Pas si bien	A man needs a new liver or he will die within four months ! Only a transplant from his brother can save him . Unfortunately , the two men have been at odds for ten years . Such a subject demands : - either a black humor treatment and then it takes genius to succeed in making such a story . - or an intimate rendition , displaying the subtleties of the heart and the sensitiveness . " Quelqu'un de bien " is a horrible film . Patrick Timsit is , along with the other Patrick ( Braoudé ) the worst actor of the contemporary French cinema . Jose Garcia , who gave a good performance in " Extension du Domaine De la Lutte " , is as unbearable as him . Both overplay , and as far their relationship is concerned , you can see what they are up to from a mile off . The female parts are vulgar and only decorative . Disgusting , obnoxious , awful . . .
Botched job	Dog food . Everything sucks in this so-called movie : a screenplay so hackneyed the average viewer must have seen the story a hundred times or more , flashy directing , poor acting from the leads , poor-as usual - female part whose only raison d'être is screaming . James Spader's wooden acting is absolutely awful . At the beginning of the movie , he's a deeply depressed man , living on acebutolol , seconal , you name it , unable to find the way back home ( that's what he says to his analyst ) and the following day , he turns into a dashing , dynamic elegant cop . As far the analyst is concerned , her only purpose is to provide the movie with an " intellectual " side . Keanu Reeves is totally unconvincing as the villain , , particularly when he " dances " . Some would be terrifying scenes look like spoofs on thrillers . Do not watch !
sheer rubbish	Thomas ( Elie Semoun ) is a shy computer scientist who created a virtual person called Leo from a software program . But the latter is sick of his life and years for getting out of it to explore the exterior world . One evening he manages to do so by taking the appearance of a cleaning operative ( Dieudonné ) and it's a chain of problems that awaits for Thomas . The starting point and the direction this two-bit comedy followed weren't that much fresh but at least a minimum of rigor and attention was required from the crew to make this menu watchable . But the dearth of pristine ideas touched the scenarists and the efforts deployed by the crew are hardly discernible . In short , there is strictly nothing to save from this flavorless product which lazily follows a constricting , ultra-mapped scheme . The whole affair also plumbs because of a heap of commonplaces used as bridges for a skimpy story . As if it wasn't enough , a flabby directing makes all the comical effects fall flat . Anyway , many of them are so corny and well-worn that the audience remains impassive . Elie Semoun and Dieudonné are as expressive as zombies and one can regret their one man shows . Ditto for the humorists Jean-Marie Bigard and Franck Dobosc who hold here wasted minor roles . The glaring shoddiness that wraps this film from the first minutes plunges the audience in a crushing torpor . And however , the thrust was interesting . Had it been given a better treatment . . .
A horrible , horrible , horrible movie .	Already in " Performance " and in " Don't look now " , Roeg showed a pretentious , show-off and gaudy style . The latter film was saved , however , by Daphne DuMaurier-inspired screenplay , Venice setting and Julie Christie and Donald Sutherland's skills . Here , absolutely nothing . The movie fluctuates with a complete incoherence from a genre to another . The first fifteen minutes recall some kind of remake of " Come and get it " , an old movie ( 1936 ) by William Wyler and Howard Hawks . Then it leaves the adventure films genre for the soap opera , complete with grumpy rich man ( It might be Hackman's worst movie ) frustrated wife playing tarots , rebel daughter , and French son-in-law with frame of mind ( Yes I am a coward ! ) . Then the soap opera turns into a film noir , featuring as a highlight , so to speak , a vaudou orgy . And finally what a surprise , a trial ( You could have been an artist ! , Russel says to her father's killer hubby ) The colors evoke postcards , the interpretation is either theatrical ( Russel and her mother ) or inexpressive ( Hauer , Rourke , the latter would do better with " Angel heart " ) As I said , a horrible , horrible , horrible movie .
Don't you think of watching that . !	It is not the function of this short review to comment on Frederic Dard's San Antonio books . I must confess that it is not my cup of tea and I like Dard's excellent thrillers best , some of which were transferred to the screen with a certain success ( " Le Monte-Charge " and the famous " Toi Le Venin " . ) " San Antonio Ne Pense Qu'à çà " ( the movie of course ) hits rock bottom . I do not even think that the novels lovers will get something out of it . After thirty minutes , I called it quits . Coarseness , misogyny run rampant , and this kind of show should be reserved for morons . If IMDb allowed a " minus 10 " rating , that would be mine .
Horrible film , dismal performances . .	There are French directors who dare : François Ozon is one of them , and even when he pushes his art to extreme limits ( les amants criminels ) , both his screenplay , his directing and his mastery remain powerful . This poor thing has a ghost of a screenplay , and features some of the worst performances that can be seen in a contemporary French movie : to say that the actors overplay would be an euphemism : you should ( but you must not if you are wise enough to spare you this turkey ) see them scream , grimace ( with pain ) and look " deep " . Also handicapped by frequent use of a little girl's voice over . Ugly pictures , absurd editing , obscure motives of the characters . HORRIBLE .
France , Italy and Spain team up against England .	The early sixties brought the best James Bond films , thanks to Sean Connery's incomparable charisma and humor . In their wake , a countless spate of sub-007 began to appear : OSS 117 , Coplan , and the nadir of them all : O77 ( sic ) Dick Maloy . This one was the first featuring this two-bit spy and it's really a poor man's James Bond ; to give you an idea of what's waiting for you , the hero and the villains carry an atomic bomb in a simple case ! The plot is a cock and bull story , where the characters appear and disappear , without bringing anything to the story . actually , the purpose of every scenes is to put up a fight so as to show the hero's steel fists . If you find some logic in the sequence of events , you are a genius . Another Trafalgar .
dated , dated as hell .	This is not a great French masterpiece . It's full of clichés . Most of the characters are unpleasant or ludicrous . The events of May 1968 are a vague background , with trendy words galore : revolution , nudity , freedom ( check the title ) . The hero is a sort of young bourgeois , wishing to avoid an " imitation of life " but not averse to the occasional little financial paternal help . Actually , how could he afford his own flat without it ? The longing for independence ( trying to work for the fruit crop ) is short-lived . The only reason to see the movie is the beautiful and unfortunate actress Juliette Villard who passed away a few months after the movie was released . Too bad she did not live long enough to play in a good movie . French movies buffs , avoid this piece of garbage and check out Claude Chabrol's contemporary works like " le boucher " or " la rupture " instead : you will be highly rewarded .
so as Def Leppard said " armageddon it ! " ( the movie )	Two movies : " the fifth element " , " armageddon " . The same subject : to save the world . The same main actor : Bruce Willis . One difference : " Armageddon " is very inferior to Luc Besson's film . Some spectacular special effects don't succeed in hiding a labored and globally conventional screenplay . Several parts of the movie are showing it . I think about the president's speech and especially Willis ' relationship with his daughter , " Grace " . At the beginning of the movie , he tends to neglect and overprotect her and this makes her weary . Then , at the end of the movie , it's true love and understanding that shine in him . On another hand , the movie falls in the following trap : Michael Bay takes his subject too seriously . Of course , the movie tries to be funny but the result doesn't work as the humor introduced in the movie is often crude and pretty low-level whereas in the " fifth element " , the humor was zany , involuntary and enabled to overlook the serious side of the action . The movie suffers from two other handicaps : it often falls into the ridiculous ( the Russian astronaut ) and almost all the actors are bad used . Bruce Willis is all the contrary of his " fifth element " ' s character . He plays the he-man , he hams it up and sometimes , he's unbearable . The other actors are barely credible in their own roles , particularly , Willis ' sinking crew . It seems that this crew is here just for having fun . One of them is taken for being very qualified but he looks like a fool . And poor Liv Tyler ! She's at the NASA just to be decorative . When the movie was released in France in August 1998 , Bruce Willis expressed is weariness of saving the world . His weariness was probably justified by this spectacular but poor movie .
A ( very very ) poor man's Hitchcock .	Frankly I doubt Schneider herself said that this movie " set the tone for her future roles " . If such was the case , what a poor taste she used to have . Actually , it was rather " la piscine " made the year before , that boosted her career that was on the wane after the Sissi saga ( forever my love ) . Romy Schneider teamed up again with Maurice Ronet ( who was in " la piscine " too ) , but this time with laughable results . Leonard Keigel , the director , wrote a screenplay in which the paucity of the ideas is so glaring that only a member of the audience who has never seen a Hitch , Chabrol ou Clouzot movie could enjoy this poor would - be suspense thriller . Keigel hired Chabrol's dialogue writer , Paul Guégauff : probably horrified by the emptiness of the story , he made up for it with a lot of swear-words . I wonder why talented actors like Ronet and Schneider agreed to make such a bomb ; besides , the supporting actors do not " support " at all : Keigel's wife , Simone Bach and Gabriele Tinti , sink into utterly ridiculous ham . The songs , in English ( " who are you " ) sung by a Dutch band , Wallace Collection , would nicely fit in a commercial for Martini . The critical reception was so disagreeable in France at the time ( " a film made of brics , bracs and thingummies " ) that Keigel was not to made another movie before 1977 . And it was his last one .
And Bardot created Vadim .	Brigitte Bardot must have had a very strong personality to make " and God created woman " the smash hit it was at the end of the fifties . Vadim / Bardot , it's Pygmalion in reverse : an actress who had un petit je ne sais quoi who created the worst director of the whole nouvelle vague . Vadim made half a dozen of movies with BB , each one lousier than the one before . This one takes the biscuit : not only a good cast is wasted ( Robert Hossein , Matthieu Carrière , Maurice Ronet , Jane Birkin ) but most of the time , the movie and BB's lines are unintentionally funny : how can we take seriously this priest , BB's cousin ? the macho Hossein and his wife who discovers Sapphic pleasures with Jeanne / Don Juan ? One cannot even call this farce " woman's lib " because Jeanne is chastised for having been a bad gal , like the true Don Juan . NB : It's BB last real film ; afterwards , she was to appear in a small part in " l'histoire très bonne et très joyeuse de Colinot Trousse-Chemise " ( 1973 ) , which , in spite of its title , was neither " très bonne " nor " très joyeuse " . Then it was silence . Outside Garbo , there's no other example of an actress , still young ( BB was 39 ) , who calls it quits at such an early age . She became an animal rights activist - and still is - .
a movie full of mediocrity	Just a short and basic review about this turkey and a positive one ! But fortunately three unfavorable votes . The person who wrote it must have few demanding tastes as regards cinema . Let's take the year 1997 . If I had to retain the most outstanding young people movie of the year in the positive sense of the word , I would choose the hypnotic and piercing " Life of Jesus " by Bruno Dumont , a ruthless chronicle about young people trapped in their small city of Bailleul , without future . It's a work with an undeniable artistic weight . What about the worst young people movie of the year ? Well it's this dud : " four boys full of future " ! It occupies a first-choice place in which the young people movie ( even French comedy ) can offer worst and I think that the current mark ( 6 . ) is too much high for such a piece of garbage which flounders between vulgarity and flabbiness , drivel and commonplaces . The title itself of the movie is quite meaningless . There are indeed four boys who are the main protagonists of the film but what is their future made of ? At a pinch , it could be attributed in an ironical way to Arnaud . There's a blatant absence of directing and the director Jean Paul Lillienfield contents himself to record execrable dialogs . Three scriptwriters including the director gathered to produce a two-bit and skimpy story with a more than meager potential . It gives the impression of having been written in a slapdash manner without the single hint of rigor . It never takes off , includes what seem to be parodical components of the teenage movie , elements which have nothing to do here . There are also snatches of " les Sous Doués " ( 1980 ) by Claude Zidi . It wasn't a masterwork but at least Zidi's flick made us sometimes smile . To come back to the story , when it seems to take a direction ( Arnaud's mates who decide to help him ) , it is drowned in a spate of implausibilities and of course , the happy end is " de rigor " . It's not an unfathomable cast which will make up for the extreme paucity of the script . The young comedians ' intolerable antics undermine the movie and some actors are used in an unexpected and absurd way . Why Thierry Lhermitte ( also producer ! ) in the role of a cop ? Without mentioning an atrocious Patrick Sébastien who reveals here , in all its splendor his more than restrained gifts as an actor . A superb hash of money for this incredible drivel which makes me sick . Yuk ! You understood it : it's the kind of movie to skip at all costs . If you're looking for a valuable entertaining movie , please pass by and if you can , try to watch the movie I mentioned in the beginning of my review : " the Life of Jesus " .
It has to be seen to be believed ( 2 )	I used the same title for " Broceliande " which took the horrror film to new heights of stupidity . This is the worst French ( and arguably Polish ? I cannot judge for that matter ) thriller that has ever been filmed to date , even beating the worst photocopies of " silence of the lambs " the likes of " les rivières pourpres " or " les morsures de l'aube " . It's a shame to take such a serious subject ( snuff movies ) and give it such a couldn't-care - less treatment . It's mindless and irresponsible to turn something unbearable into a pure entertainment movie . Alejandro Amenabar , when he made his highly superior " Tesis " did not fall into this trap ! Even " 8mm " ( with Nicholas Cage ) is a masterpiece compared to this piece of trash . The cast is abysmal ; the two cops are ridiculous : one of them is supposed to provide the movie with a comic relief but we do not even know which one ; the muscle man , who is supposed to be the hero-with-a - painful - past is perhaps worse than his so-called comic partner who treats ( sic ) whores as princesses and princesses as whores . Poland has got to find another country to team up with if they wanttheir cinema to gain a huge international audience . Why not Spain ?
Wrong turn indeed !	This is the kind of flick the horror movie buff has already seen a hundred times or more . A parboiled cross between " the Texas chainsaw massacre " and " Friday the thirteenth " and . . . . . . . . ( fill in the blank ) . Good-looking boys and girls meet horrible blood thirsty monsters ( shall we call them men ? ) . Can someone tell me why the villains are almost always ( very ) ugly and the victims are always hunks and babes ? One can save , at a pinch , a good moment : it happens when the desperate group take refuge on the watchtower ( which is at once a refuge and a place from which you can't escape ) . During these precious minutes , the viewer feels ill-at-ease and can identify with them . As for the rest , as I cannot say something nice . . . .
worth seeing for its special effects	Who has ever dreamt of making a movie which the action would take place during our era with dinosaurs in the main roles . Steven Spielberg must have had the idea by thinking : " it would get a huge commercial success . . . " . He aimed straight . Indeed , a few months after the launch of the movie in 1993 , the movie beat the record of the box-office takings so far hold by E . T . by the same Spielberg . But this commercial triumph is especially due to a great marketing campaign organized around the movie . Like " Batman " , " Jurassic Park " ranks among the movies that made a dramatic commercial way , mainly due to a strategic marketing campaign but which the movie , in itself , is devoid of interest . The movie , actually , is worth seeing for its dramatic special effects ( thanks to them , the movie won three Oscars in Hollywood in 1994 ) . They can only encourage admiration and take the breathe away . Spielberg only intervened the most famous species of dinosaurs such as the tyrannosaurus and I think it's a pity that you don't see many other species . For example , you don't see the pterodactyl . Besides , you could say that dinosaurs were the sole attraction of the movie for an important number of spectators and it's why the movie attracted masses of people in theaters when the movie was released . But if you take away this quality , the movie appears devoid of interest . The scantiness and the lack of inspiration of the screenplay are something that you feel . The screenplay follows an outline quite predictable : it starts with the explanations concerning the creation of the park and especially the dinosaurs ( well done , nevertheless to he scriptwriters who could show cleverness concerning the artificial birth of the dinosaurs . Then , the movie goes on with the visit and the discovery ( inconclusive as dinosaurs don't appear ) of the park and this is where problems appear ( otherwise the movie wouldn't have existed ) : a storm is breaking , a bad engineer is switching the current off to steal dinosaurs embryos for his personal interests . More serious , dinosaurs are getting away and spreading panic among the visitors . . . . You can also notice that the screenplay contains several silly cues and characters appear colorless . They are overburden by dinosaurs that are real stars of the movie . it also doesn't succeed in hiding a few unlikelinesses : Tim , one of the two children is victim of a strong electric shock and however Sam Neil manages to save him ! Moreover , Tim's sister succeeds in locking a dinosaur up in a room thanks to a code which is however , hard to get . So , children are in the depths of these unlikelinesses and it probably reflects Spielberg ' tender look of childhood . At the end , " Jurassic Park " is definitely one of Spielberg's worst movies .
A school teacher asks his students ( about 11 ) to write an essay . . .	He asks them to locate the story in Central Europa in the early Middle Ages . And what he gets . . . is not far from what the " scriptwriters " produced here . A voice - over begins a little " cultural " presentation : " in those ancient times , no one was spared : old men , women , children , blah , blah , blah , all was violence , crimes and rapes , blah , blah , blah , they were all barbarians . . . . Toryok ( Edmund Purdom , " the Egyptian " , who later got lost in Italian turkeys ) , is a brave king whose wife was raped and killed by the wicked Kovo ( both look the part ) . When his enemy comes back , he leads his village in a war ( in spite of his brother's and his sweet wife's disapproval . ) The story was so poor and so thin that the director had to fill the time with boring dances and endless fights and battles . Rossana Podesta ( " la red " and Wise's " Helen of Troy " ) is Kovo's fiancée but she will fall in love with . . . ( guess ! )
Living a wild life	This film aka " the four hundred blows " is a mistranslation . Faire les 400 coups " means " to live a wild life . As a French , I'm stunned when I see the popularity of this good , but by no means outstanding film . 1 . It's not the first film of the " nouvelle vague " move ; check Agnes Varda's " la pointe courte " , ( 1956 ) Alain Resnais's " Hiroshima mon amour " ( 1958 ) , Claude Chabrol's " le beau serge " ( 1958 ) are anterior . Historically , " les 400 coups " comes after . 2 . The " nouvelle vague " was sometimes ponderous and hard on their predecessors : Overnight , Julien Duvivier , Henri-George Clouzot , Claude Autant-Lara , Yves allégret and a lot of others were doomed to oblivion . THis selfishness and this contempt is typically " nouvelle vague " . You ' ve never heard ( or read ) the great generation of the thirties ( Renoir , Carné , Grémillon , Duvivier already , Feyder ) laugh at , say , Maurice Tourneur or Max Linder . So , thanks to Truffaut and co , some people will never discover some gems of the French fifties or forties ( Duvuvier's " sous le ciel de Paris " , Autant-Lara's " douce " , Yves Allégret's " une si jolie petite plage " and " manèges " ) . THe novelle vague clique went as far as saying that William Wyler , Georges Stevens and Fred Zinemann were worthless ! 3 . " Les 400 coups " is technically rather disappointing : it's very academic , the story is as linear as it can be , the teachers are caricatures , and the mother Claire Maurier delivers such memorable lines as ( you've got to be a French circa 1960 to understand how ridiculous it is ) : Well , your father ' s got only his brevet ( junior school diploma ) and , as for me , I've got only my high school diploma ! You've got to know , that circa 1960 , hardly 10 % of the pupils had the HSD in France ! Antoine Doinel should have been proud of his mother after all ! She wants him to have diplomas , who can blame her ? 4 . Compared to the innovations of " Hiroshima mon amour " , which features a brand new form , and a new " fragmented " content , " les 400 coups " pales into significance . Truffaut will master a new form only with the highly superior " Jules and Jim " , helped by the incomparable Jeanne Moreau . 5 . The interpretation is rather stiff ; Jean-Pierre Léaud , arguably listenable when dubbed in English , is still decent , but he will soon degenerate into the most affected of his generation . 6 . The topic = stolen childhood had better days , before ( Julien Duvivier's " Poil de carotte " , Luis Bunuel's " los olvidados " ) and will have after ( Maurice Pialat's " l'enfance nue " , Kenneth Loach's " Kes " ) I do not want to demean Truffaut , his movie is not bad , but , frankly , French movie buffs , prefer " Jules and Jim " " l'enfant sauvage " ( a film honest , true and commercially uncompromizing to a fault ) " l'argent de poche " ( as academic as " 400 coups " but much more funny ) or his nice Hitchcock pastiche " vivement dimanche " .
Hooper , the body snatcher .	The eighties were really a hard time for sci-fi . Caught between children trivia and horror / gore , the genre produced horrible movies . Here's a good example . The magpie syndrome is rampant as ever : snatches of " alien " , " night of the living dead " , many a vampire movie , and of course , a big hunk of " invasion of the body snatchers " . Misogyny seems here to stay all along the show , and it paved , so to speak , a reliable way for " species " and " species 2 " , two more bombs in the second half of the nineties . Tobe Hooper began with a commandable movie " the Texas chain saw massacre " Not great , but watchable . " Funhouse " and " poltergeist " already sucked . And with this one , all the hopes have gone down the drain . Avoid .
Frankenstein 0	Alain Jessua took a wrong turn from this movie onwards . All he did before was perfectly acceptable ( " Les Chiens " " Armaguedon " and even highly commendable ( " Traitement de Choc " ) Alain Jessua is one of of the rare French directors who has broached the fantasy and horror genre . In " Traitement de Choc " he tackled the absorbing subject of the fountain of youth : as it happens , the migrant workers used as " material " to rejuvenate the wealthy bourgeois ; there was something of Mary Shelley there ; then in his overlooked 1981 " Le Paradis Pour Tous " , a shrink sold a treatment-to-be-happy to his patient , no matter if they lost their personality in the process ; this time again , Jessua showed that Man must not change Man as God or the Big Bang made him . All that just shows how Jessua was the ideal French director to update the myth of Frankenstein . So it may have been , but if so it signally fails in his purpose . Perhaps Jessua's worst film , this " 90 " version ( what a stupid title ! ) cheapens Shelley's work with a screenplay which is a real hodgepodge that's completely unwatchable next to the director's best works . By and large , Jean Rochefort is a very reliable actor , but he is inefficient here . But if he is bad , pop singer Eddy Mitchell is worse , which tends to prove that singers are rarely good actors ( with notable exceptions of course : Frank Sinatra ; Charles Aznavour ) : his performance as the creature is a disaster , but he is not the sole responsible : it's an absurd thing to make the creature speak as you and me , to take " it " to the pictures to watch Whale's " Frankenstein " . At least , for a very short while , while these black and white pictures from 1931 are on the screen , we are back in the world of true cinema .
C'est Le Casse De Brice	In 1995 , Jean Dujardin organized his first shows around a character he knew when he was in high school entitled Brice . The latter took himself for someone witty , clever and whose formidable verbal words helped him to maintain respect around him . Dujardin kept him in memory to create an eternal teenager and a dreamy rich kid , fond of surfing who's waiting for his hour glory . " Brice De Nice " was one of the most profitable movies in 2005 from a commercial perspective . Artistically , well it's another story . The main problem with James Huth's effort or rather Dujardin's ( the director contents himself with shooting without the single directing idea and it's the star who holds the reins ) is that it has strongly the look of a stretched sketch to make a one hour and a half film . It means that a few jibes can be funny for a short time and it's a mistake to believe they that can be the only reliable supplier of laughter for a thin story . Hello weariness ! To flesh out ( so to speak ) the whole , comes a two-bit subplot in the second half between Clovis Cornillac and Elodie Bouchez and superfluous filler ( the sequence in the bank turned into a pseudo musical . By the way , the song " C'est Le Casse De Brice " was bound to be a big hit in France ) . Even with the adoption of a deliberately schoolboy tone , the whole doesn't take off on the crest of the waves but sinks at the bottom of the sea . To appreciate " Brice De Nice " is like to appreciate the hilarious sitcom : " Un Gars , Une Fille " : in small doses . Besides , Alexandra Lamy has a cameo in Huth's effort . As for Dujardin , he has real actor skills and proved it with his aforementioned shows and the quoted sitcom but also in cinema with " OSS 117 : Le Caire Nid D'Espions " ( 2006 ) , he nearly grabbed the César for French Best Actor this year with this role . But , here , it's not a film he would put on top of his CV . Anyway , teenagers or little demanding viewers will love this one .
It has to be seen to be believed ! ! !	Really ! Here the French cinema hits rock bottom , and compared to it , the least appealing of the American adolescent horror movies , the likes of " Friday the thirteenth " " Freddy " and co are masterpieces of the seventh art . It's all the more infuriating as there were exciting original elements : the forêt de Brocéliande and its legends , the druids and King Arthur , all were splendid assets for a dreamlike fantasy and horror film . Alas ! Filmed , as an user aptly pointed out in a fake forest , near Paris , the movie is fake horror , fake Celtic history , fake vestiges - you should see the professor ( Wilms who was a wonderful M . Le Quesnoy in " la vie est un long fleuve tranquille ) scream for the " invaluable scrap " - which the production probably bought in a dime store-fake characters , fake excavations . . . The boys disguised as druids are unintentionally very funny ; so are the girls who seem to be experts in martial arts . And what can we say of the professors ? of the monster ? A ten year old would write a better screenplay than this grotesque farce . To think that people can spend money for such drivel when artists are still waiting for a producer ! Word to the wise : Maurice Leblanc wrote a marvelous story dealing with druids and old ceremonies in his Arsene Lupin saga called " l'île aux trente cercueils " . A miniseries was made 30 years ago . Avoid this " Broceliande " garbage and try to see it instead .
Abysmal	" Joe Caligula " was reportedly forbidden by the censorship at the same time as Jacques Rivette's " la religieuse ' , but not for the same reasons . " Joe Caligula " anticipated Quarantino's extreme violence by more than thirty years . That does not make it a good movie for all that , by a long shot . It is actually one of the worst French duds I have ever seen . The credits go as far as claiming this : If John Ford is Homer ( why not after all ? the great director compares favorably with the Greek poet ) , then José Bénazéraf is . . . . . ( you'll never guess it ) Marcel Proust . Well , if it is so , then Ed Wood is Shakespeare . Bénazéraf is known ( but only by people who like that kind of stuff ) for his porno movies which were to follow in the wake of " Joe " : many scenes of this movie verge on porno anyway : strip tease , nude women in bed . . . Well if Howard Hawks depicted Scarface as some kind of Borgia , why not Caligula for a young crook ? The problem lies in the fact that Joe has absolutely nothing to do with the Roman emperor . Played by the late Gérard Blain , who was a commendable actor when there was a Duvivier , a Chabrol or a Wenders to direct him , but here sank without a trace . Ditto for Ginette Leclerc , who was formerly directed by Pagnol , Clouzot and Duvivier ! The rest of the cast is zombie-like , particularly the female lead Jeanne Valérie . The script is so dismal that the actors often repeat their lines twice , five times and even more ! When the starlet in tears tells the story of her lover ( or husband who cares ) who was burnt alive ( and is still burning , she points out ) , it is unintentionally highly comic . The story ? well I shall now come to the question : Bénazéraf pits Joe and his young pack against a bunch of " old " gangsters and their molls . There's no more to say . That such a turkey can be mentioned in " Guide des Films " , the Bible of the French cine buff ( and granted one star at that ! ) is beyond me .
Avant-garde ? Isn't it the French word for c . . . ?	That's what John Lennon once said . Themroc is would be avant-garde , but only for these who have a short memory . Take the beginning of the movie : these herds going to work , the hero's tiny and seedy flat , they already were in King Vidor's " the crowd " ( 1928 ) . Actually Claude Faraldo contents himself with recycling the most dated clichés of the post May 68 era : down with the bosses , power to the people , kill ( and eat ) the cops , this is a brand new life , opportunity knocks , make love not war , we are the good guys , the others are the villains , please get out of the new road if you can't lend a hand , and so on . Spitting on the cops was so à la mode that Faraldo could not be wrong while speaking to the intellectual post 68 elite : humble people are actually demeaned in his film . How to attract people's attention ? Which form should he use ? That's Faraldo's lucky break ! No form at all , a formless product . So it seems that he has filmed haphazardly , then asked his editor to work in a " surrealistic " way ( He was not aware that Luis Bunuel had already done that , as far as editing is concerned - un chien andalou ( 1928 ) l'âge d'or ( 1930 ) ; his movies were as subversive as Faraldo's , and at a time when it was not that much trendy . Bunuel wasn't born to follow ) . People who like this - and they seem to be quite a lot - should catch Jacques Doillon ' s " l'an 01 " , which deals with the same clichés , but which is less pretentious : it could be , relatively speaking , a seventies update of Jean Renoir's " la vie est à nous " ( 1936 ) .
How the French cinema lost its innocence . . .	François Ozon , one of the most talented contemporary French directors , told once he did not care about the nouvelle vague . With notable exceptions ( Demy , Malle , Chabrol ) , I do not either . The nouvelle vague and particularly Godard were the so called saviours of a moribund cinema . Some critics talked about the fascist arrogance of those young Turks and I can find little fault with the opinions expressed . " Before us ( nouvelle vague ) , there was a difference of quality between a Renoir and a Duvivier movie ; now , there's also a difference of nature " It's talking nonsense . " A bout de souffle " features a plot which finds a lot of its inspiration in the American film noirs , it's not bad , but anyway , it's not the story that counts , it's the form . But this art is pretty arty , and all that made the French cinema great : painstaking cinematography , strong screenplays , in a nutshell what made cinema magic , par excellence the show , almost everything was swallowed by the " wave " . " A bout de souffle " ( breathless ) was probably a metaphor of the " old hat " cinema which Godard despised . Its release had an unfortunate outcome : great directors like Duvivier and Carné were relegated to purgatory even their finest works , and the French fifties were buried ; nowadays , critics tend to restore to favour this overlooked era . We can give the film credit for the actors : both Belmondo and Jean Seberg were excellent . But this would be milestone in cinema history is a good example of how smart artists can manipulate the crowds .
Nightmare : not a misnomer .	This movie itself is a nightmare : I dare you to stay till the end . The story is so muddled and the treatment so dull that one wonders why money can be spent to produce such duds . The late Pierre Clementi , dressed as a chauffeur during the whole film , is chasing a girl who was a famous virtuoso and who disappeared after a car wreck . Flashbacks here and there tell us she had a brother , a musician too , who died in the accident ( or killed by the villains ? ) Clementi kills all those who are unfortunate enough to hang around the cafe where the heroine accompanies a chanteuse on the piano ( played by a true chanteuse , Monique Morelli : her song is the only good moment in the whole flick ) . The screenplay includes Belgian comic strips , educated barflies , pimps and hookers , unscrupulous producers ( ? ) , and fills its quota of blood ( but sex is almost absent ) .
Worst French movie of all time ?	This one is a strong contender . It was based on a comic strip which everyone has forgotten today . I've never read it , but if it is as subtle as the film , I do not miss an awful lot . The main reason for which this flick is sought is Louis de Funes ' s presence : he portrays a violin teacher with a very long beard ( which predates Rabbi Jacob ? ) . The rest consists of grotesque gags , lines for mentally retarded persons , vulgar jokes . I dare you to watch this dud till the end . I called it quits halfway through . This is the only feature film by Marcel Gibaud whose shorts , they say , are interesting .
Maffia and melodrama .	This movie is a jumble , a dreadful pot-pourri of incompetent playing ( Béatrice Dalle , in a pointless part ) , writing ( as many plot holes as in Swiss cheese ) and scoring ( syrupy strings , angelic hymns or Italian solo singer ) . The only reason to watch this movie is Raf Vallone's performance . He is no longer the handsome man he used to be but he retains charisma , humor and mischievousness . The maffia stuff has become a hackneyed topic nowadays . It's not the final melodramatic coup de théâtre ( predictable anyway ) that can save such a " déjà vu " story . Do not mistake this 1999 movie for the eponymous Jean Renoir classic ( 1934 ) ; and , no , it's not a remake .
Those were the days	This is exactly the kind of movie the Nouvelle Vague made possible . Probably inspired by some aspects of Godard's notorious " Masculin / Feminin " , it represents all that I hate in the French cinema . Probably inspired by real-life " teenage idols " , these three pitiful " singers " make the viewer turn a deaf ear to the music they play and sing ( which is some kind of parboiled cross between a poor man's Velvet Underground - and I like this group - and histrionic vocals ) . To be successful , such a movie demands precision - what the Rutles did with the Beatles , for instance - , a great sense of humor , a rebellious mind devoid of clichés ( the only moment that politically succeeds is Charlie's problems with the draft ; during those precious minutes , I did think the movie was going somewhere ) . The French " teenage idols " period was the early sixties . The 1962-1965 was the " yeah yeah " boys and girls heyday . Although some of them survived , from 1966 onwards , some real artists ( Jacques Dutronc , Julien Clerc , Michel Polnareff ) began to emerge . Charlie is a distant relative of Johnny Halliday , but Gigi does not look like France Gall , Serge Gainsbourg's Lolita . And it's an insult to mention the Beatles as far as Simon is concerned . There is also a hint at " Soeur Sourire " , who hit the US charts as " the singing nun " in 1964 . Proof positive that the story belongs to the first half of the sixties . All the actors overplay . Pierre Clementi could have been a good thespian , had he had more Bunuel and Deville ( and less so - called avant-garde ) ; Bulle Ogier is , depending on whom you ask , either sublime or atrociously unbearable , some kind of female Jean-Pierre Leaud . Jean-Pierre Kalfon is more restrained , be he blessed just for that . Les Idoles : a relic , a failed spoof ; take Watkins's " Privilège " instead .
When I was a child , I used to read Iznogoud stories . . . .	. . . . and how much did I love them ! Goscinny and Tabary used to work wonders for there was only one plot : the Grand Vizir Iznogoud wants to get rid of the caliph and be caliph himself ; but every time they came up with funny new situations , hilarious puns and a lot of black humor . Patrick Braoudé completely butchered Iznogoud . He's got a lot of nerve to dedicate his piece of junk to Goscinny and Tabary ! The lines are vulgar , full of saucy innuendos ( whereas the comic books never deal with sex even to the lesser extent ) . The songs are abysmal and essentially filler : the reworking of " Pretty woman " is an insult to the great Roy Orbison . It's really too bad for the late Jacques Villeret : the caliph part was tailor-made for him and had he worked with a clever director , he could have succeeded in his portrayal . As I cannot say something nice about the rest of the cast . . . . Now do yourself a favor and read again one of those wonderful comics .
Worst French prison movie ever ?	Jacques Becker's " le trou " is generally looked upon as the best French prison movie ever . This one is the nadir of this kind of stuff . I do not know who could do worse . Jacques Becker's grande oeuvre avoided all the clichés : the wardens were not the baddies for instance . Claude Brasseur's homosexual sadistic brute is cliché itself . How could this thespian agree to play such a demeaning part ? It seems that one man out of two is gay in this clink ! the others are either " innocent " Arabs ( but the scenarists quickly abandon them to their sad fate ) or lunatics ( a guy is always singing a Michel Polnareff-french singer of the sixties - tune , using a pipe end as a microphone ) . A drag queen spends the WHOLE movie in the solitary , actually a real dungeon , without light ! : Amnesty International where were you when we needed you ? Even Jose Giovanni , who wrote the screenplay for " le trou " and who spent some time in jail in his youth never went as far as that when he depicted the hell of the French prisons . Actually the director was looking towards Quentin Tarantino for violence models .
Trash trash trash	Charley Boorman , who plays the villain ( and I mean villain ) , is John Boorman's son , but it is a far cry from " Esmerald forest " ! A trashy movie dealing with trash ! This is the kind of movie which should be burned . In the Middle Ages , the " director " , Jean Claude Roy ( who essentially made porno movies ) , would have been put in the stocks . " Massacres " deals with the awful subject of snuff movies . Although many characters are French ( as Roy is himself ) , the action takes place in Korea ( of course such things could not happen in a civilized country such as Roy's homeland ) . The filmed deaths make the viewer a peeping tom although the directing is so dismal it looks like a farce ( which it is not ) as three hooded men rush towards the victim . In Korea , French ( ? ) police captain ( the late Pierre Clementi : how could a man who worked with Luis Bunuel - " Belle de Jour " - have sunk so low ? ) and his men shoot without warning ! Rest in peace , counterfeiters ! Up comes a bubble head journalist moaning : " I do not approve of your methods , captain " . Sweet litotes ! Deserves to be part of the bottom 100 of French movies .
The nadir of the French psychological thriller .	Thirty years later , this movie tries to capture the atmosphere of the great Clouzot , Duvivier and Decoin film noirs of the forties and fifties . But it's wishful thinking . Because no one is HG Clouzot except HG Clouzot and do not expect the return of " diabolique " . Besides , novelist Sebastien Japrisot is one of the worst suspense writer France has ever known , and he's no match for Boileau-Narcejac , Simenon or Frédéric Dard . Such horrors like Litvak's " la dame dans l'auto avec des lunettes et un fusil " and Clement's " la course du lièvre à travers les champs " ( check the pretentious titles ! ) suffice to demonstrate this . With its " terrible past " flashbacks , its amateurish performances ( Alain Souchon , a good singer but a poor actor ) , and Isabelle Adjani who tries to make up for the paucity of ideas by showing up completely naked ( because of the heat of the Summer maybe ) , the movie can convince someone who has not seen a Hitchcock movie yet . But is there a thriller buff who hasn't ? The story is inept , complicated instead of complex . " L'été meutrier " was one of the greatest hits of the eighties French box-office , but the critics were tepid . Quite rightly so . Note : director Jean Becker is none other than Jacques Becker's ( casque d'or " " Goupi mains rouges " " le trou " and other great classics ) son . Like father , like son , definitely not .
she didn't and she won't change my life	This movie is at number 14 in the top 250 . It was nominated in several categories for the oscars by March 2002 . All around the world , Amélie Poulain elated millions of people . The question I ask myself is this one : why did this film make millions of people so happy ? I saw it last year at the cinema ; it's not that I didn't like it , it left me indifferent and I watched it very carelessly . A naive girl whose name is Amélie Poulain discovers what her destiny is : make people happy . She'll succeed in before she falls in love with a man ( Mathieu Kassovitz ) . I think it's a lacklustre and dull film . The screenplay isn't very entertaining and it looks as if there is no plot . The main thema of the movie , which is for Amélie to make people happy , is more sketched out than really explored . Moreover , the dialogues are vain and most of the characters are talking for nothing . Above all , several sides of the film didn't please me , especially its humor . The movie wants to be funny but according to me , the humor usually falls flat and sometimes it can fade into the heaviness like the love scene in the cafe . There is something that I don't like in the Amélie Poulain's character ; I think she is dope , a bit dumb and she's got very odd thoughts ( how many couples will have an orgasm in the next second ! ! ! ) . Besides , the actors aren't very great . I mean that they aren't very well defined . We learn what they like or don't like but for most of them , their tastes or hates are only tics ( like Jamel Debbouze who cherishes fruits and vegetables because he's a greengrocer ) . On the other hand , some elements of the film are useless and barely bring interest to the movie , I think about Amélie's father who loves his garden gnome , or the old man who tries hard to reproduce Renoir's painting " le déjeuner des canotiers " . To sum up : Amélie's destiny's got nothing fabulous and it's a film that lacks of poetry and is a speading of clever visuals and ringing brainwaves .
The most overrated French movie of all time ?	This one is a strong contender ! Romy Schneider was highly praised ( and granted a Cesar ) for her " harrowing " part but Zulawski is definitely a deeply boring terribly pretentious director . Outside Schneider , the casts includes zombie Dutronc who portrays a totally unconvincing character with suicidal tendencies and Fabio Testi , one of the worst Italian actors . The plot is very trite but it is given a " meaningful " " intellectual " treatment whose purpose is to make the audience feel they have watched an " important " work . Nadine Chevalier was Schneider's answer to those who thought she was still their Sissi . I'm not an intellectual : I like Sissi best .
There's no accounting for taste .	I guess I will be the only one to put disparagement on this beloved work which anybody on the site praises to the skies . Frankly I do not like it , not at all . POSSIBLE SPOILERS : the screenplay is not that much strong , and the suspense is not really here . The first hour is boring and what remains is a spate of clichés : best / worst example : the killer , leaving " clues " on the dead body , I've seen it ( and read it ) so many times that it leaves me amazed : how can a writer , fifty years or so after Agatha Christie and co , still think of a such hackneyed idea ? Giving the killer's identity or the key to the mystery half an hour or more before the ending can be rewarding ( such was the case in " vertigo " ( 1958 ) ) , but here , it destroys any fear : who could reasonably think that the hero - and his girl-could be really in jeopardy after that ? Only a whodunit could sustain the interest till the very end . But there's something more annoying : one of the characters is unbearable , the notorious Jens : the scene in the restaurant with the prostitute makes me sick : this bourgeois student really demeans this girl thanks to the power of his dough . Seeing him humiliate this human being while taking out his banknotes is one of the most despicable scenes I've seen in years ; and that does not make the " hero " - who's watching - nicer either . Besides guess who will be sacrificed when the others will survive ? Another gratuitous scene which comes at the most awkward moment involves Jens and his priest girlfriend in the church . It's really nauseating . That makes the very last scene even more disgusting . And you know , I ' m far from being holier-than-thou . I know a lot of people will disagree . . . but once more , there's no accounting for taste .
space ( I believe in )	One of the biggest hits of the year 1996 ( especially in the USA ) but certainly not one of the finest science-fiction movies ever made . The sole advantage of the movie rests in the special effects that are really impressive ( the gigantic spacecraft ) . But the assets of Roland Emmerich's movie stop here . Then , " Independence day " accumulates the faults that damages the interest of the movie . First of all , " Independence day " wavers constantly between the science-fiction but also the disaster film . But the main problem of the movie is definitely the script . It's a weak and ridiculous script that alternates borrowings : " Alien " ( the physical appearance of the extraterrestrials ) , " Star Wars " ( the pursuit between the flying saucer and Will Smith's plane ) , " the day the Earth stood still " ( 1951 ) and homages : " War of the worlds " , 2001 : a space odyssey " ( when Jeff Goldblum turns on his portable computer , this is " HAL 9000 " that appears on the screen ! ) . In the long run , the movie's got nearly nothing new and it easily falls into the stereotypes of science-fiction . It's hackneyed and not inventive at all . This is also a movie spoiled by an atrocious performance of nearly all the actors , especially the minor roles . Moreover Roland Emmerich's crew wanted to introduce humor so as to avoid to tell too seriously the story . A good idea but the humor doesn't fly high and it's sometimes very crude . An average and pretentious movie .
the toilets were closed from the inside	This is Patrice Leconte's very premier film as a filmmaker and I hate to say this for a director I admire : it's a total failure at all levels . It's evident here that Leconte was trying to handle the rules of long feature movie and probably felt uncomfortable with it . On a simple , oddball detective story , the filmmaker seemed to have designed his work as a comic strip with incongruous elements to give it an absurd feeling but the result doesn't work . On the paper , it would have been funny to read this kind of story but Patrice Leconte didn't manage to find a cinematographic equivalent to make this comic strip alive on the screen . As for the visual offbeat effects , they fall flat and barely make an indifferent viewer smile . Don't be fooled by the presence of Jean Rochefort , one of Patrice Leconte's favorite actors , he seems to be bored and doesn't care about his role . It's necessary to say that at the time him and Leconte were not in good terms . So , imagine the vibe there was during the shooting . But Leconte will have his revenge with the sublime " Tandem " ( 1987 ) . And what about Coluche ? You'd better see him in his one-man shows . Definitely not the Leconte to start with . Only for his hardcore fans .
Young people can do as they like nowadays . . .	That's what the title means . . . Nowadays was actually 1961 . But BB was an important actress , because she created a brand new type of woman on the screen , not a bimbo as too many people think today . We cannot say the same of her ex-husband and director Vadim , with whom she made five films ( " Et Dieu créa la femme " , " Les bijoutiers du clair de lune " , " " le repos du guerrier " " Don Juan73 " and this movie ) . None of this bad lot would deserve to be watched today , if it were not for BB . " La bride sur le cou " was first directed by Jean Aurel , who wrote the screenplay , but Vadim finished and took the credit . This is a harmless comedy , with an occasional funny line . THe love and sympathy BB feels for animals emerge sometimes . An erotic dance is given the soft focus treatment , because of the censorship . Today it would not shock a ten-year-old .
SS took naïveté to new limits .	The fact that such a dud movie can be in the top 250 speaks volumes about the public's tastes . The story is mushy , maudlin to a fault , politically correct . The special effects are not that much impressive . No imagination , no humor ( unless ET ' s fancy for beer counts ) , and of course the young boy smarter than his mother . Some have gone as far as comparing ET's landing to the second coming . I'd rather see it as sci-fi Armaggedon time , when you see the decline of the genre beginning with star wars-which was a bit more imaginative than ET , at least , there was a screenplay and beautiful landscapes-This is sci-fi for kiddies or for retarded . It made a lot of bucks of course . It would .
Get " at close range " instead !	This had high intellectual pretensions . The main lead intends to give a " deep " " meaningful " rendering ( with voice over for his frames of mind naturally ) and he was certainly influenced by the fifties / sixties " method " - which , when the script and the direction were worthwhile did give stunning results ( see Clift , Newman , Winters ) . But here the story is abysmal . Besides it moves too slow , you could edit at least 20 minutes - including pointless flashbacks-and the plot line would not be changed . At times , it's very doubtful that Bruce Dern believes in his " Uncle " character and his portraying often verges on parody . An interesting side is only skimmed over : the relationship young boy / hero - if we admit that the hero is himself some kind of child - When he says to the young kid that he would let nobody do harm to him , some welcome tenderness emerges . But it's botched and only the final scene returns to it . Word to the wise : Take Foley's " at close range " instead : it has two great actors ( Christopher Walken and Sean Penn together ! ) , it's also an offbeat movie , but it's gripping , suspenseful . Here my hitchcockometer points sullenly towards zero throughout .
Beware of orphans !	SPOILERS That could be the obnoxious moral of this story . And long live the family ! When a whole family is involved , any suspense disappears . What could happen to these nice people ? Which is less likeable is the necessity to find victims somewhere else : if you're not part of the Family , they make sure you die : it's a wonder that Margot survives ( and she was a naughty girl at that in the first part ! ) . But as for the gentle boyfriend , the cops who come to the rescue , the dog of the family and of course the villain and his pack , the die is cast . There's one interesting moment and you think that things will take off : the scene where Wahlberg insults Petersen indicates what a heterical movie this could have been . Instead we have a humdrum work , barely made-for-TV quality . The main character is an orphan , and for the script writers , this accounts for his perversity : nobody tries to see more . But he acts as a expiatory victim : the family , who had problems at the beginning , comes out of this ordeal with increase stature . Mindless and irresponsible .
The collector hits the road	Although this is a road movie , Lenzi's screenplay ( Lenzi takes an American name in the cast and credits of the version I saw ) is roughly a photocopy of William Wyler's impressive " the collector " ( 1965 ) with snatches of " Psycho " ( the mother ) and " Vertigo " ( how to turn a woman into another one ) thrown in . A collector who would travel all across the country , picking up girls and ( well read the plot ) . . . The dialog is most of the time funnier than it is scary , and acting is particularly poor . Some scenes such as the " beauty " contest are mostly filler . At times , it seems that Lenzi is begging to be taken seriously : there is a " poetic " scene when the " hero " helps a bird to fly away . But most of the time it is Punch and Judy level with vodka , handcuffs and pills galore . One can save , at a pinch , the scene in the drive - in where people are having fun watching a farce while horrible things happen not far from them .
Sunday , violent Sunday	Oliver Stone is keen on American football and always dreamt of devoting it a movie . In 1999 , he made his dream come true . " Any Given Sunday " is a quite successful movie about the concerned sport which is practiced at all in France . It's especially during matches that the movie becomes awesome . Stone used a lively and even violent directing and makes us share what the players of his team feel . On the outside of these stunning moments , the movie loses of its appeal and is less convincing when it aims at denouncing financial shady dealings against Al Pacino's team . Moreover , a few characters are on the edge of caricature like one of the players who wish to manage the whole team . Nevertheless , it's a movie that is pleasant enough without boredom and American football fans should probably find something in it . Terrific performance from Al Pacino .
" Rope " revisited .	Alfred Hitchcock invented any kind of thriller you could think of : he set the standards so high that any director who makes a suspense movie will be fatally compared to him . The main subject of this Bullock vehicle , all the ideas , almost everything was already in Hitchcock's classic " Rope " : the two students who commit a gratuitous crime , Nietsche's philosophy , and the clues that the boys disseminate , the Master was the first to transfer them to the screen . And with an eighty-minute movie which was a technical riveting tour de force . " Murder by numbers " does not take place in a single room , like " the rope " , mind you . And , what a supreme originality , it pits two cops against the evil youngsters ; and , you would never guess it , these two cops are very different : actually , Bullock plays the part of woman living like a man , and her partner ( Chaplin ) is as shy as a clueless girlie . The two boys ' performances are not really mind-boggling , not as good , as , say , that of Edward Norton in " primal fear " . Well , you know , " Rope " was so good . . . .
M . DeMille , where art thou ?	M . De Mille , you used to regale us with your " Samson and Delilah " or " ten commandments " . They used to say your stories were not faithful to the Holy Writ . But who cares ? Did the sultan care when Sheherazade was telling him endless stories which enthralled him ? Bruce Beresford ditches the De Mille mold and opts for a serious reading ( that's what the credits say ) of the bible : it's a very tedious flick , which gives you the feeling that you are attending an interminable Sunday school lesson . The Lord is as intractable selfish and jealous as ever . The generally gloomy atmosphere - in spite of luminous landscapes - dampens any spirits , which is a shame in the case of a movie which should enlighten its audience . Of course we've got Goliath , Samuel , Nathan , and Bathsheba - who has barely five lines to say , whereas in Henry King's " David and Bathsheba " ( 1951 ) , Susan Hayward got the lion's share . Richard Gere's wooden acting does not help . It's a boring movie .
A waste of breath .	This is the kind of movie which shows the paucity of French cinema when it comes to making thrillers . The director's desire to " sound American " is so glaring that you will not be fooled a minute , unless you have not seen a serial killer movie since " Peeping Tom " . Two male cops ( or one and a half , more like , as you will see ) , horrible murders , a plot more complicated than complex . Charles Berling is not lucky with the genre ( see the astoundlingly dumb " l'inconnu de Strasbourg " a couple of years ago ) . The scenes with his pregnant wife - which are supposed to be a counterpart for the otherwise noir atmosphere of the rest of the plot-are among the worst ever filmed . Add a steamy love scene between them and a gory autopsy to get a PG 12 and thus to attract the huge adolescent audience . A violent and absurd conclusion , followed by a silent epilogue who could make a nice commercial for the côte d'azur , it's really the silence of the lame .
Nagasaki mes amours .	Shot in color , with a comfortable budget for the time " Typhon sur Nagasaki " , in spite of two great French actors is not only a disaster movie : it's also a disaster itself . After a first part , which drags on and on and on , where Marais is torn between a French journalist and a Japanese in a folklore for tourists ( complete with puppets , raw fish , etc ) , the typhoon , which anyone is expecting to enliven things a bit , was perhaps impressive at the time , but we've seen much better since and it's all terribly quaint for today's audience . Like America at the same time ( Sayonara , Tea house of the August moon ) , France tried its hand at the Japanese stuff and its effort was appalling .
Not a ghost of an idea .	John Carpenter is one of the worst directors in the fantasy and horror movies . Because of the weakness of the screenplays , of the mediocre actors he often uses ( here they are abysmal , at least " Halloween " had JL Curtis ) , not to mention the horrible scores he persists in writing . The subject of the movie had already been treated , in a much better way , in the marvelous fifties gem " forbidden planet " which I urge all the sci-fi lovers to watch . In order to enliven things a bit , Carpenter tries new tricks : for instance many fllashbacks , and the same scene viewed by different characters . He even introduces western elements ( the attack of the train ) but this is not really new , cause one of his first efforts was a " fantastic " remake of " Rio Bravo " . The only originality lies in that : women rule on Mars : it's really a matriarchy ; and all the field officers are women , men contenting themselves with junior roles . But as David Bowie sings in " life on Mars ? " : " and the movie is a saddening bore / for she's lived it ten times or more "
flashy , showy , no substance .	This is a movie made for His Majesty Gérard Depardieu , with an absurd supporting cast and lots and lots of wasted money . Depardieu is everywhere in the movie and reduces the others characters to walk-ons . Roland Joffé films everything he can , and tries to impress the audience with fireworks , audacious camera tricks , Fellini-inspired settings but he does not create anything . The Sun King is featured but he pales into insignificance , which is a shame all the same ! His brother is first shown as a wicked perverse man ( in the French tradition : for that matter , take a look at the " Angélique " series ) when the historians describe him as an admittedly gay man but a human being who was courageous , generous with the vanquished at war , and finally gentle ( see " Monsieur , frère du roi " by Philippe Erlanger ) . At least his last line shows his real nature but it's too little too late . But the biggest bomb is Tim Roth's Lauzun ! The duc de Lauzun was a Gascon , who was always cracking jokes , a bon vivant , fond of women , so insolent that he was finally sent to the Pignerol jail where he met again Vatel's former master , Nicolas Fouquet - the movie briefly hints at him - . Tim Roth's sullen face is by no means duc de Lauzun , this joker who would marry the king ' s cousin , la grande Mademoiselle , a spinster , for her dough : oddly this colorful dowager does not appear at all . Montespan , La Vallière do , but they do walk-on parts . ( Only one line each : Montespan : " I'm coming up " Vallière : ' I'm coming down " , the only touch of humor in the whole movie ) Queen Marie-Therèse is not well portrayed either : she was rather ugly , gauche and self-effacing . Here she seems to outshine Montespan , which is rather odd !
across the street , nothing new	The outset of this would-be creepy thriller starts under auspicious skies . A poor couple , Jean ( Jean-Hugues Anglade ) who is a writer , Michelle ( Clothilde Courau ) , a florist inherit as if by magic of an imposing hotel that their generous neighbor , Jean-Eudes Guillemet bequeathed them so long as they must keep the housekeeper Clémence ( Christine Boisson ) . So , they happily settle down there and of course , this gift is too good to be true . Clémence is a shady housekeeper who seems to be infatuated to Jean . The latter while searching in the murky past of the one-time owner seems to find inspiration again and becomes increasingly ominous . The frail Michelle doesn't feel reassured in this eerie mansion , doesn't trust Clémence and things get dark when her boyfriend suspects her of having deceiving him with Guillemet . . . The usual ingredients of the ominous house were unearthed again by the scriptwriter Valérie Guignabodet and it's no-use enumerating them again . From them , the director Mathias Ledoux shrouds the mansion and his film of an unsettling aura and that's all . It's well known that if the movie isn't solidly structured with a stringent , painstaking scenario and if the director lazily taps again corny directing tricks for a topic like this one , this disquieting aura may bore the average viewer and make him take to one's heels . It is sadly the case here . What doesn't redeem the minor asset I quoted earlier is that Valérie Guignabodet unlike Jean in the film seems to have faced a block to pen her script . There are snatches of " Pacific Heights " ( 1990 ) , " Rebecca " ( 1940 ) and even " the Shining " ( 1980 ) and some filler to try to stretch the movie just to make a one hour and a half film . Thus , the film fills its quota of sex . There is also a deep mystery in the story but sadly several plot holes aren't filled in a satisfying way . The whole even appears desultory and is often given a couldn't-care-less treatment by the director whom the degree of implication , here is minimal . He seems to have left the building ( you said it ! ) as soon as his two unfortunate heroes settle in their new housing . This weak degree of implication is confirmed by annoying fade-outs . They often close sequences which are with difficulty dovetailed . And the end is baffling and frustrating . It seems that the authors wanted to insert an unexpected twist because " c'est à la mode " and to show off people but it seems so far-fetched that it makes the story null . Worse , in the final sequences when José Garcia watches the video , the sound is so execrable that it is virtually impossible to catch what the two characters say to each other . Anyway , the last five minutes ruin the whole venture by an incessant flashy editing which is unsatisfying because it doesn't quite clarify the story in its entirety . Maybe the director opted for this irritating scheme to conceal the fact that this unexpected twist was perhaps void and if so , he doesn't show respect for the audience and the viewer leaves the projection with his unanswered questions . Jean Hugues Anglade and Clothilde Courau do what they can to try to save something from the wreckage , their efforts are vain . I don't know what has become of the director after this vehicle and as for Valérie Guignabodet , she was to have a stab at directing for her quirky " Monique " two years later with rather gratifying results this time .
the ruining of the potential of this story makes you look this film in anger	When Jack Nicholson is at his best , that is to say when he accepts to hold demeaning parts . Then , he is on a par with the greatest contemporary American actors . Besides , the twentieth first Century started under auspicious skies for him with first-class job in Sean Penn's " the Pledge " ( 2001 ) or " About Schmidt " ( 2002 ) by Alexander Payne . But when he is directed by a director who hasn't much caliber , he goes over the top , becomes unbearable and so falls in his most hateful traits . Maybe , the " director " Peter Segal hoped his over-the-top acting would save his flick from absolute mediocrity . A big mistake . Nicholson's exaggerated acting leaves it in here and even throws the movie off balance . His main partner Adam Sandler has great trouble to make his part count . This " Anger Management " is the first setback in his career which began in the 2000 decade . It's a shoddy , unfunny American movie which spans everything despicable in contemporary American comedy but Nicholson isn't totally responsible of this fiasco . It's just that he can't do anything with such an abysmal and wandering script or rather he does things one doesn't expect from him . Everything goes askew in this would-be droll comedy which shelters gross humor . It is mostly divided between either related to sex either of sheer bad taste . The scenario is written in a snap manner with lots of filler and which confuses every kind of humor . It gives the unfortunate impression of a hodgepodge and there are jerry-built dialogs which don't strike right . It also seems to me that Segal was off the point with his topic . To enable this comedy to take off , it would have been more appropriate to introduce a strained , edgy character who is unable to control his aggressive behavior and often in prey to wild mood swings . Timid attempts to define the subject give an inkling about what the film could have been if Segal had put more effort in it instead of giving it a couldn't care less treatment and also if Sandler had been able to shade his wooden acting . So , Nicholson announces to Sandler he has to stay with him in his apartment to help him to control his supposedly present anger . He wants to put mikes in Sandler's flat and has to follow him everywhere he goes including at the office . More acceptable efforts and less offbeat methods from Nicholson to help him to master his self-control would have been required . Alas , these ways are ditched and from the moment onwards when the two men go to Boston , the movie loses itself in ponderous digressions ( the scene with Heather Graham in the café and then at her house and especially at the Buddhist garden ) . By the way , so it's the very first sequence we see at the beginning of the film which would be responsible for Sandler ' s supposedly concealed anger . Sorry , Mr Segal but I don't think it holds water and I also find the argument provided by Nicholson to protract Sandler's anger therapy ( the example of the female checker ) unconvincing to a fault . Also one of the major flaws of " Anger Management " is Adam Sandler . He's bland as one could wish and so tantrums in an acting of this kind aren't his bag . It's virtually impossible to believe that he was aggressive towards the stewardess in the plane at the beginning of the film . Besides , we don't properly see the famous sequence . In this spate of mediocrity , there is one potable sequence which gives an idea about the adequate direction the film could have taken . David is late for work and drives as fast as he can . But Nicholson is in the car and abruptly stops the car . Sandler is uptight , in anger and his doctor proposes him to sing " I Feel Pretty " from " West Side Story " and it works well for two reasons : Sandler finds his calmness again and things are looking good . . . for a short-term effect alas ! Afterwards , it's the slump again until the end which reserves a surprise . Because " c'est à la mode " , Segal inserted an unexpected twist to justify Sandler's therapy but it's so far-fetched that it makes the film null . It also hurts to see commendable actors like John Turturro as cameos in unworthy parts of their talent unless they wanted to have a good time . And don't be fooled by the cover . Nicholson and Sandler facing and yelling at each other . If my memory serves me well , there is only one sequence of this kind in the whole film . 1h45 of tomfoolery . Sequences dovetailed in an artificial way . This is dreadful stuff and American comedy plumbers . A pox on it .
Some rubbish from the French thirties .	There are two monstres sacrés : Raimu , without his Provençal accent for a while , and Françoise Rosay . This movie is proof positive that two great thespians cannot always save a film . Based on a play , it is very bad filmed stage production . The cock and bull story involves an actress , her ex-husband , a gym teacher , her lover , a baron , her spoilt daughter who has just married one of her mom's fans ( but mom did not know he was an admirer ) . The plot revolves around cuckolds , mistaken identities , lovers and mistresses . Louis Verneuil's lines are far from Henri Jeanson . Fernand Rivers sank into oblivion .
Very unpleasant	Why on earth did Robert Hossein have to get involved in that business ? ( no pun intended , since the movie deals with big business ) . A man of taste , he probably could not say no to Sergio Gobbi , a drudge with whom he had already made dreadful flicks ( " maldonne " " le temps des loups " in the sixties ) . He had probably forgotten he too was a fine film noir director as such gems as " toi le venin " and " la mort d'un tueur " bear witness . " L'affaire " is an unpleasant mean little movie . A business man ( Hossein ) wants to take revenge on his own brother who had his family ( wife and and daughter ) killed , to latch on to the whole family business . So he begins the task , which involves man of straw , speculating on the Stock , compromising photographs , nothing new under the sun . If you want to have a look at the famous " tour d'argent " restaurant , where the villain savors caviar with a wonderful view of Notre-Dame , this dud might interest you . Otherwise , avoid this updated ridiculous " Roger la Honte " .
Nothing magic	After " les noces rouges " ( 1973 ) , began Chabrol's second period of barren inspiration . Although adapted from a Frederic Dard novel ( Robert Hossein's best film was a Dard novel : " Toi le Venin " ) , " Les Magiciens " is a mediocre movie , which was probably made to combine business with pleasure ( holidays in Tunisia in a luxury hotel ) . The plot : a conjurer explains to an idle dandy , Edouard , that he can predict a murder . Edouard will help make his prediction come true . The cast includes Jean Rochefort - a non chabrolesque actor - , Gert " Goldfinger " Froebe , one of the few foreign actors which Chabrol did not have to dub in French , and one of Bertolucci's favorites , Stefania Sandrelli . That does not make a film for all that .
exactly what the catch phrase says : the same in worse	My close relatives and friends know that Patrice Leconte has a prominent place in my straitjacket of favorite French filmmakers . I must profess that treasures like " Tandem " ( 1987 ) , " le Mari De la Coiffeuse " ( 1990 ) or " l'Homme Du Train " ( 2002 ) were pure cinematographic delights in my eyes . But in counterpart , I don't go much for the " Bronzés " saga which is supposed to be a satirical mirror of the average Frenchman . I have always deemed it as vulgar , crass and it's really a shame that in France , for many French viewers , the name of Patrice Leconte remains associated with this cult series ( for those who love it ) . There's so much to discover beyond it like the three gems aforementioned . The first two chapters were shot in 1978 and in 1979 . After that , a big proportion of viewers expected another installment . And so , Patrice Leconte and his gang of well-known French actors agreed to make a third episode . Of course , the whole crew was elated at the idea to work all together again like the good old days and I can understand ( while not sharing it ) the enthusiasm of many fans . " Les Bronzés 3 : Amis pour la vie " was perhaps the most anticipated film of 2006 . I haven't got fond memories of the first two episodes and I won't warm to the series with this third one . My estimation about it is a juxtaposition of sketches hardly dovetailed without a true unifying thread . In the middle of the film , comes a two-bit subplot whose main function is filler . Some old clichés have been seen so many time before like Bernard Morin's son who announces to his father that he's gay and of course , his father isn't prepared to accept this . Most comical effects often fall flat and are rarely efficient . Even Patrice Leconte's input in the project is absent and he doesn't seem to care about it . The actors give us their little acts but that's all . All in all , many fans of the first two films will be delighted to see these reunions and won't be hampered by the fact that the film isn't a model of cinematographic writing and this film by Patrice Leconte and his men is for them . But if some of them are curious to see what there is beyond this new trilogy ( unless a fourth episode is on the way ) in Leconte's filmography , I strongly advise them to watch the works I quoted in my first paragraph .
Second part of " les quatre Charlots mousquetaires "	Although the two movies were probably filmed at the same time , this one is certainly weaker than the first episode ( which was not much of a comic movie anyway ) . There is a rather unexciting script , since the main " interest " lies in the fact that Dumas's musketeers were wash outs and their valets the real heroes and such a subject could not be sustained over two movies . The threesome King / Richelieu / Father Joseph does not make up here for the mediocrity of the Charlots ' s acting ( the latter is almost absent ) . Josephine Chaplin is a more credible Constance Bonacieux than Raquel Welsh in Richard Lester's highly superior version . But for the rest , as I cannot say something nice . . .
There is not a single scene . . . .	. . . . that the average viewer has not seen at least ten times or more . You can see what the characters are up to next from a mile off . A nice family ( Quaid , Stone , and two lovable children ) buys a manor in ruins in order to shun the traffic , pollution and problems of the big apple . But alas the former owner of this once desirable property ( Dorf ) is not prepared to accept it . Shall I tell more ? The horrible scenesare laughable at best , particularly when the house is alive with snakes . Juliette Lewis , a very gifted actress , is wasted , which is a shame ! The screenwriter is also the producer : that must be the reason why such a lousy story was filmed . Mike Figgis had done commendable works before : " internal affairs " starring Andy Garcia notably .
the last of the famous international top-models	The story of this Ben Stiller's effort ranks among the ones that American cinema particularly has a liking for . The flawless career of a fellow at first unlikely to succeed his life but who , ultimately will have become rich , respectable and will have found his place in society . Stiller must have been influenced by this kind of story for his work . He acts Derek Zoolander , an eccentric young man who could have spent his life in poverty due to his limited intellectual faculties . But , fortunately , the world of fashion rescued him and he became a seasoned top-model . I must admit that I'm not fond of this kind of topic , very simply because it seems unlikely to me . A topic like this one prevents a movie from working well . I will attribute without any hesitation , my opinion to Stiller's movie . The absence of directing is to deplore as well as his execrable performance . By his grimaces , the way he talks , he tries to ape Jim Carrey with a much less convincing result which gives ludicrous sequences . Moreover , with " Zoolander " , Stiller's intention was to shot a satire of the world of fashion ; but this point is flown over than denounced . Sorry , Mr Stiller you missed your chance . At last , it is not a labored and inconsistent screenplay that will make up the whole . I used the term " inconsistent " because Stiller acts a so dumb character that it is nearly impossible to imagine him running a center for children who want to learn to read . Ultimately , it is a humorous piece with ponderous humor . If Ben Stiller proved himself as an actor ( although " Zoolander " doesn't belong to his major opus ) , he still has serious improvement to do at the level of directing . Really , the year 2001 wasn't a good one for American comedies . Only , Wes Anderson played his game well with the witty " the Royal Tenenbaums " that year . . .
The turning point . . . . . . and it leads to nowhere .	How not to think of Herbert Ross's " the turning point " where Ann Bancroft fulfilled her ambitions when her friend Shirley McLaine became a housewife ? Okay , the French movie has the lesbian side but even that has become so natural now ( remember Claude Chabrol's " les biches " , 1967 ) . But whereas Herbert Ross's story was interesting and entertaining , Catherine Corsini's work is stodgy , pretentious , cold and so intellectual it's sometimes unbearable . It makes me think of the worst hour of the nouvelle vague . Sure Emmanuelle Beart is a beautiful actress , but elsewhere . Pick up Claude Chabrol's " l'enfer " or FRançois Ozon's " 8 femmes " instead . Or De Palma's " Mission : Impossible " for those whose tastes run that way .
Teaming up for the worst !	Imagine that ! Two legends of the French cinema , who had never played together and who finally teamed up : Pierre Fresnay and Arletty together ! It could have been a dream . . . but it turned out to be a nightmare . The director is incapable of directing and the two stars are left to their own devices : both overact and both give dismal performances . ( and I love both of them though ) Anyway , the screenplay was uninteresting : a journalist ( Arletty ) writes inflammatory articles and the newspaper's owner , her brother ( Fresnay ) has been sent to jail six times in two years . There's also a love interest between Fresnay's daughter and a boy ( Jean-Claude Brialy ) who has got no diplomas . Brialy and Arletty became good friends during the shooting . NB : Arletty ' s part was first intended for Yvonne Printemps , Fresnay's wife , but she had health problems and had to give up .
All the fine old cannibals	The precedent user and I , we have not seen the same movie ! But there's no accounting for taste they say . Amateurish directing , horrible soundtrack , abominable performances , only the cinematography is rather decent . A cursory look at Raphael Delpart , the " director " ' s filmography : from coarse comedy to abysmal horror films ( " la Nuit de la Mort " and its doomed successor " Clash " ) , he made five films in total and that's enough ! Here Delpart's idee fixe is to be Roman Polanski : Rosemary and the cannibals . It's all there , from the first victim who writes a letter to the heroine , to the old people who give her a green beverage added with vitamins , to the nightmare which is not really one . . . You'll probably notice snatches of " Beauty and the Beast " too . Here's Delpart's first mistake : after twenty minutes , we know almost all about the plot . And it's not much of a plot . On a similar subject , Alain Jessua did a lot better with his overlooked " Traitement de Choc " . Ah ! Lemme think ! there are two unexpected twists but they come at the most awkward moment . The pictures are often disgusting and some people might go veggie after watching that . But why should they bother ?
another Claude Chabrol dud	Henry Miller , the famous nefarious American writer in the twilight years remembers his youth spent in Paris at the dawn of the thirties . A life of debauchery guided by the search for rapture and intense pleasure of the senses through sex , food and literature ( he was a profound admirer of Marcel Proust ) . Amid a bushy and patchy filmography , Claude Chabrol admits liking this movie very much . That this movie makes him feel good is a mystery to me for it showcases none interest . His lack of input in his film , even his absence in the directing are blatant . He shot in a glib way an amorphous biopic to which one doesn't succeed in getting interested beyond the first ten minutes . The characters ( Henry " Joey " Miller , Alfred " Carl " Perlès , Colette Ducarouge ) have little depth and thickness and their acting mainly consist in wandering from brothel to brothel , from restaurant to restaurant ( as Chabrol's inclination for gastronomy has it ) and from flat to apartment . Probably to obey to the famous Latin expression " Carpe Diem " . The action is sluggish and it's nearly a feat that the filmmaker could stretch his film for two hours with such a thin , stale , repetitive screenplay . It's all the more infuriating as the scenario doesn't live up to some heaven-sent opportunities . The ones through which one could have remembered Chabrol's trademark like unearth the hateful flaws of a posh bourgeoisie . But alas , Chabrol contented himself to skim over this point . Bereft of this asset which might have justify the vision of this film and of rigor , Chabrol installs the audience in a deep torpor and one stays out of this derivative picture of the Paris during the Roaring Twenties . The cast is totally undistinguished , a far cry from Chabrol's great family like Jean-Claude Brialy , Michel Bouquet , Jean Poiret or Isabelle Huppert . Yes , the luminary Stéphane Audran is part of the cast but she's completely wasted in a role unworthy of her skills . Anna Galiena is also included in the cast but she will be given the chance to shine the same year with Patrice Leconte's dreamy " Mari De La Coiffeuse " . Chabrol beat his dead horse with this mediocre commissioned film which is now in limbo . Anyway , 1990 was a dreadful vintage for him with these " quiet days in Clichy " and also with another fiasco the same year : " Dr . M " .
Com ' on , Pierre Arditi !	Pierre Arditi is a very talented actor , but the dearth of good parts in the contemporary French cinema often makes him work on stage . He resembles Serge Reggiani and the directors could use him with decent material . Such is not the case with this turkey ! What can he do with the following script ? A young woman , who works in an advertising agency . During a cocktail , she cannot tell her friends she ' s got no lover , so she tells them she's the boss's mistress . The following day , as these good friends cannot keep a secret , everybody's around her , preparing her coffee or asking for a promotion . Anyway , in this enterprise , nobody seems to work and all the conversations revolve around sex with a lot of dirty words at that . This is a crude movie . Get Billy Wilder's " the apartment " instead ! Or even the unpretentious little French comedy " La Doublure " . . . . Wake up , Mister Arditi , and give us something worthwhile !
Mornay sauce .	Rebecca De Mornay can be a fascinating beautiful actress but as for the parts she's given to play , if you cannot say something nice . . . De Mornay portrays a woman who had terrible traumas as a child with a father she can hardly stand now that she's a grown up and has become a - of course brilliant - shrink . She has an affair with Banderas , whom we suspect of being ( ouch ! how original ! ) a serial killer . Sometimes she recalls Banderas's mother-in-law Tippi Hedren's character in " Marnie " . But I wouldn't count on it : Hitchcock died twenty-four years ago , and a lot of regents desperately try to replace him . Here the director pulls out all the stops to make a thriller with an unexpected end , but that ending is so far-fetched it is absolutely impossible to buy it . The movie includes the obligatory " conversations with a serial killer " in the " silence of the lamb " tradition , murders ( human beings and cats ) , split personality , and open ending in case the crowds should call for more . Apparently they did not , and they were right .
Clumsy sci-fi .	Check the title : it's the best thing the film has to offer : a word made of two words " mal " ( French ) and " evil " ( English ) which have the same meaning . It was intended to be " rural " sci-fi without a Charlton Heston type hero . The problem lies in the fact that the movies with Heston ( " planet of the apes " of course " but also " the omega man " and " solyent greeen " ) are damn better than the pitiful French attempt . The cast is not very exciting ( Jacques Villeret is not efficient as a drama actor and Jacques Dutronc is a singer , as the precedent user says , this does not make him an actor for all that ) . The post apocalyptic future was already a hackneyed subject at the time and the conclusion is clumsy , unsatisfying , it takes no chances , raises no questions does not appeal or repel . Word to the wise : 2 Christian de Challonges movies are much more interesting : " l'alliance " ( 1970 ) and " le bel été 14 " ( 1996 ) and too bad if their ratings are lower . Wait and see .
Very poor .	That money can be spent on such well-worn screenplays is beyond me . A man released from jail ( ? ) comes back to his native mountains to find a job in a sawmill and love . . . . but it's his boss's wife . But the boss's kid brother was also the lady's former lover . Cardboard characters " - the heroine is not even a beauty , but she seems to be the one woman around-move in a beautiful landscape . The only reason to watch this dull flick is Serge Reggiani : he is the only actor on the screen who can generate some emotion . Unlike the others , he has a legend going for him ( " les portes de la nuit " " Casque d'or " " Manon " " les amants de Verone " and many more ) . But his part is minimal and he who was young under Carné's or Becker's reign did not deserve to get old in " coupe-franche " . He died last month and all that the French telly found to pay tribute to his talent was this dud .
James Bond meets up with Pussy Galore again .	Forget BB . Three years after " Goldfinger " , here they are again : Sean Connery and Honor Blackman : alas , they have no real scene together and Honor will die horrible death . As for the rest , that is to say the movie itself , it's arguably Dmytryk's nadir . Shot in Spain in the Amerilla plain , it's really a rubbish western . BB is nothing more than a walk-on ; in her memoirs , she remembers " Shalako " as one of her worst actress's experiences . BB + 007 = TNT , the newspapers wrote before the movie was released : BB + 007 = BOO , more like .
All form and no content .	Crichton used to write elaborate screenplays long before he worked for Spielberg ( for whom he made his weakest stories , the likes of " Jurassic park " ) : " Mondwest " , the absorbing " coma " and even " looker " which began to show a declining skill . It was to continue with " Runaway " which had the poorest screenplay Crichton had done to date ( 1984 ) . The movie gets bogged down in gadgetry and the story is linear and predictable , without the brilliance of that of " coma " which held us breathless till its last sequence . The only good idea is the spider which makes you hair stand on end . But it does not make a movie . Do take " mondwest " or " coma " instead .
Fallen Angels	This is typically the kind of movie which retains a small cult-following and does not deserve it at all . First of all , it came ten years to late : see Lazlo Benedeck ' " the wild ones " with Marlon Brando which seems very passé today too . And who could believe in a bunch of weirdoes commanded by Peter Fonda and Nancy Sinatra ? Bruce Dern is , so to speak , the stand-out : he manages to play the first half of the movie alive , and the second half dead ( yes , he does play dead ! ) . The final party wants to shock the spectator but nets only horse-laugh and disgust : you can't make fun of the nazi flag and get away with it , when you know the horrible things this sinister emblem represents . The rapes scenes are unpleasant to a fault ( a pleonasm , anyway , can a rape be pleasant ? ) . It seems that , in the last minutes , the director suddenly realizes how mean is his film : he tries to redeem himself by getting a little " emotion " in the final . So Peter Fonda , in a grand gesture , stays by the grave waiting heroically ( and comically ) for the police . But it is all to little to late .
everything unravels . . .	This effort from Eric Civanyan was basically a play and as it was a big hit , to revive it for the silver screen was nearly inevitable . This helps to fuel the tendency in the landscape of French cinema of the adaptation of popular French plays to the screen . The principle of the film lies on a classical recipe : a main character in the throes of a stressing situation who has to go through a chain of ill-fated setbacks and the apparition without warning of other protagonists . Here , this group of characters is compelled to stay and act together against Mother Nature's vagaries who caused a flood in the country . Apart from their love-related difficulties and their character struggle , they have to conceal this terrible truth to Marine ( Isabelle Gélinas ) who is pregnant for it would cause her an emotional shock . Unfortunately , Civanyan's work is cluttered with glitches . Cues don't always strike right and several portions of dialogs and moments appear badly written . This is still hampered by an hesitating pace . Actors have only little presence on the screen because their characters have only a shallow delineation . Some of them are even wasted like Pascal Elbé with an often hesitant speech . More annoying is Isabelle Gélinas : her naivety is hardly credible . The result is that the film founders and is bound to sink . Eric Civanyan won't be as lucky six years later with another transposition of a play to the screen : " Il Ne Faut Jurer . . . De Rien ! " ( 2005 ) , a so-so amount .
Another man , another woman	Claude Lelouch has made documentaries : " Loin du Vietnam " was a short in a film made up of sequences by different directors including Agnès Varda ; " 13 jours en France " was a reporton the Olympic Games of Grenoble 1968 " filmed with virtuosity but without feeling " ( Claude Bouliq Mercier ) . " Un homme qui me plait " , although it has a plot - a love affair between two married people ( with two generally nice actors : Belmondo and Annie Girardot ) who both work on a film and who combine business with pleasure - does not amount to much . I've got the impression that Lelouch was more interested in the U . S . A . than in his tepid trite story . Belmondo tells it all in one of his lines : " Why make such a film ? Rich people in beautiful cars staying in luxury hotels , who cares ? " Pretty smart on his part !
Kitsch rubbish	Here Jean-Gabriel Albicoco achieves a tour de force : he succeeds in turning Madeleine Robinson , one of the most talented actresses of the French cinema , into a ridiculous histrionic anti-Semitic shrew , overplaying all over the screen and making herself a fool . Only for that , I would dismiss the movie as utter rubbish . Albicoco had already butchered " le grand Meaulnes " with his " misty " " sophisticated " cinematography . Here there was not much to butcher . I have not read Mrs de Rivoyre ' s book ( she wrote the anti-woman's lib " le repos du guerrier " which third-rate director Vadim transferred to the screen ) . The heroine ( Catherine Jourdan , whose moment of glory was short-lived ; she resembled Mia Farrow ) is pure Harlequin Romance girl . The story takes place during WW2 in a desirable mansion which was commandeered by German officers . Among them a handsome young lieutenant ( Matthieu Carrière , wasted ) . Nina ( Jourdan ) is the worst bubble head girl you can see in a film . It takes her one hour to realize that sweet cousin Jean ( whom she loves ) is gay ! Nina's behavior and psychology do not make any sense . Disappointed , she falls into the arms of . . . ( well , you've guessed it ) There's worse : among this hodgepodge of broken dolls , over possessive mothers , horse-riding and swimming in the nude , some scenes become obscene : a short sequence showing a train full of Jews leaving for the concentration camps seems only a detail , which is a shame . ( As Lallie , who appears in this segment only appeared in her wedding scene before , we had forgotten all about her ) " Le petit matin " which I saw when it was theatrically released is completely forgotten today . So is Albicoco .
pseudo suspense	Bernard Rapp's premier film is firmly anchored in the world of books and publishing . It's a domain the former French journalist knows like the back of his hand for he composed many books as well as he produced and host some television programs about writers . Sadly , his wide knowledge as regards the publishing world is harmed by a total absent command of the detective genre and its main motor : suspense . From the moment onwards when Edward Lamb ( Terence Stamp ) looks at the telegram informing him about the death of his erstwhile lover and goes to Tunisia to find out the truth about her death , it's downhill because one can easily guess who the culprit is and the conspiracy Edwards will elaborate to avenge himself from his gifts as a forger . Real suspense isn't on appointment and the writing is on the wall for both Nicolas Fabry ( Daniel Mesguich ) and the film itself . " Tiré à Part " is also sadly marred by a caricatured depiction of the characters . It was ill-advised from Rapp to have chosen Daniel Mesguich as the quarry of Lamb's manipulation . His character of unscrupulous , brash writer and his rather repulsive physic make him detestable straight away . It's also hardly palatable that he didn't feel any remorse after his murder . If it had been the case , he would have been a more ambiguous character and the film would have taken another better direction . As for Terence Stamp , he deserves better than his role . Ditto for Jean-Claude Dreyfuss who seems to be bored here . Rapp who had English ancestors was fond of English culture but it's superfluous from him to have chosen Great-Britain than France for the backdrop of his ramshackle thriller for it doesn't bring anything useful to the fragile story . It's a shame for Rapp : had he penned a more solid story , he would have better served his topic of manipulation . A theme which will be at the core of his next effort : " une Affaire De Goût " ( 2000 ) .
rubbish	This the story of Elle Woods ( Reese Witherspoon ) , a pretty girl with blond hair who is also a brilliant student ( how original it is ! ) . With her boyfriend , Emmett Richmond ( Luke Wilson ) , they are living love's dream . But one day , he's leaving her by announcing him that he's engaging in a politic career . For this , he'll study law in a brilliant university . You can guess easily Witherspoon's feelings : sadness , frustration but revenge too . In order to have her revenge and to get her darling again , she's registering in the same university . . . This is from this moment on that the movie becomes poor . " Legally Blonde " is a bad movie because it's based on a cock and bull screenplay that often falls into foolishness and it includes several unlikelinesses . Even in one hour and a half , you find time to get bored and this movie that is supposed to be a comedy isn't funny at all , in the long run . So I can't believe that this movie is rather well marked : 6 . 6 out10 ! . Uneventful and boring . At a pinch can we save Reese Witherspon ' s rather good performance .
Bourgeois cinema .	It looks like Claude Sautet's seventies movies . This film takes no chance , raises no question does not charm or repel . The eternal love triangle . An actress ( without roles ) married with a wealthy antique dealer falls from a younger man . What shall she do ? Well do not bother . The three of them have no problems to make ends meet . The triteness of the screenplay is so glaring it's extraordinary that the director could find a producer . François Dupeyron would show more ambition afterward : his fantasy effort " la machine " which featured Gérard Depardieu and Natalie Baye was certainly underrated ( in its own way , it predated " Face / Off " ! ) . And he finally gave his best film with " la Chambre des Officiers "
A major disappointment .	The year before , Robert Enrico had released his best film ever : " les aventuriers " . Its follow-up " Tante Zita " was one of his most personal movies , but also his least accessible work . " Ho " was a major disappointment . Third film featuring Johanna Shimkus , it's by far the weakest link of the " trilogy " . Far from the wonderful Leatitia in " les aventuriers " and the maiden who had to cope with death in " Tante Zita " , Shimkus ' s part is so thin here it's reduced to a decorative walk on . It's Belmondo who gets the lion ' s share here . He portrays a race driver who has lost his membership card ( like Delon's pilot Manu had lost his in " les aventuriers " ) . So he has become the chauffeur of a gangsters pack , a very humiliating situation . Good start , but disastrous screenplay , never rising over routine cops and robbers genre . Stick with " les aventuriers " .
everything must go including this movie	If you have never seen this French movie , you frankly don't miss anything . There are at least five major shortcomings to enable you to skip " tout doit disparaître " without any regret . - First of all , it is obvious that when you shot a movie with very restricted means ( the scenery and certain parts of dialogs seem extracted from a sitcom . Moreover , there are only five important actors plus a handful of extras ) , the result can't be convincing . - Then , the actors are really bad , especially Yolande Moreau . But the prize of the worst actress arguably goes to the non-existent , the inexpressive , the colorless Ophélie Winter . Why on earth did she have to get involved in that business ? - The making is far from making up for the whole : it is flat , it lacks of liveliness and Philippe Muyl , the director neglected two significant details that would probably have contributed to the success of this comedy : the grain of madness and the logic of absurd humor . - So , if the director had used the two quoted details , the script in its general line could have given birth to a relevant black comedy . But it is not the case . There are too many predictable sudden new developments and the scriptwriters go from one idea to another without any logical liking and with a certain clumsiness . - At last , the movie doesn't work because it uses stereotyped characters : Yolande Moreau is perhaps rich but she is ugly . As for Ophélie Winter , Didier Bourdon's secretary , the authors introduce her as a ravishing character . In the end ? There's nothing left but a flop . A British filmmaker like Charles Crichton would have been the perfect man for the job . Besides , the very end of the movie ( when all the characters are on the plane ) is an allusion to " A Fish Called Wanda " ( 1988 ) .
nothing to eat in this reheated menu	" Payback " sadly confirms this trend : scenarists don't often make worthwhile movies . I'm amazed when I see the crop of plaudits the film garnered when it opened the streets at the dawn of 1999 in France . The specialized press liked the cleansing vibe which revived this thriller as well as its stylish aesthetic side . I'm not conducive at all to these assets and it seems that we didn't watch the same movie . I only saw a derivative story that piled up well-worn ingredients revolving around a story of revenge with an obstinate , unscrupulous killer , Porter ( Mel Gibson ) who wants to have his cash back and is confronted to a gallery of stereotyped characters including a sadomasochistic mistress , ruthless business men , baddies and members of the underworld . Brian Helgeland searched this way and that ( Quentin Tarantino's universe , the " Dirty Harry " saga , many gangster movies ) to bestow his film with a semblance of substance . But his scenario can't hold up because it seems to have been written in a snap manner and it's too linear to be really excited about it in spite of the unexpected twists and turns to beef it up . Anyway , some of these turns aren't that much fresh . His directing also accumulates free violence with many fights , scraps , explosions thrown in for good measure and to give substance to a skimpy , ramshackle set . But beyond the endeavor to give a stylish film which makes it look like a comic strip , there's really nothing exciting . Mel Gibson acts like a dogged zombie and gets the lion's share in the cast . He was at odds with Helgeland and reorganized several moments as well as he supervised the editing . He beat a dead horse for it doesn't improve the quality of the film .
Why did we tell Jacques Villeret that he'd be the golden boy ?	A film whose topic is one of the western society's major problems : unemployment , " Golden Boy " evokes the French populist cinema of the thirties . Moreover , several sides of the story show that the movie is very influenced by Frank Capra's works . Unfortunately Jean-Pierre Vergne's movie can't hold a candle to any of Capra's movies . The three most obvious adjectives to qualify this movie are : labored , dull and above all flat . The movie exudes a nice and harmless comic but it seriously lacks of cutting . Then , a nonexistent and listless directing , several hackneyed or predictable situations , a poor script don't help matters . All these factors can explain the commercial and critical failure of this movie when it was released in 1996 . At last , even Jacques Villeret who is however one of the finest comic actors that French cinema gave us can't save this firm ( you said it ) from mediocrity .
my bloody valentine	The huge success of " Scream " in 1996 enabled to launch a new trend in the horror movie . This trend is based on a so-far peaceful universe but destroyed by the arrival of a disruptive element which is epitomized by a serial-killer . I would also add that since " Scream " and another " I know what you did last summer " , anything goes to shot horror movies whose topic deals with a serial-killer . Here , Saint Valentine's day is used as a pretext to shot a new opus with the quoted topic . The result gives a movie that barely shines by the originality of the directing , the paucity of the script , the impression of " déjà-vu " in several moments ( murders ) . " Valentine " brings nothing new to an already threadbare topic . You may skip this movie without remorse .
pray for us	The director Jean Pierre Vergne directed some TV movies but who was unlucky when it came to direct movies for the silver screen before and after " Priez Pour Nous " : ( le Téléphone Sonne Toujours Deux Fois , 1985 owed a lot to the " Inconnus " while Golden Boy , 1996 in spite of Jean Claude Carrère at the scenario and Jacques Villeret's presence was a total fiasco ) . Like its companions , " Priez Pour nous " doesn't reach at all the scale of the masterwork . The shadow of " La Vie Est Un Long Fleuve Tranquille " ( 1988 ) , Etienne Chatiliez's finest piece of work to date hangs over the whole movie . Charles Gassot who produced this delicious film is responsible for the production but also for the scenario of the film . In the sixties , a ruined aristocratic family has no other choice than to settle down in a flat located in a popular neighborhood and to mingle with the working classes . While the numerous impish children strike up a friendship with tough young adolescents after however first not so tender contacts and the baron finally gets used to this new life as well as the maid , the baroness is cracking up and galvanizes her husband to look for a lascivious housing as soon as possible . But her husband who has to start to work sometimes illegally is the king of laziness and the children begin to discover the harsh side of life with their religious conception that collapse . . . " Priez Pour Nous " doesn't match the grandeur of Chatiliez's film . The major difference with Chatiliez's cult film which turns to its disadvantage is that it lacks of dynamism and nerves . Such a story should have required a vehement disposition at all levels in the writing and shooting . Cues aren't as potent as they claim to be , directing is a bit listless and the onslaught at this bourgeois milieu is hardly discernible . The actors as a whole remain glued to a rather monotonous acting , especially Samuel Labarthe which trammel the credibility and hilarity of many moments . For instance , the baroness ' madness is shown in a rather softened way which is a little hard to swallow . The whole looks like a TV movie . In the end , " Priez Pour Nous " misses its target and can't claim to be a reliable supplier of genteel laughter . Not exactly the trusty heir of " La Vie Est Un Long Fleuve Tranquille " .
mediocre B thriller	The year before " les Kidnappeurs " ( 1998 ) opened in France , Graham Guit had signed a tight and dry B whodunit with a dash of humor : " le Ciel est à Nous " ( 1997 ) . Its model in the form and the content was the violent and bloody universe of Quentin Tarantino . One year later , hiring the same crew , he did it again with " les Kidnappeurs " , obviously an endeavor to produce a new little worked up whodunit in the same vein as its predecessor . Alas , it's a let-down which isn't up to scratch with " le Ciel est à Nous " and has virtually nothing commendable . There have been harsh words about Guit's effort and rightly so . It fails to be exciting albeit the onset starts under auspicious skies . As a matter of fact , the whole interest of the film remains confined in the outset with this astute idea : how Ulysse reveals to his accomplices how it is possible to simply succeed the burglary without danger and to pocket the loot . But as the average viewer can guess , it's too good to be true since in reality , the operation will go awry and the loot will be rubbish . It's the only watchable part of the flick and the job must be done under Freddy's orders . Alas , after the first meeting of the gang with him , it's downhill and it seems that Guit has left the building . The rest of the film consists of complex filler and its desultory character is revealed in all its splendor . Various inexplicable twists , complications and muddle clutter a screenplay written besides in a snap manner without altering and more serious without any attempt to clarify it . The director doesn't bother for his job and shelved a crucial premise of the cinema : a film is a sort of communicative link between its author and the viewer . But here , by delivering a story which is hard to decipher , Guit shows no respect for the audience . As he botches his job with his couldn't-care-less directing , it doesn't help his actors who do what they can to save the film from wreckage although it is doomed to failure . Too bad for young interprets like Elodie Bouchez or Melvil Poupaud who made the mistake to get themselves embroiled in this dud . Isaac Sharry makes his part count early in the story but then it becomes uninteresting . Romain Duris stands out as the lousy baddie with an IQ close to zero but one prefers him when he teams up with Cedric Klapisch . It even seems that the cast , by moments prefers to enjoy sunny landscapes . Loose : it's the most suitable adjective to qualify Guit's piece of work who neglected to include stringent in his mind when he wrote the film . A hash of money as well as a waste of film both for the actors and the audience . Take " le Ciel est à Nous " instead . NB : Elie Kakou dies at the end of the film , a sinister omen when one knows that he died of a cancer the following year in 1999 . . .
Wanted	Based on the true story of a French gangster who was widely talked about in the late seventies . Made by Claude Chabrol's producer Paul Genovès . And played by Nicolas Silberg - who is best known for his Bussy character in the excellent " Dame de Montsoreau " miniseries circa 1975 - , de la Comédie Française , thus the only real convincing actor of the whole movie , sadly unsupported by the rest of the cast and Genovès's poor directing . It's difficult to have interest in such a character . There are subjects which are not really appealing . Okay Mesrine thought , and for a good reason , for he spent twenty years of his life in jail , in top security wing , that prison was inhuman and destroyed the human being ; thus his plan of a great escape where he would free all the prisoners of La Santé , a penitentiary where he was the first and only to escape from to this day . It does not justify all those crimes : 39 in all .
The unusual suspects	Just have a look at the way the Italian Immigrante is treated , and compare it to the VIP's offspring , complete with help from the government and lawyer ! The poor man is not even granted a " vous " , the French polite phrase . This is the only thing that rings true in what finally is a mediocre sprawling movie the only other asset of which is the beauty of Mimsy Farmer ( Michel Bouquet is completely wasted ) . This " political " thriller is full of clichés : the foreign girl who sleeps with the first to come - the French ones would not do such a thing - , the post-68 bourgeois kid rebelling against ( not for long ) his father's way of life , the greybeard who still thinks he is a lady killer ( Paul - " les Diaboliques " - Meurisse ) , the pop singer - who of course is a junkie although Jean-Claude Dauphin strangely resembles Gerard Lenormand , a harmless neat artist of the French seventies . . . The beginning of the movie was interesting and might have suggested a ( very ) lite " Citizen Kane " with the use of a diary the victim used to write on her trip in old France . The luminous landscapes of Provence - too bad they did not use the lovely village " les Baux de Provence " - are nicely filmed . But the story gets bogged down in usual and unusual suspects interminable questionings , and at the end of the movie , the viewer does not care anymore about the whodunit . Which does not seem to matter anymore anyway .
Sunday boring Sunday .	This is exactly the kind of movie that passes for " intellectual " " must-see " for snobs . Actually it is one of the biggest chores the British cinema has produced . This movie came at least ten years TOO LATE : Antonioni cum Tennessee Williams was over the hill at the time . Intended as some kind of " bourgeois " ordinary life - as Ken Loach does for the proles , but with much more talent - , with a " scandalous " touch thrown in for good measure . Murray Head , the " star " ( of Judas " Jesus Christ Superstar fame ! ) is supposed to be a painter , he's actually a gigolo for both Glenda Jackson and Peter Finch ( two wasted actors ) , since we never see him work . There's the rub : in this bourgeois world , everything is allowed . Had Schlesinger situated his story in middle - class , he would have taken more risks . But look at all these posh people at the Jew celebration ; and look how ridiculous Finch is : he looks almost as old as his parents and his aunt . This may be psychological drama , but it's an overcautious approach , very politically correct . Just compare to James Ivory's courageous " Maurice " , as far homosexuality is concerned . A far cry from his " midnight cowboy " ( 1969 )
I'll take a rain ( s ) check on that !	Claude Rains ' worst part ? This flick is a strong contender ! Like his compatriots Bette Davis and Joan Crawford , he tries his hand at camp ! Overacting is an euphemism . Wearing horrible glasses , writing mathematical gibberish everywhere , lazily lying on his hammock in his greenhouse , and ranting ceaselessly about the power of the army . . A new war of the worlds is about to break out ! The flying saucers are hardly superior to Ed Wood's stuff , but the " il pianeta degli uomini spenti " ( Rains finds the place so fascinating he decides to stay there till he dies , impending death anyway ) shows painstaking film sets , and there's a smart nod at Noah's Ark but the desultory script borrows a lot from the highly superior " Forbidden planet " . Claude Rains ' fans ? Do they really have to choose this , among all his other films around ?
A family saga . . . . .	. . . . as Visconti showed it in a work such as " la cadeti dei degli " ( 1969 ) demands much more than " Innocent lies " ' s director can do . Outside the brother and the sister , and the cop ( who is humming twice bribes of the old Irish tune " Carrickfergus " ; the connection with the movie escapes me , I am afraid ) , the other characters are only silhouettes and you have a feeling that some essential scenes are lacking , for this a relatively short movie all the same ( barely 90 min ) . Some subplots , such as the first cop's investigation and suicide are only skimmed over . Ditto for the Jewish wife's scene . As for the incestuous sister's unfortunate fiancé , he has two or three lines to say and that's it . The users were harsh when they rated the movie and I can sadly find little fault with that .
Crimes in the street ( and everywhere )	a French thriller of the eighties , " Preuve d'Amour " bears all the appropriate scars of the time : it is a patchy inconsistent movie , with gaudy scenes and an unbearable music : flashy and no substance . Influenced by former works which were not that much good in the first place ( the flashbacks inspired by " l'Ete Meurtrier " , the cinematography desperately trying to ape that of " Diva " ) . If there were a time for French thrillers , it was the fifties when Clouzot , Decoin , Duvivier and even Hossein were here with their firm screenplays . The film is dedicated to Michel Auclair who died when the film was released , it's a very sad swansong for an exceptional actor who was featured in at least half a dozen of classics , notably " La Belle Et La Bête " by Cocteau , " Les Maudits " by Clement , " Manon " by Clouzot and " La Fete A Henriette " by Duvivier . He has only three or four scenes and , probably already sick , he is only the ghost of himself . The rest of the cast is undistinguished and badly directed , even earnest thespians such as Darmon and Spiesser cannot play their game well . The poor plot revolves around blackmail and murder . Because of the lack of substance , the writers call American cinema and literature for help ; we learn that both the hero and the heroine love Francis Scott Fitzgerald and his " design " apartment shows posters of " Crimes in the city " ( Don Siegel ) and " Night of the iguana " ( John Huston ) . The hero's pet is an iguana called " Hypocrit " . This reptile steals the show .
Fallen idol .	It looks like a parboiled cross between Douglas Sirk and Michelangelo Antonioni , with a touch of French nouvelle vague thrown in for good measure . It depicts a spoilt youth playing with trash . None of the young actors became a star afterward , which is easily understandable ; for instance , John Layton was supposed to play nineteen-year old Jones ' son , and he was already 27 ( ! ) at the time if IMDb informations are accurate . Jennifer Jones is the only reason why you would watch this boring " psychological " melodrama . She had already worked in GB for " gone to earth " ( 1949 ) but Daniel Petrie cannot hold a candle to Michael Powell . Her character ( a still attractive middle-age woman who falls for a two-bit James Dean ) is nothing short of worthless : only the open ending might make this part a bit original , but it's too little too late . One scene is particularly unpleasant nay obnoxious : the would-be drunk idol asks a prostitute to " evaluate " the girls of the party .
The slump begins here	" Nada " was the most inadequate follow-up to " Les NOces Rouges " which , with hindsight , appears now as the last good movie of Chabrol's golden era ( 1967-1973 ) " Nada " is Chabrol's first real attempt at a wholly political movie ; its previous work " les Noces Rouges " had also political elements but it was more a psychological thriller with the usual look at society in French provinces . " Nada " includes terrorists , ambassador , hostage-taking , a lot of blood , not really Chabrol's field . A heterogeneous cast gives the movie the coup de grâce : only Duchaussoy , who had already played with the director , and Maurice Garrel are up to scratch . Viviane Romance , one of Duvivier's actresses ( " la Belle Equipe " " Panique " ) , is wasted as a madam ( Gabrielle ) . Italian actors ( Fabio Testi , Lou Castel ) are awful . With " Nada " this a second period of barren inspiration for Chabrol . It would be " Violette Nozières " before he was again at the top of his game .
the cable guy , he only wants to embrace your life and to be your friend forever	20 000 000 millions of dollars . Jim Carrey asked this substantial amount to hold this miscast role for him . This Pharaonic amount of money is just as equal as his overwhelming presence in " the Cable Guy " ( 1996 ) . If he tries to renew his image by acting another type of character who is a disturbing psychopath ( a will already contemplated with the rather poor " Batman Forever " 1995 ) , on the other hand , his acting hasn't changed : still bombastic with grimaces and frenzied gestures by the bucketful . Beside him , it's hard for Matthew Broderick to play opposite him . As for the rest of the cast , its members are relegated to the roles of walk-on parts . It's a shame because if the basic idea isn't new ( we have seen the topic of the disturbing character invades a peaceful universe many times before in the cinema and in a better treatment ) , Stiller's making is more careful and vigilant than in his " Zoolander " ( 2001 ) flick . Sometimes , he succeeds in exuding a grain of madness which gives the whole , for a while a mad tone ( the scene of the restaurant ) . Moreover , the satire is well present even if it is excessive due to the numerous targets : consumer society , television and computing overequipment . To sum up , " the Cable Guy " in spite of a decent making is mainly a flop because spoiled by Carrey's omnipresence who leaves bits to his partner . To crown it all , the latter asked a comfortable fee , the movie didn't prove very profitable . Carrey's fans must have said to themselves : " please Jim , don't change " !
Suspense ersatz .	This movie had high pretensions . Sebastien Japrisot is a poor man's Boileau Narcejac whose scripts are far-fetched and fall apart at every twist . Stephane Audran's presence could give a Claude Chabrol feel . And the heroine was Samantha Eggar , of " the collector " fame ( 1965 ) . Add Oliver Reed and a director , Anatole Litvak , who succeeded brilliantly in suspense in former days ( sorry wrong number , 1948 ) Eggar has been framed and she tries to understand as the plot thickens . Would his boss ( Reed ) do very bad things behind her back ? Don't expect " les diaboliques " . The ending is trite and disappointing . Anatole Litvak called it a day after this thriller . The sixties had been pretty disastrous for him , encompassing Françoise Sagan ( Aimez-vous Brahms ? / Goodbye again ) and absurd " historical " thriller ( the night of the generals )
too much fire kills it	In 1987 , Quinnell's book was adapted for the silver screen by Elie Chouraqui , a minor director , responsible of " Paroles et Musique " ( 1984 ) and " les Marmottes " ( 1993 ) . This version was not a masterpiece and is now virtually in limbo . Unfortunately , it's not this overlong remake by Tony Scott which will set the record straight . Leaving Italy for Mexico , " Man on Fire " is split in two drastically different but globally weak halves . The first one deals with Creasy ( Denzel Washington ) who is hired as a bodyguard in a well-off Mexican family to protect a little girl named Pita ( Dakota Fanning ) . He's a man with a sad past and a strong bias for alcohol . Maybe will he find solace and redemption thanks to the Holy Bible . Ouch ! How original . Actually , this first part piles up the clichés linked to Crasy but also to the unlikely friendship he stroked up with his little protégée . First , sullen and distant and then friendly , he has found a way to approach her by developing in her assertion and setting new targets for herself thanks to a swimming competition . But the evolution of his demeanor and especially his liking towards the little girl is showed in a quite shallow way to be really conclusive . Now , what about this second part ? It completely changes the tone of the film which takes a leap into explosive violence and linear investigation . After his coma , Creasy turns into a real killing machine who exterminates all the ones who were involved in the abduction of Pita . Blood abundantly flows , explosions succeed themselves with stunts and knock-out images galore . Scott and his scenarist Brian Helgeland also felt compelled to include sequences which shelter free violence . One of them was influenced by Quentin Tarantino's " Reservoir Dogs " ( 1992 ) . It's the sequence in which Washinton is with one of the kidnappers in a car and tortures him to make him speak with loud music on the radio . But in parallel not to stay confined in this assumed perspective , Helgeland tried to introduce twists to boost the interest of the viewer in Creasy's vengeful adventure . Thus , in the middle of this second part , we learn a far-fetched revelation whose nature makes a little think of " Fargo " ( 1996 ) by the Coen brothers . The content of the film is made of thin substance and is still plagued by the flashy form . Scott didn't jettison his trademark which mar his efforts . His visual , sound excesses that are supposed to impress and gain the audience's approval make the film distressing to watch in the long run . Hyper images , sophisticated camera work , sharp editing are supposed to be here to compensate the weak potential of the story and it only helps to plague it . Worse : these features sometimes arrive at the most awkward moment in the story and action . Then , the soundtrack is extremely loud and mixed forward . Sometimes , you have to listen very closely to decipher what the characters say . This drawback is more irritating in the second half . " Man on Fire " is also ruined by an ugly cinematography . What's the consequence of all this ? A large proportion of shots are distorted by one or the other of these drawbacks . Overrall the other directions that the scenario could have taken to enable the film to take a subtle , rich dimension have been shelved or lightly touched . For instance , the major problem of these abductions of children in Latin America falls in the second category . Instead , Helgeland created a linear , stubborn revenge story which Scott filmed with a festival of shock images and by this ruined the reduced potential of the story . Even the direction of actors seems absent . Denzel Washington who is a commendable actor is here unable to shade his acting . Christopher Walken , a big American actor isn't given a chance to shine and his part is blatantly underwritten . But the little Dakota Fanning which Sean Penn's fans discovered in " I Am Sam " ( 2001 ) gives a quite mature offering . On its release , " Man on Fire " was made alluring through an eye-catching cover but this blazing film left me cold . As a scenarist , Brian Helgeland saw brighter days before : " L . A . Confidential " ( 1997 ) , " grandad " Clint Eastwood's " Mystic River " ( 2003 ) . . .
A bevy of beautiful girls . . . . .	. . . . spending a " beautiful Summer " ( that's what the title claims ) in a green country . Faustine is one of them . All the boys around woo her particularly Joachim ( Francis Huster Nina Companez would use again for her notorious " Histoire Tres Bonne et Tres Joyeuse de Colinot Trousse - Chemise " ) but Faustine is not an easy girl ; she has this immortal line " I haven't allowed you to caress my back " . Harmless , nay dumb stuff : the only good thing is George Marchal's presence . in a part unworthy of himself , he portrays the mature man . The - harrowing - question is : will Faustine play around with all the young dudes or will she fall for a man who could be her father ?
Canet and Lindon : brothers in arms ?	Back to the Middle Ages , but as the precedent user wrote , what's the point ? It was already questionable in " le retour de Martin Guerre " , an overrated movie which used the era as an " exotic " background for was finally a story which could happen nowadays . " Le frère du guerrier " , on the other hand , seems at first sight less spectacular , less academic , depicting a rural landscape , like Bertrand Tavernier in " la passion Béatrice " : only the first sequence recalls the heyday of the French swashbuckler in the late fifties / early sixties , some of which are still entertaining today . The main problem with " le frère du guerrier " is : is this entertaining ? and if it is not , is there much food for thought ? Entertaining is not a word I would choose : the movie definitely lacks tempo and the characters meander endlessly in an hostile environment . " Le frère du guerrier " fills its quota of blood and sex , even when it gets tougher , it never succeeds in exciting . The actors are never given a chance to move us , even in the last sequence . Now for the " intellectual " side ( if there is any ) : like " la passion Béatrice " , the most interesting subject is the stranglehold religion had on everything : in the Middle Ages culture was to be found in the nunneries and the cathedrals . But it's only skimmed over and even refuted by the ridiculous " latin " sequence . At least , Tavernier's hero , coming back from the crusade and having lost his faith was a strong character superbly portrayed by Bernard-Pierre Donnadieu . Neither Canet nor Lindon have his talent and the movie is finally a disappointment .
The dark mirror	Please do not mention Hitchcock ! The Master knew that without a solid screenplay it's a waste of breath . All those " modern " French thrillers suffer from approximative vague scripts . The directors think that special effects , disturbing music ( here very Chabrolesque ) , and an ominous soundtrack can make the job done . Spice with uninspired flashbacks and nightmares . Add some sex . Serve tepid . Benoit Magimel is too limited an actor to suggest two different personalities ( Jeremy Irons he is definitely not ) . Even the final trick is not new . It was invented by Sacha Guitry half a century before . And whereas " trouble " takes finally the easy way out , the 1953 film did not give the audience any answer . Like this ? Try these . . . . " Dead ringers " David Cronenberg 1988 Irons and his twin " Dead ringer " Paul Henreid 1965 Bette Davis and her twin ( 2 ) " Toi Le Venin " Robert Hossein 1958 Marina Vlady and Odile Versois " La Vie d'Un Honnête Homme " Sacha Guitry 1953 Michel Simon and his twin . " A stolen life " Curtis Bernardt 1951 Bette Davis and her twin . " The dark mirror " Robert Siodmak 1946 Olivia de Havilland and her twin .
truth hurts . . .	Fletcher Reede ( Jim Carrey ) , is a lawyer who is estranged from his wife Audrey ( Maura Tierney ) . His occupations maintain him far from his home and particularly from his son Max . But he really loves him . One day , for his birthday , Max wishes that his father can't lie for 24 hours . His wish will come true since for 24 hours , Reede will be through a living hell . One must suffer to improve oneself . . . With " Liar Liar " , the authors set themselves the following target : to conceive a tailor-made movie for Jim Carrey . Why ? Because they surely realized that their topic was thin and it would pose problems to write a screenplay holding water . So , to compensate for the very reduced potential of the script they decided to give Carrey a free hand and to leave a very important part of the film in his hands . Thus , the actor , once revealed with " the Mask " ( 1994 ) gets out again , without trying to bring anything new to his acting his comical elements that secured his success . It means : his grimaces , his showy expressions and his implausible cues for a kind of one man-show which often borders on the unacceptable . Carrey does his best to bring an ounce of credibility to his character but his bombastic ( the term is weak ) performance only succeeds in massacring the film . Worse , his third-rate acting is so significant that it leaves little place to the other actors ' acting . Actors who try with difficulty to play opposite Carrey . This poor comedy shows once again that exclusively relying on a main actor to save a film can be a serious mistake . Fortunately , it seems that Carrey after this flick wanted to give the image of a conscientious actor capable to direct his career . Indeed , we will see him holding more serious roles where he will be able to restrain his tendency to third-rate acting . Try " the Truman Show " ( 1998 ) , " Man on the Moon " ( 1999 ) or more recently " Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind " ( 2004 ) . Let's hope he goes on and perseveres in this way .
Going for broke . . . pas du tout .	The title and the prologue might make think of a fine little film noir . " Le tout pour le tout " = ( going for broke ) . The heroes are not going for broke , that's for sure , but the producers were certainly broke . It seems that the cast took advantage of a trip to Brazil to film this obsolete story of husband and wife trying their luck in a foreign country . More than a comic strip , the movie rather recalls photo love stories which were thriving in the European fifties / sixties . Interesting , at a pinch , for Bruno Cremer's fans , the only name in the cast which is still known today . The ending is a poor man's " treasure of the Sierra Madre " .
Aux Enfants De La Chance . . . . . .	. . . . . To the lucky children who have never known drugs . . . . sings Serge Gainsbourg in one of his best songs about the dealers . Gainsbourg was a singer / songwriter extraordinaire but really a poor actor ; anyway , he could not have saved this absolute dud . By far , André Cayatte ' s worst effort , with an absurd screenplay written by Barjavel ( whose attempts at sci-fi are not really exciting , at least to my eyes : but this movie is not sci-fi , mind you ) . Most of the actors are badly directed , and even Jane Birkin cannot convince as a junkie with an angel face . In the past , André Cayatte had taken his movies out of the courtroom ( he was unfairly nicknamed " the lawyer of cinema " by Truffaut ) , notably in his excellent " Oeil Pour Oeil " ( 1957 ) . But here , only the splendid landscapes around Katmandu are worthwhile . In his earlier " Avant Le Deluge " , Cayatte had also shown a youth in despair , dreaming of sailing away to the islands in the sun . But if their plan failed , the movie was really strong , one of these - it's not the only one - overlooked fifties movies . In " Les Chemins De Katmandou " , a young man , after the great disappointment of the aftermath Of May 68 , leaves his mother ( Elsa Martinelli was about ten years older than Renaud Verley who plays her son ) , and goes in search of his infamous father who never gave a single penny to them . The road to Katmandu will be a rocky one . The movie will too .
A mediocre adventure yarn .	This story is supposed to happen during WW2 , but it quickly leaves this historical context for exotic horizons . The presence of a short-haired Yvonne De Carlo ( in order to give her a " French " style ? ) , a hairdo that does not become her at all , increases this feeling . The script is rather poor , every time a French soldier is introduced , be sure to hear the first bars of " La Marseillaise " . There are a lot of betrayals , attacks , a big-heart raider ( guess whom , De Carlo , a French officer's wife , will fall in love with ? ) . Two very sadistic scenes : a baddie - Arab of course - gives French lieutenant as a snack to his lethal tarantulas , and he wants to reiterate this very bad deed with Victor Mature himself . Will he survive ? Do not bother . If you want to see a good Jack ( or Jacques ) Tourneur movie , do choose " cat people " instead , or , better , " out of the past "
This movie merely aims at children	Making a movie that mixes characters cartoons with actors in the flesh is a good idea so long as the plot must be interesting enough to sustain the interest . For " Space jam " , we're far from the result . With the exception of quite successful special effects and a plain performance of Michael Jordan , the movie is absolutely devoid of interest . It consists on a flat and trite story , a convenient and predictable screenplay . Moreover , Bugs Bunny and his friends are the kings of third-rate acting and make hardly the spectator laugh . In short , there is nearly nothing to save in this movie that will especially please to children .
Back to Charlotte Armstrong .	This is the second adaptation of Charlotte Armstrong by Claude Chabrol for the screen : the first was " la rupture " ( 1970 ) ( from novel " the balloon man " ) and it's really a pity no one cares about it . It's Chabrol's sleeper , and I urge any of his fans to see it . " The chocolate " cobweb was not that strong a detective story to begin with . I read it 20 years ago and forgot all about it . The movie promises some good things at first , though , then finally disappoints to a fault . This is a confusing Chabrol movie , mixing elements of the heyday ( circa 1969 ) , and a lotta tongue-in-chick stuff coming from the eighties , the likes of ' poulet au vinaigre " , not one particularly memorable work . Part of the disappointment comes from the cast : this is a distressingly poor gathering : Jacques Dutronc plays like a zombie , Isabelle Huppert reveals herself a somewhat limited actress , finally rather vulgar . It worked in " une affaire de femme " , it does not here . They are not supported by the young couple : both are bland and unremarkable . Actors from the past , say , Stephane Audran or Michel Bouquet ( both in " la rupture " ) were brilliant and contributed to Chabrol's then unique atmosphere . The story itself is undistinguished : beginning as some kind of " serious " " la vie est un long fleuve tranquille " ( besides , a character hints at Etienne Chatilliez's very funny movie ) , the movie drags on and on as a laughable psychological drama afterwards . We will not congratulate the young female pianist , who , after all she learned about her wicked hostess , agrees to drive a car along a dangerous road . Because he makes too many movies , Chabrol frequently releases turkeys . One wonder why people who wants to watch one of his movies should choose this one among all his stuff up for grabs . It seems that Chabrol's bourgeoise satire has finally given way to leniency . In " la rupture " the first Armstrong adaptation-an average detective story which Chabrol completely transcended - , you should hear Audran say " they have so much money ! " . Here , Chabrol has lost his bite , his strength .
The nouvelle vague in all its splendor . . . .	. . . or all its horror , depending on whom you ask . Everything you like ( or dislike ) in the French nouvelle vague is here : amateurish acting ( with the exception of Paulette Dubost : why on earth did she have to get involved in that business ? ) , loose screenplay ( and I'm overgenerous to write this ) , characters who appear and disappear without bringing anything to the plot , if we can speak of a plot . Because it's a woman ' s film , people will moot an Agnes Varda influence . But in " Cleo de 5 à 7 " , Varda moved us and her characters were made of flesh and blood . Varda , even if her screenplay was " open " , dsplayed respect for her audience and her story featured a dramatic progression and we could identify with her Cleo : who's not afraid of cancer ? Here a girl who has been ditched by her boyfriend a singer - Pierre Barouh who plays himself since he was a singer in the sixties : his most famous hit was the " un homme et une femme " ( chabadabada ) duet with Nicole Croisille - goes playing around in the south of France . THere are nice shots of Nimes , its arena and the Camargue . Eric Rohmer's fans can have a look ; it may be their cup of tea . The others can take to their heels .
Favorite son , not favorite movie !	Like her star Bernard Giraudeau , Nicole Garcia's ambition was to direct movies ; she got close for honor with her " un week-end sur deux " . She did even better with " l'adversaire " Here she wallows in rivers of clichés . First of all , her main star is not up to scratch : Gérard Lanvin's wooden acting is desperately boring . Such a choice for the lead is really amazing ! What's more infuriating is that the highly superior Bernard Giraudeau only appears 30 minutes . Bearing more than a distant resemblance to Rosi's " tre fratelli " ' ( 1981 ) , " le fils préféré " is a banal effort with the de rigueur gay character played by Giraudeau who wears horrible glasses and of course the father is a good-hearted man , after all . Ridiculous scene when the father nearly gets drowned . No cigar , and not even close .
on the beach . . .	In the beginning of 2000 , everyone waited impatiently , the release of the movie " the beach " , mainly because Leonardo DiCaprio was in the main role . You thought that he was going to carry on with dignity , following the huge commercial and artistic success of " Titanic " . But sadly , it's not the case . This movie that is a new variation of the lost paradise is a disappointment . As far as I'm concerned , I saw the movie at the cinema when it was launched in February 2000 and I thought that it would focus only on DiCaprio , Ledoyen and Canet's efforts to discover this beach . Actually , my expectation was justified but it only lasts half an hour . When they discover the beach and they adhere to the community , I think the movie could have ended there . The second part ( which starts with the three Swedish bitten by a shark ) only plays the role of fill-in and spoils all the movie . Moreover , Danny Boyle eyes a bit too much towards the bloody . Otherwise , to put it mildly is that the dialogs of " the beach " are few inspired sometimes silly and too convenient with the situations . Sometimes , the movie turns out to be too predictable : before the love affair between DiCaprio and Ledoyen , you guess that a love story will start between them . And , inevitably , it will cause Canet's jealousy but this jealousy will spread to Ledoyen she learns that DiCaprio had sex with Sal during their stay in Bangkok . Besides , the performance appears quite mixed : Ledoyen and Canet are paling into insignifiance next to DiCaprio . Another thing I noticed : DiCaprio ' voice-off doesn't succeed in making the movie gripping as it was the case with Edward Norton in " Fight Club " . Then , let's admit it : the end of the movie seems too easy and conventional . You guess before the end that the perfect paradise doesn't exist on earth and certainly not in Thailand : there are sharks , it's not always shiny and Sal , the leader of the community reveals herself to be despotic and finally cruel . Let's add that the " paradise keepers " will do anything to protect their territory , even to kill . . . Nevertheless , the movie enjoys a shiny photography that reflects brilliantly the color of the sea and the beach . Landscapes are magnificient and there's a good original soundtrack which includes Moby's porcelain . But these qualities aren't sufficient enough to save the movie . A disappointing and predictable movie and somewhere unfinished . You can blame Boyle for not revealing the reasons of Daffy's suicide .
Even the oysters are bad !	I've seen tons of Chabrol movies , about 95 % of his films and all I can see is that the proportion of duds increases in the years . Even directors deserve retirement ! The bourgeoisie dolce vita has been told told and TOLD by CC ! Enough ! I'm fed up ! It's all the more infuriating as earlier works had bite and guts going for them ( " que la bete meure " " la rupture " " la femme infidèle " ) when it wasn't pure genius ( " le boucher " ) . We feel now , and it's the last straw , a discreet charm of the bourgeoisie , he treats his bourgeois indulgently . The actors go from excellent ( veteran Suzanne Flon , in a part not worthy of herself ) to passable ( Baye is good enough in her " visiting the Poor " scenes , a pale reflection of his predecessor Claude Autant-Lara ' s " Douce " ( 1942 ) ) to dismal ( Bernard LeCoq , generally relegated to mediocre comedies , Benoit Magimel and his girlfriend - who might not or might be his cousin - ) Sign of the times : the gastronomy sequence which you can find in everything CC did , for the first time is a fiasco : the oysters , says bourgeois Magimel , are not what they used to be . If it were only the oysters . . . .
I can't understand the high popularity rating for " Red Dragon "	The title of my review says it all : I can't understand the high popularity rating for " Red Dragon " . When the movie was broadcast on French TV , I went on IMDb to check the mark : 7 , 4 out 10 ! This made me want to watch this film and the story reminded me of " the silence of the lambs " ' . At first sight , " Red Dragon " seems to be a promising movie : 1 mysterious serial killer nicknamed " the tooth fairy " ( Ralph Fiennes ) slaughters families every full moon . As a consequence , a FBI agent ( Edward Norton ) is required to track him down . Only one man can help him in his investigation : the doctor Hannibal Lecter ( Anthony Hopkins ) . A difficult task for Norton in the way he arrested this doctor a long time ago because he found out his terrible secret : Lecter is very fond of human flesh . . . From there , " Red Dragon " has all the elements to become a first class thriller in the tradition of " Silence of the lambs " . But here , nothing arouses the interest . Where does the disappointment comes from ? From several embarrassing points that handicap the film . First , Edward Norton who can't make forget Jodie Foster as an ambitious cop and his performance has got nothing stunning . Then , unlike Brett Ratner unlike Jonathan Demme is unable to create a constant climate of tension . As a result , you progressively lose interest in the plot . Given that the shortcomings override the assets , there's nothing left but one hope to save this thriller : Anthony Hopkins . Alas ! Dashed hope once again . If his threatening and penetrating countenance contributed to the success of " Silence Of The Lambs " , here in " Red Dragon " his firm and somewhat mocking face doesn't impress the audience . This last handicap finishes tarnishing the movie that you can consider as a pale copy of Demme's movie . A lifeless and tedious thriller . If " Silence of the Lambs keeps on haunting me a long time after I watched it , I have very little memories from " Red Dragon " . If you haven't watched it , you don't miss anything , really .
Sad Sade	The title is a misnomer : the movie depicts barely one year of the so-called " divin marquis " . Twas a hard time for him ' cause he was threatened by the guillotine : the quiet joys of the reign of Terror . Historically speaking , the background is rather sketchy : " the fête De l'et re supreme " , Robespierre's failed attempt to create a secular religion , his downfall , a heaven sent opportunity for showing Doctor Guillotin's sinister machine at work ( full speed ) . As far as Sade is concerned , it's a downright mediocre affair : he's waiting in a former nunnery with other nobles , a golden cage if you compare it to , say , Marie-Antoinette's or scientist Lavoisier's fates , and he exchanges futile conversations with a young virgin about death , love and other trivia . There's the obligatory " daring " scene but you've got to be patient because it's a long time before it comes on the screen . And anyway , by today's standards , can we call that risqué ? Cy Enfield's " De Sade " , which enjoys one of the lowest ratings of the IMDb , is at least entertaining , and Keir Dullea was a more credible marquis than the aging Auteuil . And it featured John Huston .
A far cry from Chabrol ' s great works .	Patricia Highsmith's " cry of the owl " was not her best or even among her best ; we are far from triumphs such as " the talented Mister Ripley " " Ripley's game " or " strangers on a train " . But it was an interesting psychological study , focusing on a man who thought that , whatever he might do , he was bound to fall and he would even bring bad luck to his human pals . Like a lot of HIghsmith ' s characters , he was a neurotic , who could not fit in the " normal world " , with a heavy guilt feeling and a touch of masochism . Chabrol's screenplay is very faithful to the novel , keeping even the last line , but it's a good example of how accuracy leads to failure . The choice of Christophe Malavoy was excellent because the actor is subtle enough to convey such a despair . But Chabrol put him against a gallery of weirdos who would drive any man insane : a brunette whose behavior is completely implausible , played an unconvincing actress , Mathilda May ; a vulgar unattractive wife - Ah Stephane Audran where are you ? - ; a brute of a fiancé who seems even more irrational than the hero , it's the last straw ! On the paper the hero's thoughts and frames of mind made up for the implausibilities of the plot and built an atmosphere of ambiguity , an ambiguity which is almost totally absent in the film , in spite of Malavoy's commendable efforts . To top it all , there's an irritating part of a cop ( Kalfon ) , a la Colombo , gobbling up madeleines , and hinting at Marcel Proust as he tries to remind his unusual suspect of what he may have done . Because , like in a lot of Chabrol movies , people eat in in " le cri du hibou " . The hero and his lady friend treat themselves to some delicious crêpes suzette ( flambées ) and cassolettes of langoustines : the neurotic is also a gourmet ! And he does love the girl's home-made cookies ! Doing two movies a year , Chabrol makes frequently spotty works : such was the case of " le cri du hibou " , deservedly forgotten work , whereas the contemporary " masques " - released at the beginning of the same year - was a brilliant film noir turned almost farce .
Jackstraw	Released at a time when Duvivier was going again from strength to strength . " Black Jack " which was sandwiched between the overlooked extraordinary " Au Royaume des Cieux " and the dazzling stunning " Sous Le Ciel de Paris " , is a jumble , which Duvivier himself hated , which is not surprising . There's almost nothing to write about this dud . We can notice that : 1 . Orson Welles used to admire Duvivier . That may explain why Wellesian actors were featured in Duvivier's movies : Joseph Cotten in " Lydia " ( 1941 ) , and here a totally wasted Agnes Moorehead . It's the first timeI have not enjoyed Moorehead's performance ! On the other hand , Welles borrowed his Desdemona ( Suzanne Cloutier ) from Duvivier's " Au Royaume des Cieux " for his " Othello " . 2 . In any Duvivier's movie , there's one or two worthwhile sequences and this one is no exception : the search in the caves where Duvivier's sense of mystery works wonders ( for a short while ) ; then the chase when Dalio gets caught up in the fishnets . Duvivier's touch can be felt in the unhappy end too . As for the rest , as my dear pen pal writer's reign writes , it's a black joke .
disappointment reigns	After two delicious feature-length movies , " Life is a long quiet river " ( 1988 ) and " Tatie Danielle " ( 1990 ) , Etienne Chatiliez's career followed a descending slope : " le bonheur est dans le pré " ( 1995 ) hadn't the verve of the two previous movies anymore and " Tanguy " ( 2001 ) in spite of a malicious humor that kicked the bull's eye was a movie with exaggerated features . It isn't this new flick " la confiance règne " which will try to show the contrary . Besides , I ask myself a question : what has happened to Etienne Chatiliez ? He isn't the same man at the time of " life is a long quiet river " . If in this new opus , we find again his favorite topics like middle-class , family or education of the children , all the features that contributed to impose Chatiliez's peculiar comical style are largely absent or barely highlighted by the screenplay . Worse , they gave way to everything you don't want in a Chatiliez comedy . First , let's note down 2 main characters who quickly fall into caricature and this removes them all tenderness and liking . Secondly , Chatiliez and his scriptwriter have signed a story which constantly flirts with bad taste and it presents a quite substantial number of sequences with nearly free vulgarity . Then , comedy of repetition is threadbare and it isn't a globally poor cast which will make up the whole ( Anne Brochet has never been so bad ) . In short , the movie is spoiled by a bombastic script . Add to this , that it makes the film endless to watch and it takes guts to stand it until the end . As conclusion : this fifth movie made by a film-maker with a more and more erratic career disappoints by its absence of point of view and commitment . It's a shame because in France , many spectators are ready to rush into the first cinema when a new Chatiliez movie is launched . It means that they have complete trust in Tanguy's father to guarantee them a entertainment of quality . But here , I hope that they will realize that it is more confidence trick that Chatiliez offers them .
The slump begins with this film . . . .	I'm not like this kind of people who are going to tell you everything Marcel Carné did after his golden era ( from 1936 : Jenny to 1946 : Les Portes de la Nuit " ) was worthless . It is untrue and at least three of his post - Portes works are eminently watchable : " Thérèse Raquin " " les Tricheurs " and his bizarre " Juliette ou la Clé des Songes " . But from " Du mouron pour les Petits OIseaux " onwards , there is simply not one movie you would recommend to a young person who would like to discover the great director . Fact 1 : A first screenplay was written for Arletty who was to play the concierge Madame Communal . After a tragic accident ( because of eye drops ) , the great thespian became almost blind and had to give up acting : it was a major loss for the French cinema . Fact 2 : Another screenplay was rewritten , where the concierge's part was boiled down to a supporting act ( played by Suzanne Gabriello ) and they had to develop the other characters with mediocre results . It seems that Sigurd and Carné were influenced by colleague Duvivier who expertly used subplots , notably in his wonderful " sous le Ciel de Paris " . " Du Mouron " has no real central characters . It was perhaps some kind of " Hotel du Nord " of the sixties without a Canal Saint Matin , without a hotel , and without Arletty . There's no real atmosphere ( sic ) in this hotchpotch . For the first time in his career , Carné does not direct his actors who , left to their own device , overplay in an almost unbearable way . Take Dany Saval : her Parisian accent , her swagger , her acting , everything indicates she's been studying Arletty's parts for years . But no one is Arletty but Arletty . Suzy Delair , a marvelous actress when she was directed by Clouzot , is totally wasted . Roland Lesaffre , one of Carné's favorites ( he virtually appears in all his post - war movies ) makes himself ridiculous in his part of a Salvation Army's officer , complete with uniform . The charming old lady Jeanne Fusier-Gir is exasperating and predates " Tatie Danielle ' ( Etienne Chatiliez ) by almost thirty years . Even a now forgotten pop singer , Danny Logan , appears as a butcher's assistant . Another singer , Charles Aznavour , does not appear , but provides the music he wrote in collaboration with Georges Gavarentz : typically French early sixties music . You can save , at a pinch , all that concerns Paul " Diaboliques " Meurisse , the cop and his former accomplice . His deadpan looks survive the paucity of the ideas . Carné's fans ( and I'm part of them ) will probably disagree but frankly , sport , Carné's Antartica starts here .
Awful melodrama .	This is the first talkie by Lherbier and it has not aged well . Just coming out of the silent era , the cinema was still " filmed stage production " style . A woman ( I will not mention the name of the actress ) has an illegal son ; she used to be a music hall artist ( les Folies Bergères ) and she has had a lover ( a politician ) for many years . Now the child has become a young man and the politician's career is buoyant : he is to become a secretary ( minister ) . This nasty man is sick and tired of his lover's friends ( there is some excuse : they are unbearable ; among them , Michel Simon in a cameo ) . The lady's son , who is a journalist decides to blackmail the reluctant father-in-law . When you remember what the Americans did at the time ( the sensational " only yesterday ' by Stahl , for instance ) , the French attempt is dismal . Performances are laughable , worthy of a middle-brow show , script is inept : for instance , the hero grows up overnight from a poor brat his mother leaves home to a young dashing reporter . The scene when the mother tells her boy she was ditched - and with a six-figure check at that , like a hooker ! - is unintentionally funny as the actress complains " I'm suffering ! I'm so suffering ! How could he do this to me ? " Stupid ending , which all melodrama lovers will dislike ( and I'm part of them ) . Awful melodrama .
Nothing in sight	André Roussin was a specialist of what the French call " Theatre de Boulevard " : plays where you find the eternal triangle : man / wife / ( male or female ) lover . Many of his plays gave Elvire Popesco some of her best parts on stage . . . . and the great actress was the main reason to watch them , for Roussin is not Sacha Guitry , by a long shot . The French audience remembers " Au Theatre Ce Soir ' . Still with me ? Roussin's plays were not made to be filmed . And this one is pretty mediocre material , even if the screenwriters call Lewis Carroll to their rescue . I like Stewart Granger and David Niven , and Ava Gardner is eye candy . But this might be their worst film , being crude , predictable - even the native's ( Bola - Bola ) intervention is ludicrous - a knockabout farce around a Menage à Trois on a desert island where Granger would be some kind of Robinson , Niven , his Friday and Gardner his girl Friday .
I'll be there for another more ambitious , pristine plan from Charlotte Church in cinema	This film , chiefly a vehicle conceived to highlight Charlotte Church at a time when she was about to relinquish classical music to jump on the bandwagon of pop ( maybe wrongly ) didn't last long at its opening in English theaters . It didn't reach the streets in France for the simple reason that if Church is celebrated abroad for having a sublime voice and sang for a good number of most momentous people around the globe , she isn't a household name in my native country . This film was broadcast a few weeks ago on French TV and it was so hurriedly , badly dubbed that it brought a sensation of false , phony . It wasn't much of a problem given the weak contents and substance of Craig Ferguson's film . The fleeting life of the film in the English theaters is hardly surprising . This reheated menu is certainly partly derived from Church's several installments in her life . The quality of her acting leaves a lot to be desired . It's true that it would take impervious ears to resist her voice and singing but it's impossible to be moved by her rather wooden acting . And she's not served by a story with little depth and is sedately scheduled in its evolution and its recesses . Just think about the staple ingredients used by Ferguson : take a has-been rock musician in limbo , make him discover that he's got a cute daughter , the result of a relationship which lasted one week-end . And this daughter has a wondrous voice , so she could take her chance in music but her mother is not ready to accept this because the clichés of rock n'roll remain stuck on her mind . I won't tell the rest but the different steps of the scenario interlock as planned to give a run-on-the-mill film . Actors act cardboard characters and the supposedly would-be droll moments fall flat ( sorry Mr . Ferguson , but you didn't manage to make me smile during your antics at the psychiatric hospital ) . And there's a bad taste editing opening the film announcing the fiasco of this well-worn tale . Some users on this site talked about the " feel-good " vibe which shrouds the film . I wasn't taken with it at all so this vibe wasn't palpable at all to me .
Delirio ?	A story which could not be less delirious . The screenplay is nothing more than that of a photo love story ( the photo love stories were very popular in Italy and in France in the fifties and the sixties : from the seventies onwards , their decline was inexorable , because of the maudlin series on TV ) . A young man visits his brother-in-law ( Raf Vallone ) and tells him he is deeply in love with a girl ( Françoise Arnoul ) who , as we will learn , has many a lover and who walked out on him . This wealthy respectable married man goes to Rome where he meets the gal in question . Is it necessary to reveal what happens next ? Haven't you guessed ? Remake of " Orage " by Marc Allégret starring Charles BOyer and Michele Morgan .
and desert movie . . .	The legion étrangère has always been a topic that makes people dream . Lots and lots of movies were made , not only in France . Here , the most famous are probably Duvivier's " la bandera " and Jacques Feyder's " le grand jeu " . Twas also one of Edith Piaf's favorite subjects of song ( le fanion de la légion , mon légionnaire ) . This is a pretty ridiculous movie . At the beginning , I was thinking it was a remake of Pierre Benoit's " l'atlantide " ( two most famous versions being Pabst ' s ( 1932 ) with Brigitte Helm-Metropolis - , and Edgar G Ulmer's ( 1963 ) ) It was certainly influenced big-time by Benoit's book . The blond officer lost in the desert who's taken in by a beautiful lady from a mysterious city of the sands , we've seen that movie before . After , Joseph Pevney and Pierre Benoit go different ways . THe director , abetted by unimaginative scriptwriters , turn what could have been a trip into the fantastic element , à la " thief of Bagdad " or " lost horizons " , into the run-of - the - mill hero-heroine-villain . The rest is so predictable : you can see where the characters are up to from a mile off . " Desert Legion " fills its quota of treasons , duels , torture , and glamour . The setting is not impressive , a two-bit cardboard desert city , and for good measure , exotic dances .
You don't change a winning team . . .	. . . that's why , the year after " Quai des Brumes " , one of Marcel Carné's best films , here they are again : Jean Gabin and Michele Morgan . The movie was recently broadcast on the French TV and it's a big disappointment , particularly coming from a scenarist like Charles Spaak . First of all , the action takes place in a chocolate box Australia ( they tell us it happens in Australia , we would never guess ) . Gabin has killed a man , and of course he did not mean to do such as a thing . So , he ' s got to sail away to the islands in the sun ( a permanent feature in the thirties French cinema ) . Morgan , who appears only in the second half , committed a murder too . A policeman is hot on their heels . And to crown it all , there's an influenza epidemic . Enough is enough ! There are more holes in the plot than in Swiss cheese . Gabin and Morgan were to make a third movie together , and that last one was successful : " Remorques " by Jean Gremillon , a few years later .
Back to family life . . .	Pierre Joliver's works often mix fantastic with daily life . His most exciting work , " simple mortal " was an impressive sci-fi work without the special effects paraphernalia . Most of his other works , although ambitious , fail because of weak endings and cast ( Alan Bates is the only real actor in " force majeur " the end of which takes the easy way out anyway ) and absurd ideas ( why the Middle Ages in " le frère du guerrier " ? ) Although praised by the critic at time of release , and in spite of a really good thespian ( Pierre Arditi who recalls sometimes Serge Reggiani ) , it has not worn well . A cop ( who is also a writer whose works are ridiculed by the publishers ( " Have you ever read " Madame Bovary " ? ) and his partner ( " your book resembles " Madame Bovary " ) comes back to Paris to be confronted with a married again father - with a woman who could be his daughter - , and brother , brother-in-law and sister who ' re doing very bad things unbeknownst to him . . Strange dreams à la Luis Bunuel ( the hero's climbing a mountain while a voice over is begging him " please come down ! ) and a two sequences at the railway station which verge on fantastic ( the clowns scene is particularly disturbing ) promise something disturbing , unexpected twists . . . But the Pandora's box is empty and the story is so trite that it does not even improve on Gilles Grangier's " 125 rue Montmartre " . It would have taken a writer of another calibre altogether , someone like Patricia Highsmith who wrote a novel ( " Ripley goes underground " ) on a similar subject ( fake paintings ) which is highly superior to Jolivet's script . Is it a coincidence if we can see one of Highsmiths ' books ( " that sweet sickness " ) on Arditi's bed ? Another problems lies in Arditi's family : all the characters are cardboard only Arditi is trying . " Leon " ' s numerous fans might be pleased to see Jean Reno play a deadpan cop . The others will rather choose Jolivet's " simple mortal " .
Don't look back , Mrs Lot !	Don't look back , viewer either ! It was obviously intended to match the scale and quality ( and commercial success ) of Cecil Blount De Mille's " ten commandments " . So they gave Stewart Granger the Mosis / Heston look , they hire a cast of thousands ( of hundreds more like ) and they looked into the Bible to find ideas . Sodom and Gomorrah episode was tailor-made , but it was short , hardly two pages in Genesis . So they spread it to mammoth proportions , take a few - a very few - of proper nouns and presto ! here is another epic . Actually only fifteen to twenty minutes ( and I'm generous ) belong to the holy writ : the beginning when Abraham and Lot part , then the coming of the angels in Lot's dungeon ( actually the Bible says : Lot was sitting at the gate of the town ) . They spared us what the gentle people of Sodom wanted to do with the angels , and what Lot's lovely daughters made with their father after Mrs Lot's tragic end . For what remains , that is to say the core of the movie , it is a desultory story mixing up sadism , a strong quota of orgies , tortures , all kinds of torture , under Queen Anouk Aimée's watchful eye , with Lot's finer feelings . This good actress had never been so ridiculous before , and she's never been since . So is Stanley Baker who plays his vicious wicked brother . But maybe they had understood the only way to get away with this laughable script was overplaying . Stewart Granger tries to make up the absurdity of the intentions with a great sparing of gestures and words , the right thing to do : he remains full of dignity , no small feat ! The writers made Lot a widower when the story begins , so he can marry beautiful ( but sinful ) Pier Angeli . On the plus side , the war between the tribes is effective thanks to the tight editing . But Aldrich is no De Mille , and he's better at so many other things : it's strange he may have agreed to direct that ( even with Leone's help ) . He went back to making great movies with his subsequent effort " whatever happened to Baby Jane ? "
Heroes ?	It's difficult , while watching this Giovanni flick , not to think of Jacques Becker's " le trou " ( 1959 ) , the script of which he wrote . But whereas the heroes of Becker's masterpiece were digging a hole to escape from jail , the " heroes " of " les egouts " are digging a tunnel to rob a bank . The characters are not endearing , former firebrands , although the lead rather recalls some kind of " true life " Arsène Lupin , but a humorless Lupin . One does not see why one should take an interest in those men ( and woman ) . Robin Hoods , they definitely are not . NB . Another version was made at about the same time " the great Riviera bank robbery " starring Ian McShane . The two versions were drastically different since that one showed the hero's paramilitary activities .
Routine thriller .	" The negociator " takes two topics : hostage-taking incidents and financial wheeling dand dealings in the police , neither of which is that much very exciting nowadays , threadbare indeed . The first ingredient was already in William Wyler's " desperate hours " ( 1955 ) and reached its peak with Sidney Lumet's " Dog Day Afternoon " ( 1975 ) ( Just compare Al Pacino's shakespearian rendering with Jackson's Willis-like superman gesticulating . ) As for the second topic , it's hackneyed as well . The suspense is not hitchcockian , that's the least you can say : you can see through it . You know , for instance , right from the start , that Jackson did not kill his hostage ( why would he have gagged him is such had been the case ? ) Never Hitchcoch would have allowed himself the final coup de theatre concerning Kevin Spacey's character . This great actor deserves better than this would-be " intelligent " part . He proved it in " usual suspects " and Eastwood's underrated " midnight in the garden . . " Poor female parts , as almost always in contemporary cinema , alas ! . Laura's character does not seem to interest the director to the smallest extent . And however , she's the victim ' s wife ! Jackson's wife role consists of crying , groaning and slapping ( Spacey ) when she's not reduced to a walk-on .
the crew that made this supposedly fantastic thriller wasn't gifted at all !	Possible spoilers . . . Nowadays , psychological fantastic is a cinematographic genre that is so much successful that several film-makers ( who aren't however specialized in this domain ) tried their hand at it . Some of them perfectly succeeded their conversion like Adrian Lyne with " Jacob's Ladder " ( 1990 ) while others failed : " What Lies Beneath " was a disappointment in Robert Zemeckis ' work . Sadly , with " the Gift " ( 2000 ) , Sam Raimi definitely belongs to the second category . Before watching the movie I didn't expect much of it because I had already quite bad reviews about it . I was right and it isn't difficult to define the reasons why this film badly works . First , " the Gift " suffers from a patchy cast . If I am touched by Cate Blanchett and Hilary Swank's sensitive performances , on another hand , Sam Raimi made a mistake by hiring Keanu Reeves . He acts a violent and racist character which makes him disagreeable right away . His pitiful performance spoils the movie and you can really regret his role as Neo in " the Matrix " ( 1999 ) . The failure of " the Gift " also comes from the screenplay . It was partly written by Billy Bob Thornton and it doesn't carry much weight . It consists of a thin plot that has nothing special . Sorry Mr Thornton but we have already seen the trick of the wrong culprit many times before . Furthermore , it isn't really a suspense story that Thornton designed . We can quite easily guess the person who is responsible for the murder of Jessica King from the beginning of the movie . Indeed , at this moment , Katie Holmes asks Cate Blanchett if she and her husband will have a bright future . I can't remember very well what she can see but I know it wasn't hopeful visions . Then , the same Katie Homes dates with quite numerous men in the small town . It is enough to make her husband angry . Due to this , it is very tempting to think that an important part of the film is nearly padding . It seems that Thornton did everything to leave the story a little low-key so as to leave the best in the last sequences of the film . But given that you guessed the real culprit , they fall flat . Besides , the end of the film is no good because the scriptwriters have succumbed to a fashion : to amaze the spectator by inserting a " coup de théâtre " . But it is so hokey that it doesn't make the end of the film convincing . If he perfectly succeeds in recreating a Southern atmosphere thanks to the scenery , the landscapes , the mentality of the inhabitants and even the music , Sam Raimi fails to impose a disturbing climate . It is embarrassing for a supposedly fantastic movie . All right , there are a few frightening moments , but unfortunately too rare , they don't enable the movie to take off . Then , a quality that you could attribute to Sam Raimi is that through the years , he had found his own style without the help from Hollywood which had made him a recognizable director as the cult horror movie " Evil Dead " ( 1981 ) and the excellent detective movie " A Simple Plan " ( 1998 ) testify . Here , he gives the impression of having shooting " the Gift " with Hollywood presence on his back . Several passages in the film clearly show it and I will retain this one : the inevitable trial sequence . " Ultimately , " the Gift " is a very impersonal and disappointing movie where Raimi , once an iconoclastic film-maker lost his credibility in Hollywood mainstream . One last thing , the meeting Raimi-Thornton-Blanchett doesn't necessarily shine .
Cheesy	In the second half of the fifties , Henri Decoin's natural flair for film noir was slowly but inexorably fading away . " Le Feu aux Poudres " is a mediocre flick but what was to come later was worse , a dreadful spate of turkeys : only maybe " Malefices " based on a Boileau / Narcejac novel would deserve to be watched but it is currently impossible to find it ; there are also good scenes in the first " Chatte " but that's about it . " Le Feu aux poudres " is another gangsters movie . It deals with arms dealing and it is obvious that Peter Van Eyck has an almost worthless part : he is given one scene to shine , when he tells Pellegrin about " man who will always kill for it is his nature " : for a short while , Decoin regains his pessimism which made " Non Coupable " " La File Du Diable " or " La Verite sur Bebe Donge " great films noirs . Apart from that , the audience will visit Roquefort village with its cellars full of the famous cheese , and there's a funny scene when Lino Ventura and his pal , the cops , try to make Charles Vanel say ( they are recording a tape to fool his accomplices ) " Demain Il Sera Trop Tard " ( Tomorrow will be too late ) . Françoise Fabian , an earnest thespian has a decorative part and Raymond Pellegrin is wasted .
The more you pay , the more it's worth ?	I have my doubts . " Le pacte des loups " , French biggest budget so far , tries so hard to " sound American " - or should I say , hollywoodian - that sometimes we forget that the action takes place during Louis the Fifteenth's reign in France . The first part is relatively watchable , because of the splendid landscapes , enhanced by a brilliant cinematography . But the characters are uninteresting and the leads lack charisma . Samuel Le Bihan cannot hold a candle to the late Jean Marais , who remains , even today , the model of the genre for this kind of swashbuckler . The same goes for Monica Belucci whose adventuress character is lacklustre . But the biggest flaw is the Indian whom the hero " imported " from Canada ( probably inspired by the Saracen whom Costner took to his native England in " Robin Hood , prince of thieves " ) . The second half is a disaster although it begins well enough in Versailles where we are told that the beast is dead . But the hero is not prepared to accept it and a voice - over warns us that what we're going to see now is not written in history books ( in case some moron could take it seriously ) . The prize goes , so to speak , to the beast , some kind of " tarasque " , an imaginary monster which we find in the legends of the south of France : the special-effect crew apparently worked with pieces of cardboard , some string and a box of scotch tape . As for the duels , they resemble karate fights , which is the last straw ! The movie itself looks like a video game in which the hero is never hung . The poor script involves the de rigueur brothel scene , the obligatory romantic love affair , the umpteenth wicked brother and the obvious guillotine scene ( it's poor Jacques Perrin's turn this time ) - even if we do not see Docteur's Guillotin's sinister invention .
a little game in which the viewer is the loser	Bernard Rapp passed away last year and was a very cultured journalist . Cinema was one of his biggest passions ( he penned a vast worldwide dictionary of films ) and so he was bound to wield a camera at least one time in his life . But the films he left garnered lukewarm reviews : " Tiré à Part " ( 1996 ) in spite of Terence Stamp's sensational performance was very caricatured in the depiction of the characters , " une Affaire De Goût " ( 2000 ) was a slick affair even if Bernard Giraudeau delivered a perverse performance , " Pas Si Grave " ( 2003 ) was another let-down and " un Petit Jeu Sans Conséquence " is as underwhelming as its predecessors . Its comic potential is exploited in a flimsy way . And however , the starting idea let predict a twirling , spiritual comedy . A couple held by Yvan Attal and Sandrine Kiberlain who invited their friends is in full moving in a lascivious mansion . To play with their guests , they pretend to part company with each other . And things don't go as planned because the announcement of their separation doesn't surprise them . The two lovers start to ponder about the validity of their couple . In spite of lush scenery and the promising material he had at his disposal , Rapp's undistinguished directing can't manage to give life to this game with unexpected consequences . The plot follows a well-worn pattern with characters who have specific well-known functions and masks that are unveiled about who they really are . Verbal or situation comic effects often fall flat . A bad editing fades a little more the film with this bad habit from Rapp to abruptly cut many sequences . Even the actors ' sincere input in the venture is debatable . They seem to be bored and to recite their texts than to live them , especially Sandrine Kiberlain . The audience is soon caught in a deep torpor . It's regrettable to say it : Bernard Rapp's films never lived up to his intentions as " un Petit Jeu sans Conséquence " bears witness .
Who are they ? Where do they come from ? Where do they go ?	I think that " les parasites " is a hypocritical movie . Worse , it's a movie that doesn't focus on the main topic at all . However , the title of the movie is sufficient enough to draw the attention to the movie . You expect to see a place and a precise time ( here it happens to be a New Year's Eve party ) turned upside down by a band of parasites . Such a topic would have demanded a caustic and malicious humor . Well , at the end you're far short of the target . This New Year's Eve party is eventually like the ones you know . It means with slight rows from certain guests and without any major incidents . Moreover , you can't really say that they are parasites through and through because they don't mean to spoil a party and we even can't define who they are . Apart from this , " les parasites " is a muddle-headed and unfinished movie . Its screenplay is labored and doesn't avoid a quite important number of stereotypes . Some abortive situations with vain dialogs and , by moments , a crude humor don't save this movie from mediocrity , neither the excessive play of nearly all the actors .
No secrets	The fifties were a great time for the French thriller ; those years saw Decoin's " La Verite Sur Bebe Donge " , Allégret's " Manèges " , Salavsky's " Les Louves " , Delannoy's unfairly overlooked " Obsession " , and to top all of them HG Clouzot's IMDb top 250 " Diaboliques " . And Duvivier's masterful " Voici le Temps Des Assassins " Claude Boissol's effort in not in the same league , by a long shot . Whatever the director tried in his short-lived career , he failed : comedy ( the crude " Julie La Rousse " ) historical drama ( Napoleon II L'Aiglon probably his best though it does not mean much ) . According to historian Jean Tulard , his most interesting work is " La Peau de l'Ours " which featured an unexpected twist as far the murderer was concerned . With first-class thespians such as Daniele Delorme ( who had just made " Voici Le Temps des Assassins " her finest performance ) , Jean Marais , Françoise Fabian and Denise Gence , De La Comédie Française , how could a director be wrong ? It must be said in his defense that the screenplay is rather weak , some kind of a poor man's Boileau - Narcejac - who wrote " Diaboliques " and " Vertigo " - ; based on a Luisa Maria Linares novel which fluctuates between film noir ( life assurance , a dead who may not be dead , two wives , one of whom might slowly go nuts , exhumation ) and Harlequin Romance story ( the affair between Delorme and Marais ) . Most of the time the dialog does not ring true , it's even sometimes unintentionally funny , and the actors seem left to their own device . Even them cannot save the film from triteness .
Boring !	Boileau-Narcejac's novels are anything but boring : everyone knows what Alfred Hitchcock and Henri-Georges Clouzot did with " d'entre les morts " and " " celle qui n'était plus " : " Vertigo " and " les diaboliques " both in the IMDb top 250 . Sergio Gobbi adapted " maldonne " and , unlike his illustrious ( and much superior ) colleagues , kept the title of the book . As the first half of the story consisted of frames of mind of the hero , Sergio Gobbi cannot find equivalents - he doesn't even use voice over - and it's a pretty boring affair which the actors ' talent ( Pierre Vaneck , Jean Topart , Robert Hossein ) or ex-Kirk Douglas's protégée Elsa Martinelli's beauty do nothing to rectify . Like in every Boileau-Narcejac plot , the hero is framed : he's got to play the part of a departed man to allow his widow to latch on to a valuable inheritance . But of course things are not what they seem . The second part , which includes black and white flashbacks ( Hossein's nightmares ) is barely more exciting than the first one . I will not tell why , because it would be a spoiler but it's stupid to have cast Hossein and Vaneck because they do not look like each other and if the plot made sense , they should .
Fortunately . . . .	. . . . the White Man is here to help the natives who are no more than big children . That says it all ! Proof positive , one more time , that finer feelings do not produce great works . De Baroncelli is not much of a director , and his two stars , Victor Francen and Harry Baur , left to their own devices , overract in a ludicrous way . . . The screenplay is terribly dull and far-fetched . Francen contracts leprosy in Africa ; he is ashamed ( why ? ) and does not listen to good doctor Baur's good piece of advice : he leaves his fiancée and disappears . But a few years later , much to the girl's surprise , he's this mysterious man who hides on a building site . Unfortunately for him , she is married now . . . .
Wonderful soundtrack but the movie is not up to scratch .	The precedent user was right : the score by Ennio Morricone - who remains one of the greatest of all - is tuneful , splendid , perfect . It's when you deal with the movie that things go wrong . . First of all , Romy Schneider - an actress I like very much though - is miscast as an Italian woman . In her diary published in the late eighties the actress wrote : " the filming had only begun when I had to strip naked for a love scene ( . . . ) I was interested in playing a very different character ( . . . ) Bevilacqua , the scriptwriter had not the slightest idea of what a movie was . We were completely lost , all of us , even Ugo Tognazzi . " The main problem , IMHO , is that the film would like to be realistic - a depiction of the factories strikes in Italy - and it has also intellectual pretensions . Sometimes it makes me think of Pasolini's " teorema " ( 1968 ) , Romy Schneider's " Califfa " replacing the Terence Stamp's angel . The scenes between Tognazzi and Schneider seem unreal . It is a dated movie , it captures the end of the sixties zeitgeist , all content and no form . But once again , the score is worth the price of admission .
The onset of " Lemming " is catchy but then it gets bogged down in oil slick	In 2000 , Dominik Moll had introduced us Harry in " With a Friend Like Harry " ( 2000 ) , a charismatic and mysterious character admirably acted by Sergi Lopez who by wishing Michel's well had managed to break his peaceful household although it was a bit on the edge on a knife . Five years later , he returned to the attack with the long-anticipated " Lemming " starring once again Laurent Lucas . This time it's not one person who is nasty to him but two offbeat people : André Dussollier and Charlotte Rampling . There's a major difference with Moll's previous opus : " Lemming " doesn't match " With a Friend Like Harry " ' s brilliance at all because it's too woolly , incoherent to hold water whereas the former work was absolutely clear in its script and didn't present the single mistake in its logical way of thinking . The movie promises great things but loses steam halfway through . It gets off to a good start with a Chabrolian aura to let the vices of a seemingly well-behaved and respectable upper-class couple show through . Even better , Moll has the capacity to create from a trite situation an ominous atmosphere which makes the viewer feel uncomfortable . Is there anything more trite than a dinner with one's boss ? But when Rampling asks Dussollier the following question : " Was it one of your b ? " , a feeling of unpleasantness invades the viewer and stays inside him or her until the middle of the film . And an eerie Charlotte Rampling excels in a part which requires ambiguity , mystery . Her motivations towards Lucas and her frail spouse Charlotte Gainsbourg remain undetermined : does she try to put an end to their love life or isn't she prey to madness ? And one could also specify that her husband as weird as her tries to make life impossible to Lucas . Perhaps , he try to split them too . Be that as it may , after this memorable evening , the movie takes the way of the fantastic and one figures that we have a first-class movie between one's hands . The making evolutes on the razor's edge , the unusual nature of the movie is slowly and softly hatched , the relationships between the characters become blurred , the strangeness of the situations alarm . . . Alas , in the middle of the course , it's downhill and the attention ends up diluting itself in the ins and outs of a convoluted and tortuous story à la David Lynch and the protagonists ' psychological drifts remove the flick all charm and all cohesion . Because it wants too much , " Lemming " loses its efficiency and the whole crew loses the plot . Moll's work is also marred by a cosy end which takes the easy way . If " With a Friend Like Harry " occupies a prominent place in my favorite movies made in 2000 , " Lemming " has a prime place in the category of the dashed hopes of 2005 . If you are a David Lynch buff , this one has your name on it and for the others : caution !
The supervisor does not work wonders , neither does the film .	This movie features a bunch of children locked up in a reform school under a nasty headmaster's thumb ; then comes a very nice human supervisor played by Noël-Noël . And presto , the naughty brats become angels with golden voices who set up a choir , and the distinguished old ladies who visit the school are on cloud nine , well , you get the picture . First thing to bear in mind is that these children were professional singers : all of them were part of " les petits chanteurs à la croix de bois " ( the little singers with the wooden cross ) , so do not be fooled , the supervisor is not in any way responsible for their prowesses . Well the plot is not unlike " going my way " , except that the main actor is not a singer like Bing Crosby . This mushy weepie , which seems sometimes unbearable - but not more than , say , " dead poets society " - , is typical Occupation cinema , the likes of " le voile bleu " . It's a return to good old morality : individuality is condemned , everyone must be part of the group , the choir becoming a transparent metaphor . The ending in the church is almost sirkesque . Remade ( or almost ) as " les choristes "
Boileau - Narcejac or the victim's detective story .	Boileau-Narcejac's novels are deceptive : it is hard to make a truly bad film from them while being harder still to really succeed . Theirs is the victim's detective story , their permanent feature not only in the present work " les victimes " . It ' s always the story of a hero being framed ( generally a man ) , and what lies beneath is often " cherchez la femme " . Two directors brilliantly succeeded in adapting Boileau-Narcejac : of course Alfred Hitchcock who turned " d'entre les morts " into " vertigo " and Henri-Georges Clouzot who made " Diabolique " out of " celle qui n'était plus " . Both they completely rewrote the novels and transcended them while keeping the writers ' s suspense . It is proof positive that these Boileau-Narcejac novels , which are much fun to read ( I'm a fan ) need something else , a good scriptwriter when transferred to the screen . And a good cast does not hurt either - see Hitchcock and Clouzot - . " les victimes " lacks almost everything : while it holds water on the paper it needs something else on the screen . Directing is ineffective and is almost unable to generate true fear . What ' s worst is this inability to use the North Africa landscapes . Also handicapped by an undistinguished cast ( whereas the two masterpieces I mention above had James Stewart , Kim Novak , Simone Signoret etc ) with a wooden Jacques Dutronc as the worst of them all . Man ( Lindon ) in love with a married woman ( Viard ) leaves for North Africa to meet the hubby ( Dutronc ) - he pretends he wants to write a book about his architect work . Super ! The wife is to come too . But alas , when she arrives , it's not THE woman he knows and loves . What do you suppose THAT means ? We are still waiting for a third director who could do another masterpiece from a Boileau-Narcejac novel .
Gimme back my mum !	Perkins brought out all the Hitchcock equipment and tried to recapture all that " psycho II " failed to do : the essence of the greatest thriller of all time . A cat that would try to catch its tail perhaps could in the end . It would take some time . " Psycho III " is a jumble where all the ideas are taken from Robert Bloch's story , from the mummy / mummy to the car into the water to the " conversations " . The one new " element " so to speak is a novice who gives up taking her vows . Which unintentionally turns very funny when Virgin Mary is involved ( Yes I saw her behind the window ! ! ! ) . To Perkins's credit , I must point out that the cinematography is effective sadly unsupported by a weak script and a generally mediocre cast . The made-for-TV " Psycho IV " , which focuses on Bates ' childhood , is more successful , thanks to Olivia Hussey whose portrayal ( once more ) of mum is convincing . And as Hussey played Virgin Mary in Zephirelli's " Jesus " , you see the connection . . .
Justice is unfair . . .	. . . to the Rich . That might be the obnoxious moral of this Jose Giovanni film . The director was more inspired when he directed Delon in " Deux Hommes Dans la Ville " , which was a strong plea against death penalty or even later in " Mon Père . . Il M'a sauvé La Vie " A former gangster ( Delon ) is on the right track again . He has become a wealthy man . Unfortunately , his beloved son kills a cop . And the judge has no pity on the poor rich kid . The father will sacrifice everything he ' s got to save him . Even Suzanne Flon , cast as the policeman's widow cannot , save the flick . Besides , slow motions which were trendy in the FRench cinema of the seventies are almost unbearable . Get " Deux Hommes Dans la Ville " instead .
a story with little substance supposedly compensated by special effects and a dark cinematography	Peter Hyams's career followed an indisputable downswing in the nineties during which he came to direct mediocre vehicles for Jean Claude Van Damme such as " Timecop " ( 1994 ) , " Sudden Death " ( 1995 ) or for Arnold Schwarzenegger with the ludicrous " End of Days " ( 1999 ) . It's all the more dismaying as he signed ambitious works a long time ago like " Capricorn One " ( 1978 ) or " Star Chamber " ( 1983 ) . The difference of quality between them and the recent efforts is glaring . " The Relic " finds itself between " Sudden Death " and " End of Days " and if it's a little more palatable and watchable than these two turkeys , it's far from being a classy B movie . A horrendous creature haunts a museum in search of human brain to keep its vitality and its strength . Visibly influenced by the " Alien " saga and " Die Hard " , the plot follows an ultra-mapped , stale scheme with archetypal characters like the young , ambitious scientist ( Penelop Ann Miller ) or the steady cop ( Tom Sizemore ) . Do you realize it required 6 scenarists to pen it ? It is very plagued in its second half when all the guests are in the museum because of an incessant and eventually irritating use of a dark cinematography applied to the scenery of the museum . Hyams is also responsible of the cinematography and if this method is in itself commendable to make his film chilly , it also hampers it in the sense that very often we can't see properly what's going on on the screen . It could lead to some plot holes or irregularities . The film couldn't be complete without indispensable special effects which aren't too intrusive , except in the end . The monster is as credible as spooky and these qualities redeem a little this little , reheated product . But you'd better watch again or discover Hyams ' works produced at the end of the seventies or at the dawn of the eighties to realize his true potential as a filmmaker .
Breathless transporter	Bonnardot was obviously anxious to prove that he too could be like the big boys of the New Wavelet ; seen today his " Ballade pour un Voyou " sounds like a parboiled cross between Godard ' s notorious " A Bout de Soufflé " and " the transporter " this mediocre Luc Besson production . Vincent Vivant ( = Vincent Alive " ) has to cross a boarder with a suitcase containing a very special thing . And of course he must not open this piece of luggage for it might explode and make mincemeat of him . But as anyone past infancy knows ( or should know ) , rules are made to be broken , so . . The actors cannot make up for the paucity of the script which features undecipherable scenes at the airport . Laurent Terzieff and German thespian Hildegarde Knef have ( so to speak ) one scene together in all ; Philippe Noiret is wasted as a cop who tries to save the hoodlum .
Actually a Henry James short story . .	. . which features , like " the turn of the screw " - which Jack Clayton adapted for the screen under the title " the innocents " ( 1961 ) - , a private tutor and a child . But unlike Clayton's unforgettable movie , there is nothing supernatural here . The film begins quite well , in a castle where ruined aristocrats eat macaroni in porcelaine . The young actor shines as the whizz kid who knows Latin grammar by heart and never had one friend before his teacher came . Particularly successful is the night scene which displays the child's strange culinary preparations . But when the family has to leave the desirable castle , it's downhill and even the ending - which is not even faithful to James - does not redeem " l'élève " . The film becomes a hodgepodge ( hotchpotch ) which fails totally to convince : from the ball with the old contessa to the French cancan in a brothel , what nonsense . Fair-haired ( dyed ) Vincent Cassel is rather ugly , and is outshadowed by his young co-star .
rather less . . .	Like many other people , I've heard about " more " and I wanted to watch it due to the music that was composed by Pink Floyd . I must say that I was truly disappointed , not because of the music but the movie in itself . it's a boring insipid movie that lacks rhythm . Where does this disappointment come from ? According to me , from different things . First of all , the movie's subject , the drug links up badly with the idle sunny atmosphere of the movie . This one should have taken place in the sordid areas of Paris and should have gave birth to a dark and helpless climate , for example . Moreover , it's supposed to tell a descent into hell but this descent is softened and barely sketched out . Barbet Schroeder doesn't insist enough on the dramatic side of the story . You could have wished a little more of madness , cutting . On another hand , Schroeder doesn't succeed in gaining the audience's emotion and adherence in front of the two main characters ' distress . You watch carelessly their trials with drug . Whereas the two main actors , they're perfectly inexpressive and hardly evolve during the movie , especially Mimsy Farmer . At the end , you only retain the beauty of the mediterraneans landscapes bathed in sunlight . The film created a huge sensation when it was released in 1969 . Nowadays , it seems dated . The hippy culture is nothing less than a faraway memory .
Choderlos de Laclos and our times .	When Stephen Frears made his much superior version , not only he cast two great thespians ( Glenn Close and JOhn Malkovich ) but he did not transpose the action to our times . Neither did Milos Forman for that matter . This movie repeats Roger Vadim's colossal mistake of the sixties ( " les liaisons dangereuses 1960 " ) , which cheapens the novel . What was amazing , disturbing and ahead of its time in Laclos ' s novel was that Madame de Merteuil , who lived in the eighteenth century , had the mind and the psychology of a contemporary woman . In our times , this character becomes banal , to put it mildly . You can find lots and lots of Kathryn Merteuil ( sic ) and Sebastian Valmont ( re-sic ) without calling Choderlos de Laclos to the rescue . IF you have read the book and you want to see a good adaptation , take the Frears one . If you want another adolescent movie , well . . . .
The omens	" The seventh sign " borrows a lot from " Rosemary's baby " and " the omen " ( it actually blends the two stories ) . Even its title recalls Bergman ' s " the seventh seal " . Nevertheless , it begins well enough , with all the omens scattered on the whole earth , and in parallel , a - seemingly - distinct plot with Moore's husband trying to save a poor boy ( who killed his parents who were brother and sister ) from death penalty . This time , both Christian and Jewish religions are called to the rescue ( even the Wandering Jew is involved ) , which makes the lines sometimes unintentionally funny ( Have you ever been to Sunday school ? But they taught me that God was love ! ) . The best scene IMHO , is the short dialog between priest John Heard - who does not seem to take things seriously , too bad he was not given a more important part because his laid-back acting is priceless-and the young Jew . Demi Moore probably registered the same desire as ex-husband Bruce Willis : saving the world . She does not save the movie for all that .
You shall be a man my son .	At first sight , this is an entertaining movie . But what lies beneath is a very obnoxious moral , and the final lines on the screen before the final cast and credits are a dubious proof that this voyage made men of the youngsters . Far from his beautiful character of " fearless " , Bridges portrays here a macho man - he does not even share a tear for his wife , who does anyway ? - : the way Scott introduces him is , so to speak , worth the price of admission . This is the umpteenth version of " you shall be a man my son " in the grand tradition of " captain courageous " , but that was then and this is now , and time has taken its toll : such a manly story has become obsolete today . That said , the storm scene is wonderfully filmed , which is the least we can expect from Ridley Scott .
A brothel ? Really ?	Another movie about the white slave trade , a subject the French cinema was fond of : in the thirties Robert Siodmak made " Le Chemin De Rio " aka " Cargaison Blanche " . The working title of " Les Impures " was " Des Femmes Disparaissent " ( Women vanish ) and this title would be used for another movie about the same subject by Edouard Molinaro starring Robert Hossein in 1959 . That said , it's not good news : two excellent leads , Raymond Pellegrin and Micheline Presles are lost in a story unworthy of their talent . There are enormous gaffes : how can Michèle , who works in a nightclub as a chanteuse / Cancan dancer , be so naive ? How can she believe that her love " undergoes a period of training " ? . It depends on what kind of training it is , mind you . Many of the scenes are good for a laugh . Barely .
Violent and absurd thriller .	Yves Boisset has always been a director with a political obsession . IN the seventies , he hit his stride with such work as " RAS " , " Dupont-Lajoie - ( which will probably remains his best work - and even " le juge Fayard dit le shériff " . Afterward , his filmography became more disparate , but his ambitions surfaced again in " allons enfants " ( 1981 ) and in his excellent made-for-TV " le pantalon " ( 1997 ) . " Le saut de l'ange " , on the other hand , has almost nothing to recommend it ; for the time is was an extremely violent movie , which actually recalls more Boisset's first effort , " Coplan sauve sa peau " ( 1967 ) than his " serious " political films . A far-fetched script , which includes a lot of sadism ( a man with his two legs broken given over to a cobra , ouch ! ) , and all kinds of crimes and brutality under a caricature of a police ' s faraway eye . No need to say that the political background is quickly forgotten , as the audience follows Yanne's ruthless revenge . The cast is absurd : the late Yanne , a decorative Senta Berger , and Sterling Hayden who is completely wasted - he's supposed to be an alcoholic , but we never see him drink anything , not even Perrier - .
deadly vehicle round 2	From the eighties onwards , it became trendy to adapt one of the most prolific and popular American writers , Stephen King for the silver screen and the telly . I must say that I'm not a devotee of his work at all . Ditto for John Carpenter whose filmography didn't embellish the horror / fantasy genre except maybe at a pinch : " Halloween " ( 1978 ) . The tenet of a cursed vehicle that gives the ones who have the misfortune to stand in its way a hard time isn't novel . Steven Spielberg's debut movie , " Duel " ( 1971 ) revolved around the same thrust with the difference that it was an enormous truck instead of a car that tracked down Dennis Weaver and the film was gripping in its dramatic progression . Spielberg's making nearly evolved on the razor's edge and " Duel " is one of his finest cinematographic moments to date . And his movie kept a part of mystery : was there really a driver in the truck or not ? In Carpenter's flick , this zone of shadow is clarified : " Christine " is possessed by devilish forces and can drive ( and mend ) itself . Carpenter's film is nearly a rehash of Spielberg's film . Yes , technically the director keeps an attentive eye on his work and his efforts on the camera work , lighting , tightened scenery are palpable with some spooky special effects in the bargain : when the car turns on the radio to play some rock n'roll music of the fifties / sixties or mends itself , it gives goose pimples . But the film is handicapped by a weak scenario which doesn't carry much weight . Take a timid , hung-up teenager named Arnie who is the scapegoat of the riff-Raff of his high-school , make him fall in love with an old car which epitomizes an exit to a sultry familial household , change his behavior and then . . . Well what to expect ? Nearly nothing as soon as we make the acquaintance of the main characters of the film and their various relationships with Arnie and his car . The story is as linear , predictable as one could wish . Hence an absence of dramatic progression . But there's perhaps this ambiguous ( and positive ) side all the same : is Arnie really in love with " Christine " ? Isn't he rather manipulated by her ? And still this tepid music that Carpenter persists in writing . If you want a good dose of shivers with a deadly vehicle , why not doing justice to Spielberg's film ?
Annie Girardot back to jail . .	One of her earlier parts , " mourir d'aimer " ( André Cayatte , 1970 ) , based on a true story led her to jail . Here again , she plays one of the unfortunate inmates who make teddy bears to earn some money In jail . The " prison for women " is a very hard subject to deal with , and here the director was not up to scratch , leaving the actresses free to put on their usual little act . Best part does not come from Girardot though , but from Marie-Christine Barrault ( an AA winner for " cousin cousine " 1975 ) as a chief warder : her portrayal is not unlike that of Louise Fletcher in " one flew over the cuckoo's nest " . Charlotte Silvera , the director said : " they try to make the prisoners passive submissive women , losing any desire , any longing . . . " Perhaps so , but with few exceptions like Jacques Becker's " le trou " , French movies about prisons are not particularly memorable .
Quine and Wilder .	Richard Quine sems here to pay a tribute to Billy Wilder : " some like it hot " and Jack Lemmon are mentioned several times , and Tony Curtis ' presence is eloquent . But , by doing so , Quine recalls us the gulf between him and " the seven years itch " director . All what Quine says , Wilder has already said it , in such works as the two mentioned masterpieces . Just compare the ponderous " dirty paper " scenes of " sex . . " and the covers of the " dirty " covers of the books in " seven years itch " . Compare the endless and tiresome final to-ings and fro-ings of " sex . . . " ( tedious car chase ) with the stunning final chase - and I won't even compare the dialogs ; after all , nobody's perfect - in " some like it hot " . Assuming this to be the case , you can however find some pleasure in watching " sex . . . " , particularly in the first part , very " light comedy as performed in the theatres of the Paris Boulevards " , à la George Feydeau . The " babe shrink and hunk " scenes are often funny and Natalie Wood is hilarious when she says she's like Curtis ' father ! The mistakes ( " quiproquos " ) add fuel to the plot , when Wood is confronted with three Curtis ' wife . The pair Wood / Curtis operates well . But Laureen Bacall overacts and Henry Fonda is ill - at - ease in a comedy . I would like to point out Wilder's superiority over Quine . The latter stretches his gags till they become really heavy . ( for instance , the policeman who wants to arrest everybody ) , the former uses concision to a fault ( the final dialog between Lemmon and Brown in " some like it hot " ) . And , mainly there's a sense of madness in Wilder's work which Quine is unable to sustain .
USFO	Unidentified Sci-Fi Object . What is it ? An update of Boorman's " duel in the Pacific " ? A remake of " Robinson Crusoe on Mars " ? But if it's so , who's Robinson ? and who's Friday ? A pean to universal fraternity ? Or most likely , in the last third , some kind of Rambo fighting alone against his own race to save an alien's offspring ? Well it could be of that but it amounts to almost nothing . It would have done a very funny parody , had Petersen focused his movie on Dennis Quaid's undeniable deadpan sense of humor . Alas , the director wants to be taken seriously . And he accumulates unlikelihoods , clichés and involuntary comic sequences . It takes hardly one day to the Drak to speak fluent English , complete with nuances . Shame on Quaid who speaks only broken dracon language ! Another flaw , one of the most frequent in sci-fi is the " humanity " of the E . T . : the eyes , the look , the swagger , even the language . Stanley Kubrik did know that danger , he who refused to show the e . t . , in his masterful 2001 . ( Like it or not , 2001 , remains the reference for grand art in sci-fi ) The baddies seem to come from the lousiest comic strip you can think of . The dialogue is ridiculous ; Drac Baby to Quaid : - I wish I could have a face like yours , Uncle . Thanks to this brightly thought out line , Uncle feels avenged . The Drac Brat's parent ( yes , it's singular , Dracs insist on that ) once said , aping ( no pun ) Zira , telling Taylor in a sci-fi classic : " You're too ugly " .
Amsterdamned again !	When a so called lovable little girl is involved in a suspense story , what do you expect ? Certainly not the unexpected ! You can see in her eyes that the villains will not get the upper hand . The more helpless she seems , the stronger she is when danger comes around . Dumb but not dumb ! The supporting cast is wasted : William Hurt is cast as the father and all he has to do is wait ; Jennifer Tilly ' s part is not much more exciting : all she's got to do is bemoan over her unfortunate daughter's fate . You will guess who pulls the string as soon as that villain appears on the screen . Only the first scenes in the hotel can , at a pinch , generate some suspense . But after that , it's downhill . The worst is that horrible " singer " , pedophile at that ! On the other hand , Dennis Leary's junkie is quite nice . Get " Amsterdamned " instead !
They do it with mirrors ( so no mirrors in my house ) .	Correct me if I'm wrong but I would venture that too many people could say they look to " skeleton key " for New Horizons in the fantasy and horror films . Still with me ? Then I'm prepared to say that you will not be disappointed with this film ; shucks , you will probably even like it . The presence of two very earnest actors ( Gena Rowlands and John Hurt ) may fool you and thus make you think you've seen a " meaningful " work . But the latter has virtually absolutely nothing to do whereas the woman who was under the influence seems here to follow Joan Crawford ' s and Bette Davis ' footsteps in the sixties : camp . At least those actresses had decent screenplays ( sometimes ) . This one may seem original , but it is actually a mixture of elements which were already used and used and used ; titles ? Henry James ' " the turn of the screw " ( filmed as " the innocents " by Jack Clayton ) Alan Parker's " Angel Heart " , probably the best in the voodoo field and too many " body-snatcher " movies . Influence can be great if you produce something worthy such as " the others " . Not when you make a poor rehash like that .
Why ?	The most disposable movie in the history of cinema ? This one is a strong contender ! Why wasting so much money for such a pointless useless work ? The only difference between the HItchcock classic and this poor imitation is color , wide screen and Leila's Walkman ! ! A movie which's supposed to generate thrills and fear leaves me completely indifferent . No you ' re going to tell me it will urge the young generations to see the original ? balderdash ! This " psycho 1998 " is a giant spoiler . They could have done something different , for instance , by casting an actor closer to Bloch ' s Bates , an obese man . They content themselves with an obnoxious rehash ! A pox on it ! and long live Alfred Hitchcock !
Detective story in a posh milieu	Do not let Michel Bouquet's presence fool you . Yes , he was the prototype of the bourgeois Chabrolesque character at the turn of the decade , bourgeois people the director of " la femme infidèle " or " la rupture " despised . Chabrol's bite is terribly lacking here . " La main à couper " is nothing more than a very trite detective story , including adultery , blackmail , murder . . . Hélène , an antique dealer lives in a desirable property in the chic Neuilly with her husband and her two children . This respectable family will be involved in very dirty things , but do not panic . . . Périer's film actually praises the discreet charm of the bourgeoisie .
Blast from the past	When we were children , we swore we'd always remember : our school teacher was killed during WW2 by the Nazis , because of an informer . When we grew up , we would kill this b . . . . . . Now they are grown-ups , and only one of them seems to want to see it through . The others ' objections are numerous : " he " was only 17 when " he " did it ; we should kill the German soldiers as well ; we were children when we swore , we did not know what we were doing . The director didn't either : the story takes about 15 minutes to start ; the movie is handicapped by frequent use of Angelo Branduardi's music the connection of which with the action is vague , I fear . Add a folk dance which is mostly filler . Plus pointless flashbacks . Bearing more than a distant resemblance with Julien Duvivier's " Marie - Octobre " , which I recommend .
When the actors overplay	Robert Enrico was at his best during the sixties , " les aventuriers " ( 1966 ) and " tante Zita " ( 1967 ) ; although deemed " commercial " at the time , these two works have something of a dirge . Actress Johanna Shimkus dies in the former - and her funeral under the sea is one of the most extraordinary sequence of the French cinema in the sixties - , and has to cope with her aunt's death in the latter . Both feature François de Roubaix's sublime scores . Afterwards , Enrico ' s career became eclectic and erratic : " ho " ( 1968 ) which featured Jean-Paul Belmondo and Shimkus again was clearly uninspired and " le boulevard du rhum " was not adequate a vehicle for Brigitte Bardot's career then on the wane . He won a cesar for " le vieux fusil " , but if the first third which enhances Romy Schneider's frail beauty is quite moving , what remains , the castle , complete with dungeons , secret passages and two-way mirrors , recalls Louis Feuillade's silent movies circa 1914 . " Pile ou face " recalls the worst Chabrol movies . Two stories intertwines and do not sustain interest : has a man ( Serrault ) killed his wife ? Who pulls the strings in a drug affair among the young men of means ? Robert Enrico , who directed the two great movies I mention at the beginning of my comment with taste and sensitiveness , has called it a day here . His two actors , Serrault and Noiret ( " le vieux fusil " hero ) , hog the stage and drown him out . Generally the French critics were laudatory as for their performances , but I find them boring and irritating : Noiret has never been so vulgar , he who can act with finesse . " Au nom de tous les miens " ( 1983 ) from Martin Gray did something to restore Enrico's reputation , but he never found back his state of grace of the mid-sixties .
Molinaro , the scatterbrained	" Beaumarchais , l'insolent " is definitely a disappointment . First , by reading the title , you could have thought that the movie would embrace Beaumarchais ' whole life : from his childhood until his death . Well , it's not the case . It only focuses on the most important part of Beaumarchais ' life . The one that takes place between 1775 and 1785 . During this era , Beaumarchais was an extraordinary character . Not only , was he a great French writer , but he used to have several other jobs . For example , he was a spy for the king , supporter of the Human Rights ( he took part in the writing of the Declaration of Independence ) . Unlike to Ariane Mouchkine's movie called " Molière " , here , the movie hasn't got the precision and the brilliance of the making and especially the Beaumarchais ' lucid and visionary look on the society of the eighteenth century . Moreover , the screenplay only retains the most famous sequences and cues from Beaumarchais ' full life . On another hand , Molinaro had a wrong idea by making nearly all great French actors appear in one movie . Indeed , you only see them for a few minutes ( sometimes a few seconds ! ) and generally in decorative and minor roles that don't bring anything to the movie , notably Alain Chabat . Among these actors , some of them are more specialized in comic films . So , the transition from a comic movie to an historic movie fits badly for them . At last , the movie tries more or less to introduce a certain humor but this one doesn't articulate very well with the sequences . So , it turns out to be pointless and vain . At the end , this is a low-key biography where you could have wished more contribution and harshness .
Anthony Mann ? ?	An anonymous film which could have been directed by anyone at all . Where is Anthony Mann , the director of such classics as " El Cid " " the naked spur " or " the man from Laramie " ? There are marvelous shots of planes in the clouds , lovingly filmed . The story is very trite , and almost completely devoid of dramatization . The couple lives an almost routine life and the user who complains about June Allyson's choice for the wife , IMHO , totally misses the point . With her less-than-attractive look , her hoarse voice , she was the perfect housewife the screenplay needed . At the time , women were barefoot and pregnant : there ' s not one single woman among the base staff , even in the desk jobs - . All they had to do was worrying about their hubbies , who were fighting for democracy and against an Enemy whose name we never hear , but in 1955 , it was not hard to guess it . One wonders why a young person who has never seen a Mann movie should choose this one among all the great movies he made .
In the wake of James Bond	England had James Bond . France had OSS117 and Coplan , and SAS for those whose taste runs that way . None of them became an international star as Ian Fleming's hero did . Riccardo Freda is the entertainment director par excellence . He did horror movies , swashbucklers , sword and sandals , melodramas . . and spy thrillers in the wake of James Bond . This one is not bad , in spite of a budget which you cannot compare to Salzman / Broccoli productions . The scene when Coplan discovers his own coffin in the hacienda might be a nod to the prologue of " Thunderball " . The cold room scene is good suspense too . The rest is business as usual
Damned Dam !	Yves Allégret had already directed Gérard Philipe in " Les Orgueilleux " , one of his best movies . But by the mid-fifties , his inspiration which had produced such classic films noirs such as " Dédée d'Anvers " " Une Si Jolie Petite Plage " , the highly superior " Manèges " and " les Orgueilleux " began to dry up . Gerard Philippe as the star . The first time Allégret had experimented color . And an American firm production . Wide screen . And a dam to build with Philipe as a sick engineer . You might think that with those assets , " La Meilleure Part " ( all the men who work on the building site give the best part of themselves ) is certainly an impressive work ; unfortunately , such is not the case . Allégret substituted production techniques for soul , building a bridge to his audience with his story of immigrated working men , but erecting a dam in front of them with empty words and an awfully desultory script . It is a boring work . One wishes it had not come from Yves Allégret .
Too late for Henry Decoin !	Imagine that Danielle Darrieux's character in " Abus de Confiance " ( 1938 ) has become , twenty years later , a famous brilliant lawyer . The comparison does not stops there : in the final scenes , Michèle Morgan's defense speech recalls Darrieux's first one in the 1938 work . Morgan rants about the perils of alcoholism , whereas she's a barfly herself . " Pourquoi viens-tu si tard ? " is to rank among Decoin's worst efforts : - The first third is a not-so-funny comedy ( despite Audiard's lines ) involving the brave loyal lawyer and a paparazzi ( Henri Vidal , Morgan's husband at the time who , sadly , would die the following year ) who's also a lady killer . Both team up for an inquiry on wine traffickers , a subject which could have been interesting but which the director sacrifices for the sake of his two stars ' affair . - The second third is Decoin - trying - to - imitate - the - big - boys - of - the-new-wavelet : After yielding to a fifty-something , Morgan is eaten with remorse . She begins a long wandering in the streets , drinking more than she should , and finally seeking refuge in a psychiatric hospital . - In the last third , Morgan is back with a vengeance . In the courtroom of honor , she delivers a not very credible plea against booze which the audience does not want to hear anyway . . . Only Michèle Morgan's beauty survives .
Threshold of the void for the audience too . . .	Jean-François Davy is more renowned in his native France for his pornographic movies than for his foray into the fantastic genre . In 1971 , fantasy and horror movies were completely unusual in France and the last important work the country had produced in the field takes us back to the early sixties ( " les yeux sans visages " , Georges Franju ) . Although based on a Kurt Steiner novel , a trendy writer at the time , now almost forgotten , " le seuil du vide " mainly borrows from Polanski , essentially " Rosemary's baby " ( 1968 ) : the old nice lady ; the door which leads to another world ; the " good " doctor calling the bad one when the heroine tries to escape ; the costume ball which recalls the Castevetes " parties " and sabbath . It owes a lot to " invasion of the body snatchers " ( 1956 ) too . To Davy's credit , we can mention a rather impressive ending . Not enough to get up in the night though .
Yes , she only causes torments !	One of the most successful movies launched in 1998 and as far as I'm concerned , I find it hard for me to explain the reason of this enormous success because this movie is devoid of interest . I'd like to speak well of this comedy but I can't succeed in . However , the main idea of the movie was interesting . This is the story of a young man ( Ben Stiller who wish to pick up the trail of a girl he loved , Mary ( Cameron Diaz ) when he was in high school . For this , he hires a detective ( Matt Dillon ) but it's not easy : not only falls Dillon in love with her but the competition is very hard because Mary's got other admirers , notably a so-called architect ( Lee Evans ) and even an elderly man ! Unfortunately , the Farrelly brothers obviously felt like introducing a crude and even disgusting humor which is everything except funny . When you think about " Toto le héros " a fantastic movie made by Jaco Van Dormael who succeeded in introducing a quiet and ironic humor even in dramatic sequences , you can't help feeling dismay towards " there's something about Mary " . Not only , its humor lacks of sharpness and subtlety but it's also completely irrelevant and it doesn't lend itself to certain sequences in the movie . This major flaw spoils it and it's a pity because it enjoys a good performance , especially Matt Dillon and Lee Evans . At last , a predictable and convenient happy-end comes to crown it all . For me , " there's something about Mary " is a movie to forget
Female clerks	Chabrol , although labeled " Nouvelle Vague " has never forgotten to tell a story . It has made him the heir of a long tradition of the psychological French thriller ( Clouzot , Duvivier , Decoin ) . Even his earlier efforts ( " Le Beau Serge " " A Double Tour " " Les Cousins " ) had painstaking well-constructed screenplays . But " Les Bonnes Femmes " gives way beneath the weaknesses of the Nouvelle Vague and succumbs to their vices : a vague story , ponderous jokes , mediocre performances ( mainly the male ones ) and a lot of padding . At a pinch , one can save Clotilde Joano's character and the terrible fate which lays in store for her . But the main reason why you would watch this non-Chabrolesque film is Stephane Audran's presence : she would be his star when he peaked in the 1968-1973 years . The films he made then were his very own and had nothing to do with the N . V . fortunately .
Another impossible love .	It was not the first time Claude Autant-Lara had broached the impossible love subject . His " le diable au corps " from Raymond Radiguet remains one of the great classics of the French cinema . It's not good news this time . WW2 , in occupied Brittany : a military German woman comes to visit her husband , a Kommandatur officer . She is billeted on a local inhabitant , a widow ( Françoise Rosay ) , whose son is part of the resistance fighters . What will happen next ? Shall I have to spell it out ? The best sequence is the depiction of the réveillon ( Christmas's eve dinner ) at the German military command . But it is impossible to believe in the two lovers ' impossible love . Autant-Lara did not probably like this job . He was about to make his most daring work , " Tu ne tueras point " , which featured two of the actors of " le bois des amants " , Laurent Terzieff and Horst Frank .
but also one of the hardest . . .	With this movie , Gérard Lauzier decided to broach a particularly delicate topic on a comedy tone : difficult suburbs in France . But for me , his movie isn't really successful for two main reasons . First , it reminded me a lot of " Dangerous Minds " ( 1995 ) starring Michele Pfeiffer . The less we can say is that here , Gérard Depardieu has a lot of common points with the quoted actress and seems to be the hero of a Hollywood screenplay , at a professional level as well as a private level . Concerning the professional level : although , Depardieu looks like a big and strong man it is hard to see him trying to impose discipline on his students and sometimes , I believe that the methods he uses to tame his students aren't really pedagogical . For example , he invites the best elements in his own flat so that they can study in peace ! Then , the end turns out to be disappointing because too much conventional . Indeed , he was to take a new post in another school but because he learned to like his students , he decides to stay in his former school . Now at the private level . We learn that Depardieu is an estranged husband and he reveals to one of his colleagues that if he chose a tough school it is because he wants to get closer to his children ( how new it is ! ) but he tries to reconcile with his wife . But in the meantime , he also wants to seduce one of his colleagues . These characteristics enable to foresee the main fault of the film . . . And the main fault of the movie is of course , the clichés ! In Lauzier's movie , they take the form of a total spreading and they are linked to these suburbs ' main problems : racism , racket , tags , violence , academic failure , chador . In short , everything is here ! It is also to be noted that a few characters are really caricatured . The perfect example is Daniel Prévost as the racist neighbor . These permanent faults end up spoiling the movie . All right , there are funny situations like the birthday sequence ( the music used for this scene regularly appears again throughout the movie and it creates quite amusing moments ) . But because these situations are either too easy too predictable , they can hardly save this movie . All in all , there's few originality in this comedy that exploits properly its ideas but without great surprises .
Philippe Leotard deserved better !	Philippe Leotard was a very talented actor who passed away recently . Since his debut ( his first important part was in the war movie " avoir vingt ans dans les Aurès " though he already was in TRuffault - who " invented " him , they say - in " domicile conjugal " ) , he remained an interesting personality , a Serge Gainsbourg who would have relinquished music for the movies . Like the great singer / composer , his premature death suggests he probably used to burn the candle at both ends . To crown it all , his brother was a politician , the minister of defense at the time at that ! ( Leotard used to say : me , I'm the minister of " défonce " ( = getting high ! ) ) Everything rests on his shoulders and the director contents himself with a story full of clichés ( an umpteenth version of Dassin's " night and the city " , if you know what I mean ) . The lighting effects favor dark blue and orange and most of the action takes place at night . A pre-AA Juliette Binoche briefly appears as a singer . Annie Girardot could have been an ideal partner for Leotard but her part is so underwritten it's a wonder we remember her . Watchable for Leotard's fans but only for them .
Juliette capitulates . Romeo is moaning .	The pregnant girl ( and of course unmarried ) has always been the permanent feature in the French cinema of the south of France . Blame it on Marcel Pagnol ! Recently " La Ville est tranquille " was an updated version of Pagnol's classics of the thirties / forties . " Le Ventre de Juliette " is more of the same . All that concerns Juliette and Matthias is endearing and the two actors J . Parmentier and S . Rideau are both convincing . Unfortunately , the supporting actors are left to their own device . Their characters are caricatures and they overplay as hell . The mother looks like a Pedro Almodovar's heroine lost in " Whatever happened to Baby Jane ? " ( like in Aldrich's classic , she was a star when she was a child and her blockbuster in Argentina was a version of " Goldilocks and the Three Bears " which she watches again and again on her video ) . " Fafa " , Juliette's sister ( and her bourgeois husband ) is really a pain in the neck , and I'm polite . And the viewer who has not guessed who Juliette's father is after his second appearance is a moron . ( no need for waiting the mother's " explanations " ) Both the beginning and the ending display the same pretension .
it's nobody's fault !	" C'est pas ma faute " is just a gentle comedy where the actors do what they can to give it punch . But it turns out to be trite because it's a well-worn topic : a restless child who causes disasters everywhere he goes and they wish to get rid of him as soon as possible . Not only is it a gentle movie but for a major part , it falls into the conventional and leads to the inevitable " happy-end " . When Martin , the little boy is sliding away to take refuge in a big but frightening house , at first he's scared because this house is supposed to be haunted by a wicked man ( Jacques Perrin ) . Martin will realize that this man is nice and he had an unhappy life . He'll even be the one to find a way so as to solve the problem of an enormous tree fought between Martin's friends and a rival group . Anyway , it's too obvious that this movie is only aimed at children
a mixed biography for one of the kings of pornography	A Czech director who emigrated in the USA in the seventies , Milos Forman , these last years specialized in biographies : " Larry Flynt " ( 1996 ) and he was to shot " Man on the Moon " three years later about the life of the comedian Andy Kaufman . After a seven year absence ( his last movie was " Valmont " in 1989 ) , " Larry Flynt " was released in 1996 and we all have in our minds the poster because it caused a scandal . Larry Flynt , one of the kings of pornography depicted as a crucified Christ on the string of a woman ! After I watched this movie which relates the chaotic career of this man against the establishment , it left me a bitter taste , in a major part caused by the script . It is not a matter of chance if Forman hired Scott Alexander and Larry Karaszewski as the scriptwriters . Both concocted the screenplay of the delicious " Ed Wood " ( 1994 ) one of Tim Burton's peaks in his work . So to write the script of " Larry Flynt " , they used the same methods as " Ed Wood " ' s : to relate his life as precisely as possible . If it had wonderfully worked in Burton's movie , here the mayonnaise isn't thickening for Forman's movie . I think that it is due to a difference of personality with the two quoted characters . Indeed , Ed Wood was an eternal loser but the scriptwriters had made him endearing . Moreover , Johnny Depp had rendered his personality in a convincing way . As for Larry Flynt , he was a winner although he has had trouble with the law and he built a real empire based on a vulgar exploitation of the woman body . At once , we deal with an ambitious but hateful character . Woody Harrelson's efforts to make him nice are ineffective , either in dramatic moments ( Flynt's wife who commits suicide ) either in funny sequences ( Flynt's excess in court ) . Besides these last sequences aren't even funny in the way Harrelson goes over the top . As a result , the movie loses a lot of its appeal and you just glance through it . By way of consolation , we can save Courtney Love who for her real first role in screen offers a decent and sometimes harrowing performance . There's also a decent performance from Edward Norton but he will find the role of his life three years later in " Fight Club " . A mixed biography which shows that the presence of two excellent scriptwriters in a film doesn't always contribute to its success .
it's the same thing as the first movie : worth seeing for its special effects	The idea of a sequel to the most successful movie made in 1993 stayed rooted in people's minds . Moreover , in the first movie , Sam Neil was astonished by found out that " dinosaurs are breeding ! " . However , scientifics who used to work for the " jurassic park " had developed a process that had to make the dinosaurs sterile . Apparently , there must have been a mistake or something they didn't think about . But for Spielberg , this carelessness was a kind of excuse to make a follow-up . As far as this sequel is concerned , well it's far from being superior to the first movie . If special effects are always dramatic and successful ( you can notice that Spielberg made the effort to diversify the species of dinosaurs ) , the screenplay is always few inspired . It appears frankly poor in the way it plays the role of fill-in . Must you add that it contains dialogs that sound hollow and labored ? And of , course , unlikelinesses are always on meeting . Nevertheless , one positive side : children nearly never appear during the movie . Steven Spielberg chose Jeff Goldblum in the main role ( perhaps , he wanted to grant him more liberty and calibre than in the first movie ) but he could have chosen as well Sam Neil . On another hand , when the tyrannosaurus invades San Diego ( it gives a little ounce of surrealism to the movie ) , the movie falls into the ridicule . Instead of feeling anxiety or fear , you laugh a lot when you watch the disasters that the tyrannosaurus causes . At last , the end probably ranks among the worst ends of movie ever made . Indeed , it's too easy and conventional to say that we must let dinosaurs live on their island and it gives birth to a childish moral . Besides , the movie globally gives off a feeling of great childishness due to the characters ' every moves and thoughts . Especially the clan of wicked people who mean to capture dinosaurs in order to create another " Jurassic park " in San Diego . A flat and poor sequel . I didn't watch " Jurassic Park 3 " and I don't know what it's worth . When will " jurassic park 4 " be ?
Talk , talk . Not enough Darroussin .	This little comedy begins well enough with a flat invaded by moths . Victoria Abril in the shop trying to understand the difference between flying and creeping insects is good fun . Her argument ( You cannot kill these poor things ! They are animals ! It's murder ! ) with partner Darroussin is even better : his comical expression makes him the funniest contemporary actor . But Darroussin's part is underwritten and too much time is given over to an uninteresting love story between an ugly girl and a so-called legionnaire . The attempts at true black humor are lame ( the bags the mysterious man carries : a nod to " rear window " ? ) . There's the obligatory " is he gay ? " trick and the scene in the toilets is ponderousness itself . There's also an unpleasant bourgeois side . Working in a small supermarket is a demeaning job , but do not worry , the ugly duckling is not what you think he is . The last scene is revealing .
John Cale imitates Herrmann .	I have always admired John Cale , as a former Velvet Underground member and as a solo artist . Here he gives us his Hermann act , and much of the score recalls the strident brilliance of " Psycho " , notably during the scene Bale joins the gay golden boy in the bathroom . Of course , it does not match Bernard Herrmann's magnum opus , but anyway who could surpass him ? MINOR SPOILER As for the movie , it's a pretty disappointing menu : Bale overplays and we've already seen that , much better , with Jack Nicholson . His character is obnoxious , a spoilt child ( don't we learn he was born silver spoon in hand , his father owning the company for which he " works " ? ) . There's the obligatory coup de théâtre ( à la " the sixth sense " or " fight club " ) : it's not what you thought it was . I begin to get tired of these " unexpected " endings . Dafoe , the beest actor of the movie is wasted with his part of an almost colomboesque detective .
An ersatz Chabrol movie .	The turn of the decade ( sixties / seventies ) was Chabrol ' s heyday . To reproduce his ( commercial and critical ) success , the same ingredients were chosen ( a murder mystery , a bourgeois house , Stephane Audran , Chabrol's then wife playing parts of twin sisters - after Olivia de Havilland , why not her ? - , Chabrol in the flesh in a cameo - he's the Pullman's inspector - ) to give the flick the aura of . . . . an ersatz Chabrol movie . There are , at a pinch , two good suspenseful scenes ; the wheelchair on the road , pursued by a car , and the hanged man in the graveyard which pack a real wallop . Etienne Périer was to continue in the ersatz Chabrol vein with " la main à couper " , but he was luckier with his " un si joli village " ( 1978 ) which was closer to Cayatte / Boisset social criticism .
Even John Huston can make turkeys . .	There are often badly-matched couples ( in the general sense of the term ) - in Huston's movies : " African Queen " " Heaven knows Mister Allison " " roots of Heaven " " Misfits " . . . " The Barbarian and the geisha " ( check the title ) is another good example , so to speak . It seems that Japanese stuff was trendy at the time as such works as " Sayonara " " the world of Suzie Wong " and " the teahouse of the August moon " bear witness . Huston's effort might be the worst of this rather bad lot ( with the exception of " Susie " maybe ) . John Wayne perfectly fits in Ford's world , in Huston's he's like a bull in a china shop . His Japanese partner is totally bland . Even the dramatic scenes ( cholera epidemic ) do not save the movie from absolute boredom . Only those utterly enamoured of Huston's every work need to choose this , among all his other great movies around .
Looks like a cartoon .	A cross between " time machine " ( at a small range ) " the groundhog day " and a road movie , " Retroactive " is not to be taken seriously ( ! ) . Belushi's acting verges on a cartoon villain : he looks like Tweety Pie's Sylvester . There's some black humor , mainly in the first part ; it tends to become repetitive after a while . Anyway the place where Brian works is two-bit sci-fi and the scientist's dumb-founded looks are priceless . So is Belushi's big bad wolf swagger . But the prize goes to M . Emmet Walsh's Sam : " don't do it here , please , take'em to the desert ! " " Retroactive " has a couldn't-care - less side which is quite entertaining . But if one seeks meaning and brain stuff , one must move on .
All along the watchtower	Brother Mike and sister Kate have lost their father and the boy finds it hard to get over this death . Kate finds him a job on a watchtower while she's busy fishing . Alas he has to team up with an impostor , a serial killer ( Berenger ) . Tom Berenger is the only reason why you'd like to watch this umpteenth story of another Jack the Ripper . He's a very earnest thespian and he tries his best to give the audience an in-depth performance , complete with miserable childhood and paradoxical ( and a bit childish ) philosophy . His relationship with Kate is so predictable I will not mention it ; but with the boy , it's a different matter . He feels the boy's need for a substitute ( no pun intended as far Berenger is concerned ) . And it's really too bad the relationship Mike / Art is only skimmed over . The film is marred by an absurd ending , although the last words do not lack black humor . " I have changed " it reads . He has . indeed .
Too gentle	" Tire - au - flanc " belongs to a genre which is really an acquired taste , the coarse comedy . It reached its peak in the thirties when Raimu and Fernandel starred in " les Gaietés de l'Escadron " or " Ignace " , not those two actors at their best . It's not because a movie was made by Jean Renoir ( or . . . . . fill in the blank ) that it must be looked upon as an immortal masterpiece . Although they did not take place in barracks , " la chienne " and even " on purge bébé " had a stronger anti-militarist feel . Here , when Jean Renoir regains his humor , his wit and his rebellious spirit , it's principally in the subtitles : his lines ( and cartoons ) seem to possess something the pictures sometimes lack . Of course , there are funny scenes : the girl's presence in the barracks is good fun . But the last pictures are finally a capitulation ; after all , - I quote the colonel - the Army succeeds in making men ! Is that really funny to press-gang young men into a relatively comfortable army ? Opinions differ .
Robert Bresson's least satisfying film , probably	" What prompted me to shoot this film is the waste we have made of everything . It's this mass civilization in which the human being won't exist any more . This mad restlessness . This huge demolition undertaking where we will die where we thought we lived . It's also the astounding indifference from people in general except some young ones who are more lucid " . This is what Robert Bresson declared when his film was released thirty years ago and he surely had good reasons to defend his deeply pessimistic view about the future of the world . It's 1977 and the " thirty-year boom period after World War II " is just over . This golden age of economic , social growth improved many people's lives but also led to grave results like pollution or the nearly extinction of several animal species . Although " le Diable Probablement " was released thirty years ago , the main issues it broaches are still topical ones in 2007 especially with global warming . Could Bresson be a visionary ? Different characters in Bresson's work experienced a cruel , ruthless world , either it is a priest ( Journal d'UN Curé De Campagne , 1951 ) , a donkey ( Au Hasard Balthazar , 1966 ) or a little girl ( Mouchette , 1967 ) . Here , he puts his camera amid a bunch of teenagers in their twenties something who are horrified with man did to the planet . The strongest points of the work take place during the slide shows when they comment on a neutral voice the damage man caused to the environment . These pictures pack a real wallop and it's impossible not to remain indifferent in front of them . They efficiently serve Bresson's purpose . But why " le Diable Probabalement " is ultimately underwhelming in Bresson's filmography ? These scary pictures are well here to bear witness of the " huge demolition " in which we're trapped but the filmmaker doesn't introduce the causes . They are absent , either they're of social or economical source . That's why we are little convinced and indifferent once these images aren't on the screen any more . And what doesn't help matters is that when the camera lingers on Charles and his friends ' everyday life or significant events , these issues of pollution , famine , waste of natural resources seem so far from the filmmaker's main lines that our interest progressively wanes . And the thought that this bunch of teenagers doesn't seem to directly live in this horrible world often springs to mind , except maybe once when Charles and Albert go in a forest and not to see and hear the sound of the trees falling down , the former puts his fingers in his ears . So , Bresson's film is the victim of a large gap between its purpose and its manner to reach it . It should have gained intensity by being more tightened . Of course , it's a " Bressonian " work to the core with an austere , straightforward directing , " models " who recite their texts and the confrontation of subjective minds with an objective , cruel world but " le Diable Probablement " isn't Bresson's most adequate film to see these features blended to create a big harmonious work . On virtually the same topic , the documentary " an Inconvenient Truth " ( 2006 ) is more effectively creepy . In the sequence when Charles is to the analyst's , at one moment he bends over the shrink's desk and can see a drawer full of checks and notes . This detail could be an indication about the next direction taken by Bresson for his next film : " l'Argent " ( 1983 ) .
It's not Benoît Poelvoorde who is the millstone but the movie itself !	Launched in the Spring 2002 in France , " le boulet " was hugely successful ( more than 3 million of spectators in the French theaters ) . Why ? This success remains both mysterious and unexplainable because Alain Berbérian's movie's got every conceivable fault , every fault imaginable so that you can name it : the perfect load of rubbish . It consists on an uninspired and hackneyed script with threadbare topics . Dialogs that aren't very worked and a poor directing that emphasizes too much on special effects . But above all , " le boulet " is a bad movie because it borrows mostly elements or sequences from a lot of French movies . Thus , you find traces of " la cité de la peur " ( 1994 ) made by the same director , always Berbérian . But you also think about " la soif de l'or " ( 1993 ) and " la grande vadrouille " ( 1966 ) both made by Gérard Oury . Even the duo of characters with opposed disposition ( here , we deal with the frail Poelvoorde and the heartless Lanvin ) and who are however compelled to work together isn't original . Indeed , this comic device had been already used ( and brilliantly ) by Francis Veber . You only have to watch " la chèvre " ( 1981 ) or " les fugitifs " ( 1986 ) to realize it . With this poor movie that looks hollow , we deal with a very serious situation : it would appear that French comedy is declining . . .
" U Turn " away from this movie	With " U-Turn " , it seems that Oliver Stone ( Platoon , 1986 , JFK , 1991 , Natural Born Killers , 1994 ) wanted to prove his ability to shoot a thriller with simplicity and efficiency . I must acknowledge that I couldn't wait to discover his 1997 film because of its offbeat , eerie story . It's a real downward spiral for his main character Bobby ( Sean Penn ) who after a car breakdown has no other choice than to stay in a small isolated town amid a desert landscape . A short stay that will soon mutate into an overlong nightmare for him . Unfortunately , the result finds itself very below my expectations . The opening credits show Penn driving his car with a flood of fast close-ups showcasing details of him or the surrounding landscape . This cinematographic process sets the scene for the rest of what will follow . " U-turn " is in its major part marred by a flashy form which depletes the interest and ends up annoying the viewer . It was not exactly the required treatment to film this kind of story and to assess the absurdity , the madness it conveyed . The psychology of the characters is given a rough side and so is suspense . The scene of the murder of Nick Nolte falls into the grotesque . Without mentioning an endless , exasperating end at that with Penn and Jennifer Lopez who kill each other the former doesn't trust the latter and than it's Lopez who wants to abandon Penn and so on . . . Yes , Sean Penn is one of the greatest American thespians of these last years but here , the secondary roles steal him the show , particularly Billy Bob Thornton as a nonchalant garage mechanic . But is it sufficient to spend your time with them in front of this black comedy ?
on the run . . .	An adaptation of a famous TV series , " the fugitive " was a blockbuster when it was launched in 1993 . Did I enjoy it ? Yes and no . . . We deal with a spirited action movie , led without any dead times and with a well-balanced performance . I was told that Tommy Lee Jones almost stole the show from Harrison Ford . Honestly , I didn't have this impression . But " the fugitive " is also a movie without any major surprises and where you can detect a lack of inventiveness because it confines itself to the usual rules of the detective movie : a man wrongly accused of a crime he didn't commit , a will to discover the real culprit , police on his tail , a predictable progression sprinkled with stirring chases . Furthermore , the script , which is sometimes repetitive doesn't exclude unlikelinesses and the end makes the whole conventional . Nonetheless , Andrew Davis knows his job and " the fugitive " remains a spectacular and watchable movie but also too much superficial to call it a masterpiece .
to believe in love and happiness ( instructions leaflet )	I remember that this Claude Lelouch effort was surrounded by much hype when it reached the streets in 1996 . In general , when they are theatrically released , the director's efforts follow this media pattern and it probably reveals his narcissistic side . But " Hommes Femmes Mode D'Emploi " caused a stir due to the presence of Bernard Tapie who managed the Marseille football club . I must acknowledge that he gave a thoroughly honorable performance for his first steps in cinema and Fabrice Lucchini gives him strong support which was the least he could do for a seasoned actor like him . I could say the same thing for the rest of the cast . The input from each actor is surely the sign that Lelouch loves his actors and is ready to give them presence on the screen and to maintain it . This quality put aside , " Hommes Femmes Mode D'Emploi " is in the same league as virtually all Lelouch's efforts which preceded it . The director remains faithful to his favorite topics , notably fate and fortunes of life that link different characters . A little iffy editing , characters who enjoy philosophizing about life and time that go by in a positive way ( see the sequence between Lucchini and Tapie in the car when talk about the French philosopher and mathematician Pascal ) bestow the film with a naive , simplistic aura . Lelouch can't make the distinction between realism and fabulous . More serious , his freewheeling look at life leads him to irresponsibility . Pierre Arditi acts a doctor who declares his theory to Allessandra Martines that the brain is responsible for our aches . So , if you say to a healthy man that he is gravely ill and to a seriously ill man that he is in good health , morales should be inverted . Reality Mr . Lelouch is drastically different . A doctor has to tell the truth to his patients , no matter harsh it is . And there's still this drawback from him to include superfluous sequences and a subplot which barely bring something to the bulk of the main plot ( the sequences with the two tramps and the subplot featuring Claude Lelouch's daughter and Ticky Holgado's son who try hard to see again ) . As I've written it before , the cast makes up a bit for the unlikeliness and the dangerously naive side of the venture and Lelouch's virtuosity at camera is sometimes gripping but is it enough ? If you're a Lelouch buff , you'll certainly want to include it in your DVD collection . The others , you can look away without remorse .
How to marry a millionaire	It is a rather silly plot . As a lot of playboys cannot pay their debts anymore , their creditors suggest one of them marry a millionaire's daughter . They even will have a " coach " , a former Don Juan : he will teach them everything to seduce a woman from dancing to a kiss . He is not himself attractive anymore but he used to have the knack , they say . Enter Fernandel chasing butterflies and Andrex as a physical culture monitor . The competition to win the rich girl's heart has begun . The French " Dictionnaire Des Films " has been overgenerous to bestow two stars on this movie . Admittedly , this is funny ( in places ) but it is also handicapped by frequent use of exasperating songs which force the viewer to use the " fast forward " button .
something's lacking . . .	Prior to this most recent cover of Emile Zola's novel by Claude Berri , they were various renderings on the silver screen before . A silent version was shot in 1913 and remains difficult to watch . In 1962 , Yves Allégret's version of Zola's sprawling novel followed very closely the thread of the storytelling which came to the front while the descriptions of the working-classes and the upper classes took a back seat . 30 years later , Berri got down to a new transposition of the novel to the screen to locate her in the vein of French heritage . Developed by the Mitterrand government , this trend spawned films which were meant to be a popular quality cinema facing American blockbusters and to show French culture in literature at key-moments in French history . This movement was at its peak at the dusk of the eighties and the dawn of the nineties with " Jean De Florette " , " Manon Des Sources " ( 1986 ) , " Cyrano De Bergerac " ( 1990 ) or " Madame Bovary " ( 1991 ) . Generally , these films were financially profitable but weren't up to scratch from an artistic perspective . " Germinal " belongs to this category . Probably the most famous installment in the Rougon-Macquart saga , " Germinal " is also one of the most potent French novels ever written . It was a perilous task to transpose it to the screen and Berri partially did well his job . His film follows very closely the staple framework of the novel and only keeps its main installments including some grisly ones ( the sequence of the castration ) . Hence a simplified and watered-down version in which certain moments are clumsily linked up . Overrall , Berri's piece of work joins the list of films derived from novels in which to be as faithful as possible to the basic work can hamper the artistic potential of the film . Before being a filmmaker or an actor , Berri is especially labeled as a producer and for " Germinal " which was partly sponsored by French government , he had a Pharaonic budget at his disposal to reconstitute a prickly era of French history . Lavish costumes , an authentically built pit village are clear signs of this budget . Places , manners and the living standards of the proletariat and the bourgeoisie which encompassed deep inequalities are faithfully depicted in a hard-hitting way . There's a noticeable detail during the party : the fight between the cocks is an evident metaphor of the class struggle . A blatant gap between the stark pit village , especially the dour house of the Maheu and the lascivious residences of the Gregoire is enhanced by a photography with evocative colors . Berri faithfully captured Zola's novel and his budget was up to scratch to the demands of the novel . But as I mentioned above , Berri is first and for most of a producer . As a filmmaker , his job remains limited to make him go in the restrained circle of the seminal contemporary French filmmakers . Zola's ground-breaking sweep also encompassed a plea in favor of the working classes who lived in squalor and a condemnation of the bourgeoisie in their posh universe . These features are perceptible in Berri's film but that's all . The director contents himself to shoot the watershed and momentum moments of the book without developing his own perception or bringing his personal touch . Berri is unable to create a cinematographic language to render the strength of the most harrowing or blackest moments in the novel . That's why his directing has an academic feel . So , the most blackest aspects of Zola's novel vanish on the screen . In the sequences after the strike , the writer depicted in an incredible harsh style , the Maheu's tawdry conditions and their bigger misery caused by the fiasco of the strike but one doesn't really feel this misery . Then , on the scene when Maigrat the greedy shopkeeper gets emasculated , Zola wanted to raise the wild side of the miners , especially women and it's not palpable in spite of the commendable efforts of the actresses . The cast gathers a bevy of actors who are representative of French cinema but certain choices are debatable for different reasons . Renaud , one of the most popular and finest contemporary French singers plays his game well as the lead Etienne Lantier but he was a little too old for the role . On the paper , Lantier was about 20-25 years old and Renaud was in his forties when he acted . Beside him , Gérard Depardieu is physically Maheu but his character is psychologically subdued than in the book . The frail Miou-Miou wasn't the ideal actress to epitomize the stout and weakened Maheude . But Laurent Terzieff , a very ambitious thespian only appears for about a quarter of an hour in the whole film but effectively taps his little underwritten part . He just has to pronounce little lines to unveil his great skills of actor . The same goes for Jean Carmet whose character name and moniker , " Bonnemort " ( good death ) took an ironic dimension when he passed away shortly after the movie reached the streets . Jean Roger Milo was ideally cast as coarse , hairy Chaval . I don't want to demean Berri . His movie is thoroughly watchable but it is proof that Zola's work needs something else on the screen . His simplified cover hardly does justice to Zola's potent cry of revolt . It is at best mildly entertaining and for the non - speaking French viewers , it can be gratifying but for the French viewers who are Zola insiders , it might be a little frustrating . But it didn't stop this epic movie to ride high in the French box-office and to line Berri's pockets .
The hostages .	Raymond Bernard will be remembered for his moving " les croix de bois " . You can find an excellent comment by Eric Sayettat on the IMDb . " Les otages " which career was stopped by WW2 is far from being as strong . In 1938 , a lot of movies were verging on propaganda , and " les otages " was part of them . Okay , two people fighting for a tiny piece of land ( and their children get married unbeknown to one of them at that ) may be a subtle metaphor for the impending events . But the treatment fluctuates between comedy and tragedy and with the exception of one or two sequences - the soon-to-be - executed man singing to the toddler " les petites marionettes " behind the bars - , I doubt it will grab today's audience . Everybody vying to be an hostage-the German demands five hostages because of one of their officer's death - , it's hard to swallow . Just compare it to Christian - Jaque's " le repas des fauves " ( 1964 ) . There's also the famous episode of the taxis de la Marne , the deus ex machina of the movie . Considering what Renoir , Carné , Duvivier and Gance were doing at the same time , " les otages " , where everybody's a hero , is nothing but a propaganda movie .
Damn the torpedoes !	A young man ( René Dary who made his debut as " Bébé " for Louis Feuillade circa 1910 was already too old for the part : 33 ) is a rebel without a cause : obeying orders , respecting his superiors is too much for him , in spite of his father's sound pieces of advice . For a boy like that , joining the navy is perhaps not the right choice . That what's our hero does . But a good officer ( Pierre Renoir ) will show him the straight and narrow . " Le Révolté " has not worn well . Its main problem lies in the fact that the director never knows whether he wants to make a comedy or a drama : the torpedo episode highlights his problem ; the scene may be , depending on your mood , either tragical or hilarious .
The circus is in town	In the wake of her brilliant " Whatever happened to Baby Jane " ( 1962 ) , with a pleasing grasp of continuity , Joan Crawford continued in the thriller vein . Unfortunately there is no Robert Aldrich here ( and no Bette Davis either ) . Actually we are closer to " Straight Jacket " ( 1964 ) which was a hilarious camp fest . " Berserk " is more " conventional " which does not mean " plausible " . When you know the killer's identity which I won't reveal of course , you'll say to yourself " how come ? " . " Berserk ! " is primarily a whodunit à la Agatha Christie ( doesn't it take place in England ? The - murderer - is - among - us - and - pretty - soon - someone - else is-gonna - die stuff ) , but without anything of the writer's algebra . Nevertheless , the circus is the place where you dangerously live . Anything can happen during the show so there is a good suspense which would not be sustained if the action took place , say , in a forest near a lake . The high-wire walker , the knives-thrower's partner , the girls under the elephant's feet , the lion tamer , and Diana Dors in her box waiting for the saw which will cut her in two halves , all are in danger even if the murderer does not strike . That's the strength of the movie .
Prince Charming in reverse .	How tempting ! A serial killer which would not be like the other ones . Here the " criminal " does not kill himself , he invites his victims to read " Tristan and Iseut " ( a hardback edition is de rigueur ) , then to live with him a passionate affair like the two doomed lovers ; and as their love is " impossible " he lets them down . . . and all that is left for them is commit suicide . Since we had not heard from " Tristan and Iseut " since Cocteau's and Delannoy ' s " l'éternel retour " , this could have been a godsend . Alas it's not good news ; first of all the choice of the actress : Mathilde Seigner is not very attractive - even when she tries her best to be - and how could we believe she is a captain ? A female Maigret she is definitely not . Nicole Garcia , cast as a mischievous shrink working for the Police , steals the show right under her nose and that actress's lines are the only ones in the whole film which display a sense of humor . You should hear her say : " Such a story could not happen to you . Which man would have a passionate affair with a woman like you ? " On the other hand , the captain's mother is not funny at all with her gigot which returns every fifteen minutes . Definitely exasperating . And what about poor Michel Duchaussoy - a Claude Chabrol's favorite - and his part of an almost gaga daddy ? Actually if the ending dissatisfies , it's because one has enough of these " unexpected-twists " , particularly when they come at the most awkward moment ; if I should give you a clue , I ' d say it's in the Hitchcock's " suspicion " cum Christie's " Roger Ackroyd " mold . What could have given a renewed life to the serial killer genre becomes an harmless little thriller with happy end ( and gigot ) .
a disappointment in Patrice Leconte's work	After a series of movies all excellent since " Tandem " ( 1987 ) , " les grands ducs " is the first real disappointment from Patrice Leconte . Critics and public slagged it off when the movie was released in the beginning of 1996 . What to say about this film ? It isn't a really bad movie . What surprises is the rapidity with which Leconte shot his movie . It gives the impression of a quickly made and somewhat botched movie . That's why it appears as disappointing . All right , Patrice Leconte adopted a lively and brisk making , full of liberty and movements and it is obvious that he gave Jean Rochefort , Philippe Noiret and Jean-Pierre Marielle a free hand . These three strapping fellows have a tremendous time in their respective roles and I am obliged to recognize that it is nearly a treat to see them going over the top . Furthermore , the comical situations are well organized even if a little predictable . In short , the mayonnaise isn't thickening because the rhythm of the movie is too fast to be really interested by the story . Leconte should have shown more rigor and too much liberty , too many gestures end up exhausting the attention . " Les grand ducs " remains a bombastic and excessive film which has its funny sequences but it isn't to be ranked among Leconte's major works .
Gabin wanted Sophia Loren . . . .	. . . . And he won the case . " Verdict " is however one Cayatte too many . Realism which saved " justice est faite " " les risques du metier " and solid screenplays which made " avant le deluge " or " le glaive et la balance interesting if overblown works became some kind of " enough is enough " . For the first time in his career , Cayatte included nude scenes ( Muriel Catala and Michel Albertini , the doomed lovers , appear in their birthday suit during a whole sequence , more a desire to be a la mode than a genuine artistic move ! ) . Sophia Loren portrays a woman whose son might have killed her lover ( see above ) . In order to put pressure on the judge ( Gabin ) she abducts his wife ( Gisèle Cassadessus ) a diabetic , which makes the matters worse . Watchable because of the actors . But do not expect much .
Soderbergh's good movie	I think that " Ocean's eleven " is an overrated movie ( 7 . on imdb ) but it's nonetheless a pleasant movie . It goes down well thanks to a clever and often inventive directing , smart dialogs and a well-run troop of actors . George Clooney dominates the cast . Steven Soderbergh's movie also enjoys a screenplay that is well put together . Perhaps a little too well put together because it's hard to follow Clooney ' operation and there are details that can escape your attention . A good movie but not a masterpiece .
holidays in the sun . . .	Do you know Francis Veber ? He's one of the most popular French film-maker . He owes his success thanks to a comic method which he knows the secret . It's the confrontation of two people who have got a different disposition but are compelled to cohabit together in an unfriendly environment . This situation is told in a comedy tone By telling Harrison Ford and Anne Heche's adventures , Ivan Reitman must have been influenced by Francis Veber ' method . Here , a confident and bold Harrison Ford mixes with a coward Anne Heche . After a dragging beginning , the movie becomes lively and rhythmic when our two heroes are stranded on the island . It contains good and funny moments , especially when the characters are having an argument . But , it follows a predictable advance : at first , Ford and Heche can't stand each other but little by little , they learn to know each other better . It's all the more as they'll have to go through a hard time so as to leave the island . Finally , it's love that will shine them . At the end , you get a nice but colorless comedy . Nevertheless , Reitman can sustain the interest during all the movie and skilfully avoids boredom .
Roman Polanski tried a new direction and it was the deadlock	When Roman Polanski begins to shoot " Tess " , he has behind him a prestigious filmography scattered with works which became landmark films in their respective categories . Thus , " Repulsion " ( 1965 ) and " Le Locataire " ( 1976 ) are half realist , half fantastic gems in which he demonstrated that ambiguity was his forte . With " Rosemary's Baby " ( 1968 ) he gave us one of the top five fantastic movies of all time which beats hands down the farcical extravaganzas of " the Exorcist " ( 1973 ) while " Chinatown " ( 1974 ) represented a new peak in both his career and in the film noir . With " Tess " , he was in search of a new style . Something which was to occupy him for about twenty years . It may seem strange that he decided to adapt for the silver screen , Thomas Hardy's book because it is not his universe at all . Actually , he had planned to go uncharted waters with this plan which had been contemplated in about 1969 . He planned to shot " Tess " with his then wife Sharon Tate ( the movie is dedicated to her ) . But as she was sadly murdered by Charles Manson , he shelved it and took it back a decade later . When it was released , it was critically acclaimed and collected three Césars including Best Film . The amount ? Well esthetically , it's a breath-taking film . Thanks to Ghislain Cloquet's splendid cinematography , landscapes are enhanced with luminous results . It favorably compares to the one used in Terrence Malick's admirable " Days of Heaven " ( 1978 ) which opened nearly at the same time . Could one also compliment the story and the directing ? Okay , Polanski has made a faithful rendering with the main events and twists of the storytelling and he also offers a rather accurate description of the Victorian life in Britain at the end of the Nineteenth Century but something's lacking here . Some topics of the book are only skimmed over like the fate or the important mutations in society with the apparition of new machines . It would have taken a lyrical breath to relegate " Tess " to the rank of greatness . It is absent here . Malick had incorporated it in his film and thus had contributed in making his film a lyrical film poem . And Malick's directing shone . Either , contemplative , either suggestive , it rendered a vision of the lost paradise . Here Polanski's directing is derivative . One can't recognize his trademark and that is why " Tess " is an impersonal movie . This genuine director showed that he was in his element when it came to film madness or paranoia which led to ambiguity in several sparkling black diamonds mentioned above . And here , it is baffling to see him having a stab at romantic melodrama . A genre in which he partially succeeded his conversion . The problem also lies in the cast . It is rather undistinguished . A far cry from the ones of " Rosemary's Baby " , " Chinatown " or even " Le Locataire " which contributed to the unique aura of these crackers . Natasha Kinski is beautiful but she's rather bland . Peter Firth is better than her but that's all . The rest of the cast is well directed but none actor is a particular stand-out . " Tess " is the outset of Polanski's downswing and in spite of its major drawbacks one could be indulgent towards it compared to some duds which followed after : the anonymous , horrible " Pirates " ( 1986 ) , the uninspired " Frantic " ( 1988 ) . Polanski will have to wait until " Death and the Maiden " ( 1994 ) to be on clover again and especially until " the Pianist " ( 2002 ) which will make him regain the public's favor .
Elephants walk .	Allan Dwan seems more interested in filming the elephants than he is in directing his actors . Most of the time , excellent actors such as Barbara Stanwyck and Robert Ryan are left to their own devices : it's obvious in their first meeting and in the intimate scenes . As for the story , if you have not guessed that Ryan is not guilty long before the extravagant " explanation " , you are very naive . At times , it looks like an Asiatic western , the elephants replacing the horses . It's an interminable chase , with a stubborn English cop , nasty natives , a meal in the jungle where the heroes eat elephant stuffed with tiger or the reverse and precious stones .
As the miller told his tale . . . .	. . . the viewer's face turned a whiter shade of pale ! The first film using the Rouxcolor process ( and also the last ) , the film was made to fight against American color movies which could attract the French audience to the detriment of their local production . Today the film has lost most of its pristine charm : it looks like another color movie , where the colors are not that beautiful , although it's much better than the faded gevacolor of Christian-Jaque's " Barbe - Bleue " ( 1951 ) " La Belle Meunière is an ( imaginary , without a doubt ) moment in the life of Franz Schubert portrayed by singer Tino Rossi . If you do not like this kind of singer , take to your heels : in the first part , he sings every five minutes ; he even sings when the miller and his daughter are talking ! What's bred in the bone comes out in the flesh : although it takes place abroad , the characters and the story look like . . . a Pagnol story . All that the miller needs is a Provençal accent . Although wearing a horrible wig with big braids - to get the Teutonic look - , Pagnol's wife , Jacqueline is another Pagnolesque heroine : the baron in his castle wants her to be his mistress and he paints in glowing colors what she stands to gain from taking this position ! Of course Pagnol ( and Schubert ) does not approve of such a dishonor , but it's nevertheless the only movie by the director where the moral is not intact in the end . Brigitte is another soon-to-be " Angèle " Schubert spends some time in a mill . Just like Alphonse Daudet in Pagnol's swansong " Lettres de Mon Moulin " . As for the music , just compare with Abel Gance's " Un Grand Amour De Beethoven " !
What lies beneath	Actually nothing extraordinary . Pierre Boulle's novel and Shaffner's movie had different endings , so you could not ask the French writer for a sequel . This one uses shots from the first one , and allows us to see the fascinating " discovery " scene once more . As for Ted Post's work , it's OK . Nothing extraordinary , but entertaining all along the way . We are far from the heights of the Shaffner's movie though . Zira and Cornelius disappear too soon , and Heston , after a short stint , only comes for the final apocalypse . None of the actors remaining on the " stage " can sustain emotion and tension . THe settings in the subterraneans where the men live are impressive , but why do they worship the bomb ? The most moving part happens when Nova , out of despair , manages to speak ( in Boulle's book , Taylor ( Mérou ) taught her the human language ) . The end of the movie seemed definitive . And yet . .
Fair adaptation of a childhood classic .	Almost all actor Jean-Claude Brialy ' s films revolve around childhood : " Eglantine " , his charming debut featured an old grandma ( Valentine Tessier ) who used to gather her grandsons and granddaughters in her mansion . The fact that he adapted the comtesse de Segur's works afterwards made sense : the world of this old-fashioned but still very pleasant writer is that of the children . " Les malheurs de Sophie " is the first part of a trilogy which encompasses " les petites filles modèles " and " les vacances " , which is probably the best of the three books . The very structure of " les malheurs de Sophie " makes it a book very hard to bring to the screen . Jacqueline Audry did it before Brialy before in the fifties , but her movie is nowhere to be seen or found nowadays : judged by its screenplay alone , it seems that Audry had managed better than Brialy . The latter did not try to change the book and there's the rub : it is made of short scenes , all built on the same pattern : temptation / fault / punishment . Sophie is a little girl , naiver than nasty ; sometimes abetted by cousin Paul , she always gets into mischief , although the boy is much wiser than she is . So Brialy's work is repetitive and sometimes dull which the book was not . It becomes monotonous and lacks tempo , gusto and the darker side of the writer ( her book is some kind of autobiography ) The ending is different from the book too as Sophie , Paul and their parents leave France for America where an inheritance is waiting for them . Sophie's story continues - in a very dramatic way as she loses her mother in a wreckage then her father - in " les petites filles modèles " where she is mistreated by a shrew , Madame Fichini , before being received in a generous lady ' s home , and in " les vacances " where she meets again Paul , survivor of the sinking of the ship too . Brialy would adapt another Segur book in the eighties with " un bon petit diable '
The title is apt as far as the second part is concerned .	This Chabrol's movie begins well with funny characters , Michel Serrault cast as a bogus colonel , Huppert , as a bogus femme fatale , and FRançois Cluzet as a security guard working for shady guys . The scenes in the ski resort and on the plane , with a witty dialog including money , of course , gastronomy , army ( Ah ! our beautiful French Army ! an old and distinguished lady tells the " colonel " ) , and even Dead Poet Society ( watch out for the lines ) . Then , half-way through , the movie loses steam , the pace becomes too slow , the dialog ponderous . Jean-François Balmer ( a great actor though ) and his gang of baddies are not convincing , being too stereotyped compared to the three initial characters . At times , it would seem that Chabrol and his actors preferred to enjoy the sea sun and beach of the wonderful setting . Hence this disappointing second part where " rien ne va plus " ( nothing works anymore ) , and with a very trite ending at that ! Average .
menage à Trois	François Truffaut's third film is generally celebrated as a benchmark in his filmography but also in the Nouvelle Vague and even of the whole French cinema . Once again , such paeans of praise for this good but by no means extraordinary work go beyond me . A lot of viewers seemed to have been conquered by this story which is basically a novel penned by Henri-Pierre Roché . The former reviewer at the Cahiers Du Cinéma who once lambasted major French filmmakers of the forties and the fifties was struck by the mix of improper and purity which suffused in the novel . This is what galvanized him to film this unique story , at least for him and for the supporters of the film . The first thing to bear in mind is that the starting point ( two men and a women living together for a long period of their lives ) isn't new . In 1933 , Ernst Lubitsch had signed a work called " Design for Living " . This sparkling comedy already sheltered a " menage à Trois " and was much more enjoyable and accessible than Truffaut's arty work . " Jules et Jim " was also celebrated for its innovative directing and its stunning camera work . Okay , it's a bonus for the film but once again I could argue that there is nothing astounding about it . On the same year the movie opened in 1962 , John Frankenheimer cranked out the mind-boggling " the Mandchurian Candidate " . It's not the same kind of film at all but I was much more very taken with the filmmaker's camera work which worked wonders to serve a far-fetched but thoroughly riveting story . Frankenheimer's magnum opus did better since it heralded the political thriller which had its hour or rather decade glory in the seventies with works like Alan J . Pakula's " the Parallax View " ( 1974 ) . In " Jules et Jim " , the creative liberties dear to the New Wave clique are well present and enhanced to try to reflect the mood a sequence could convey , especially in the first half ( before the war ) which brims with happiness and lightness . The whole dovetailed to establish a good dose of escape and dream to the audience . Actually , Truffaut's movie is half successful in the way the first part ( before the war ) makes sense in my eyes . There is none disadvantage in watching a threesome of two men and a woman leading a freewheeling life without any major problems ( financial or other ) . But after the war , the second part veers to a somber direction and things go wrong because their demeanors are elusive to my mind . I don't understand their actions , their motivations , especially Jules ' . If he is so unfortunate with Catherine , then why doesn't he go away ? Catherine's character seems to be dangerous because she jeopardizes Jules and Jim's friendship . Catherine's behavior and persona leave me baffled . What doesn't facilitate things is that she pronounces one cue which can infuriate the ones who aren't touched by this story : " I don't want to be understood " . Besides , I do think that Truffaut's film is peppered with lines which seem ludicrous to me such as " it's twenty to one " , " an angel is passing " " it's normal , angels pass at twenty of every hour " . " Jules et Jim " is the Nouvelle Vague in all its splendor and its pretensions with an emphasis on the form rather than the content which remains unfathomable to me . Storytelling is not Truffaut's forte or otherwise it obeys to a form of logic which is out of reach to me . That's what I want to gently laugh at his contention that " a film is a story and a story has to be told . Even in the cinema " . But in spite of his tricks and devices to tell the steps of this story and make the characters likable ( use of neutral voice-over ) , I'm not touched at all . What to say about the cast ? Each actor has the head in the clouds , seems to act apart their respective roles . Hence , an impression of false . Jeanne Moreau is a remarkable actress but elsewhere and still today . Check François Ozon's latest opus " Le Temps Qui Reste " ( 2005 ) . She only appears ten minutes but her part is momentous and understandable for the progression of Romain's sickness . I'll surely provoke an angry response from the defenders of the film but " Jules et Jim " , this mix of slightness and gravity in the same bag has no effect on me . But there are some of Truffaut's " Nouvelle Vaguesque " peers for whom the notion of storytelling is absent from their cinematographic concerns like Jean-Luc Godard's stream of consciousness-like Pierrot Le Fou " ( 1965 ) .
Ah ! I wish the French scriptwriters were a little more inspired !	This is the story of Aldo Bonnard , a modest representative for a capillary products firm who's having a rough time : he's about to divorce his wife Alice and his new boss , Gérard is a hypocritical and despotic man . To crown it all , he discovers that his wife has a love affair with his boss ! But one day , he wins the fabulous amount of 10 millions of euros . From this moment , you can guess his intentions . He decides to leave his job , to take advantage as much as possible of his money and not to reveal this piece of news to his wife until the day of the divorce . From the reading of this summary , you probably understood it : there's nothing new in this story . Moreover this new variation of the millionaire in spite of himself reveals something disappointing : there aren't any good French scriptwriters who are able to concoct an original script that is off the beaten paths for a comedy . It isn't Gérard Bitton's movie that will arrange things . When you watch it , you are on a well-known ground : convenient or predictable situations , abortive and nice enough comic , a correct performance but that's all and at the end , an easy moral . You'd better avoid this movie .
When there's a will , there's a way ? ?	To get the custody of her child , Clarence , Bridget would do anything . The most interesting line of an uneven dialog is this strange lapsus when the woman speaks of her childREN . In her mind she's got two of them : the boy and her husband , a retarded man she married because his father promised her a lot of dough if she would stay five years with the poor thing . Bridget has a racy past ; a past which we know little by little as the flashbacks become more and more numerous . The plot often verges on melodrama and we often think of a Sirk / Stahl heroine lost in the Abel Ferrara world . It's difficult to side with any of the characters of the story , and as the precedent user said , it's very very difficult to like that . But by the same token , it's difficult not to be disturbed , sometimes overwhelmed by this miserable heroine , these despicable but pitiful men . The trip to Beirut , in this context , seems so irrelevant that it gains an almost uncanny atmosphere . Worth a watch but be warned : not for all tastes .
In an Italian rural way .	In spite of the presence of Bergman's veteran Max Von Sydow , this movie harks back to the Italian rural cinema of the seventies , with a zest of " ladri di biciclette " thrown in . The very long Italian sagas of the seventies , " novecento " ( 1976 , Bertolucci ) and " l'albero degi zoccoli " ( 1978 , Ermano Olmi ) comes naturally to mind . From Bertolucci's work , Erik's character : he's the only one who has a political awareness , almost an anomaly in a movie where " everyman for himself and God for us all ! " seems the motto , particularly the young hero's . It's not surprising that , in the wake of an accident , Erik loses his mind . The owners couple is also Bertolucciesque , and the castration scene could fit in " novecento " . Actually , August's movie seems closer to " l'albero degli zoccoli " : it's a rather static work-not meant pejoratively - which lacks Bertolucci's lyricism and epics . Except for Pelle , and Erik , all are resigned , and day in , day out , we attend the simple and hard life of the farm workers ; sometimes it's heart-wrenching , and sometimes it drags on a bit . The most interesting character is the central one , Pelle . He's a very ambiguous one ; the title " the conqueror " is thoroughly justified : unlike Erik , he intuitively understands that rebellion is pointless . You've got to know the rules of the game , and the way to the conquest goes through education , therefore school . His relationship with his father ( Von Sydow ) is not so warm it appears at first sight . Pelle feels humiliated when he sees , through the keyhole , his father unable to defend himself against his very young boss ; it could recall " laddi di biciclette " , but in that latter work , the child did not despise his father , in August ' s Work , he does . And eventually , he leaves his father alone , a father whose life was never fulfilled and now would have to die on his own . Under an academic veneer , it's an apology of individual social advancement-as the scene in which Von Sydow marvels at his son's school prowess shows - , and too bad for those who fall by the wayside .
the worst of the trilogy	" the raiders of the lost ark " was a huge commercial and critical success in 1981 . So it was almost inevitable that it was followed by a sequel . This sequel was " Indiana Jones and the temple of doom " and sadly this is a rather poor sequel . If Steven Spielberg takes back the good old recipes that made Indiana Jones's success ( exotic sceneries , entertaining pursuits , object with magical powers ) , on the other hand , his movie focuses a bit too much on the bloody and the unhealthy and it spoils considerably the movie . Sometimes the movie verges on the ridiculous . As a consequence , it makes the adventure movie its attraction . There's also a problem as far as the performance is concerned : if Harrison Ford is always charismatic , his partner Kate Capshaw is absolutely unbearable . A disappointing follow-up and one of Spielberg's worst movies . Fortunately , he'll catch up with the next section of Indiana Jones ' adventures : " Indiana Jones and the last crusade " ( 1989 ) .
Five little Indians	This Decoin effort has still got a good reputation in France . It's far from perfect though and the problem is that the screenplay hesitates between pure film noir and comedy . Besides , writer Albert Simonin is not Georges Simenon ; nor is he Boileau-Narcejac or Frédéric Dard : the lines are witless and the suspense scenes almost brainless : how can we believe ( and how can the head warden ? ) in three suicides which all take place in a prison ? Five thieves steal jewels , and , as an " alibi " , burglarize a Pastis distillery : one year imprisonment . But someone is doing away with the five accomplices : and then there were two . What was possible in Lacombe's " Le Dernier des Six " - one of the men of the gang gets rid of the others to get the whole loot - is unconvincing in a jail where wardens are supposed to keep a close watch on you . You must be very gullible to believe such a story . There's an attempt at a social comment : when of the prisoners's girlfriend ( Anouk Aimée ) comes to visit her squeeze , they can't say a single world in the visitors room . The gloomy atmosphere of the visitors ' room does not make it a nice place to be . This is probably the best scene of the whole film .
The Taggart tag along . . .	" Whatever happened to baby Jane " was a turning point in Bette Davis's career . " Hush hush sweet Charlotte " was almost as good , and she got first-class support from De Havilland , Cotten and Moorehead . With " the nanny " , and without a Robert Aldrich to direct , the formula began to wear thin . " The nanny " is an interesting work for fantasy and horror buffs though . I expected much of " the anniversary " probably too much . This movie comes one or two decades too late . All we see on the screen , Tennessee Williams had invented it long before , with his classy plays such as " the cat on the hot tin roof " and " suddenly last Summer " . Is there only a director here ? It's so talky that it looks like a bad filmed stage production . One-eyed Davis overacts ( why do you suppose she's like that ? don't worry , you will find out ) and as she has no Crawford or De Havilland to counterbalance , she becomes a caricature of herself . There are so many films where Davis is brilliant ! Why would you chose this one among all her awesome filmography ?
Part two .	Part two begins with the royal family's incarceration and ends with Robespierre's fall in the Summer of 1794 . Since Balmer ( Louis XVI ) disappears , and for a good reason , in the first half-hour , it's Klaus Maria Brandauer who walks away with the honors in this second episode . His Danton is a bon vivant , nice , adored by the crowds , in a nutshell , the hero with whom we're supposed to side with . Robespierre , on the other hand , is a hard-line persona , he's obviously the perfect villain . And if this is not enough , their respective sidekicks ( Camille Desmoulins and Saint-Just ) follow suit . A ridiculous slow-motion sequence shows the people on the way to happiness after Max has been guillotined . And the last lines of the movie are simply words which Danton utters earlier . That is to say this history lesson is one-sided . Danton / Robespierre are both more than the good and the bad , they are actually ( and mainly the latter ) complex personalities the movie cannot grasp . Because the movie , although very appealing , tries too hard , they are too many things which occur on the screen , and the writers wanted to put everything . And we get everything : from " les tricoteuses " ( the knitters who used to work near the guillotine " to Danton's " show my head to the crowd , it's worth the trouble " , from Marie-Antoinette's " I appeal to all the mothers . . . " to the rarely filmed " fete de l'etre supreme " , a Robespierre's attempt to restore a " secular " religion , from the horrible September massacres ( where nothing is spared the audience - especially Princesse de Lamballe's terrible fate ) to the romantic tragic Camille and Lucile Desmoulins love story . And if it's not enough , they lay it on sick : Marie - Antoinette could not see her husband leave for the scaffold . . . but in the movie , behind her bars , she could . By the way , it's Jane Seymour's real son ( Sean Flynn ) who plays the Dauphin ! A vital scene is botched : the king's trial ; his own COUSIN ( ! ) , the notorious Philippe-Egalité sentenced Louis to death , and he's nowhere to be seen on the screen ; the movie only shows the " death " votes and passes over in silence the fact that only a small majority led the king to the guillotine . This second part is more spirited than the first . But anyway the guillotine scenes with Christopher Lee as the emcee ( ! ) have on everyone an unhealthy but real fascination . Brr !
when war is at the gate of your holiday place	This Gérard Jugnot vehicle attests of his own approach of French comedy : to take a serious theme and move it in the domain of the comedy . In his previous effort , " une Epoque Formidable " ( 1991 ) , he had been interested by homeless people whom he introduced , with humor as deeply united and resourceful . In this " Casque Bleu " ( 1994 ) , he makes a bunch of tourists confront with a regiment of soldiers who took possession of their hotel . In spite of his awkward directing , there's an evident will from Jugnot to film his contemporary peers ' customs and manners and his perception doesn't lack of insight and sharpness . The image he gives of the tourist on holiday in a country in prey to social turmoil rings true either it is in the beginning of the movie when he and wife , Victoria Abril are in the hotel before the drama or when their van tries to make its way to the airport and they are surrounded by sorrow and misery . " Casque Bleu " is supposed to be a laugh-filled comedy but the problem is that we don't laugh a lot . Jugnot put aside the drawbacks from his previous opus , notably this somewhat nagging vulgarity but apart some delightful gags and a true image of the tourist , virtually all the actors act cardboard characters like Valérie Lemercier , a former secretary full of hang-ups . Furthermore there's a brutal change of tone when the army besieges the hotel and Jugnot has trouble to find reliable comical situations or dialogs and the movie is a little marred by an end which takes the easy way . Jugnot's formula ( dramatic topic / comic treatment ) proved itself in " une Epoque Formidable " . Here , it didn't really work . Apart from the true perception of the tourist , " Casque Bleu " has little to recommend in store . Try " une Epoque Formidable " instead .
Propaganda now dates this movie .	The greatest silent movies are generally free of any propaganda . Such is not the case with " Odna " which was recently restored with a complete soundtrack . The last pictures are a paean to socialism which " everybody has got to build " in a country where we all stand together . And if the message is not clear enough the loudspeakers keep on repeating ; " What did I do ? ( for my country ; JF Kennedy said the same by the way ) What am I doing ? What will I do ? ) " When the schoolteacher asks not to be sent to Siberia , we never see the person she's speaking to . When she finally agrees to leave for this lost village , we do not even see her kiss her fiancé good bye ! The individual's sacrifice indeed ! The soundtrack is weird . Sometimes , the words are sung , which makes the movie look like a musicals , some lines are spoken , a curious hodgepodge . Besides a big part of the movie is lacking , probably lost forever , and the scenes when the schoolteacher is lost in the cold are replaced by lines which tell the missing passage . All in all , I think this movie is rather cold , in every sense of the world , in spite of a promising start .
a few notches below the usual Michael Haneke production	Michael Haneke is one of the most innovative filmmakers of these last years and he must be given credit to take contemporary cinema in new territories . In a handful of films all disturbing which shatter our consciences and with a recognizable trademark , he created his own universe , a formidable one in which it is dangerous to venture . Like the greatest auteur , Haneke has his set of themes . Most of his films revolve around the alienation of the individual in the current western world in which comfort and modernity can lead him to the loss of his identity , even his physical or psychological destruction ( " der Siebente Kontinente " 1989 " Benny's Video " 1992 ) . The way violence has become a common feature in everyday life in an insensible society ( " Funny Games " 1997 ) , absence of love and communication in a God-forsaken world are also recurrent witnesses which run throughout Haneke's work . It seems that his latest opus , " Caché " ( 2005 ) is his most accomplished movie . It was a triumph on all levels and I have only read virtually unanimously glowing critics . It also garnered a bucketful of prizes and awards in Europe . Four years earlier , awards also rained on " la Pianiste " which like " Caché " received paeans of praise . . . maybe wrongly from my own standpoint . Derived from a novel , I do not think that it is on a par with Haneke's previous works . It's a let-down after a so far immaculate career . Coming after the fragmented " Code Inconnu : Récits Incomplets De Divers Voyages " ( 2000 ) which encompassed nearly all Haneke's quoted obsessions , " la Pianiste " is a return to a more accessible , linear form like " Funny Games " but once again not for all tastes given the murky even grisly contents of the film . But it's not necessarily a better one . A reading of the synopsis lets see why the director was highly interested with his topic : a 45 year-old maid who is a piano teacher and who lives under under her possessive mother's thumb . She only finds as a way out to flee from her sultry household the outings in peep-shows and porn cinemas . The Austrian director studied psychology in Wien in the sixties so it seemed that the story of this neurotic upper-class person was tailor-made for him . It was apparently a perilous task to render this novel on the screen because from Haneke's own words , several passages came within pornography . But fortunately , these passages are very subdued when they are transfered on the screen . Haneke remains faithful to his hallmarks . Although his devotees will have perhaps noticed that his obsessions , here take a back seat except maybe in the sequences when Annie Girardot intervenes . Indeed , she spends most of her time glued in front of the telly , the telly , a cursed object in Herr Haneke's universe . Here , one could argue that the telly only contributes to cement Girardot's domination on her daughter . Haneke also uses his static , clinical style again to describe and assess in a hard-hitting way , the mournful , loveless life of Erika Kohut with sometimes evocative colors . The blood which flows in the bathroom after a scene of self-mutilation on her genital parts underscores Erika's psychological wounds . In a way , what makes the strength of the film also constitutes its main drawback . I'm far from being an expert at psychology but it seems incompatible to me that Erika can be a brilliant piano teacher while being systematically over-protected by her mother in spite of her key-sentence : " you must be the best piano teacher in the world my girl " . Maybe would it have been more cohesive to introduce a character with a not so prestigious professional situation . But on the other hand , Erika's voyeuristic side and her secret attendances of porn cinemas seem logical with her persona and it's a neat idea from Haneke to have included classical music in the screening sessions . But the irregularity I mentioned handicaps a major part of the film and what doesn't help matters is that the second half which is more centered on the sadistic love affair between Erika and Walter ( Benoît Magimel ) is rather undermined by overlong sequences with some filler . Hence , this feeling that the film never seems to end . Part of the disappointment also comes from the cast . Maybe it was a mistake to have hired celebrities . In Haneke's previous pieces of works , actors were unknown of the mainstream ( except maybe for the German and Austrian public ) and contributed to the filmmaker's unique universe , even if " Code Inconnu " had Juliette Binoche . Hats off to Isabelle Huppert who agreed to play such a demeaning part . Anyway , she would act the same type of character with startling results in the highly superior " 8 Femmes " ( 2002 ) by François Ozon . But Annie Girardot's part is underwritten . She didn't deserve her César in 2002 . Haneke had thought of Jeanne Moreau for this part , I wonder what she would have done with it . Her possessive , pervasive presence isn't potent , destructive enough to give her the image of a monstrous mother . Worse , she's sometimes wasted in the way she's badly used . In one of the most famous images of the film , she's held by Huppert and Magimel as she's screaming . In the grievous scene , she's locked on a room and her cries make the moment unintentionally funny ! As for Benoît Magimel , his persona doesn't articulate itself very well with the posh , cold universe in which the film bathes . His prize for best actor in Cannes in 2001 is very disputable . I don't want to slate Haneke's film . It's not a winner , neither is it a despicable work . I can't find in it the " something " which elevated the bulk of his work to undebatable heights .
a witness of the surge of French New Wave ( let )	At the dawn of the sixties in France , the New Wave was like a tsunami on the shore of the domain of French cinema and even nowadays , it still fuels many movie-lovers ' bickering . Claude Chabrol shot two works in a row : " le Beau Serge " ( 1958 ) , " les Cousins " ( 1959 ) and they were the jewels of the New Wave crown . François Truffaut received kudos for his treatment of stolen childhood with the overrated " les 400 coups " ( 1959 ) . Jean Luc Godard ( excuse me " God Ard " ) was kicking the detective genre ( and French cinema into the bargain ) with " A Bout De Soufflé " ( 1960 ) . So , on this surge , it was inevitable for Jacques Doniol-Valcroze , both a critic and the editor of " les Cahiers Du Cinéma " to step back into the breach and to show his own methodology of film-making with " l'Eau à la Bouche " . But if his peers left well-known pieces of work , practically all Doniol-Valcroze's films are now in limbo except this one , helped by Serge Gainsbourg's languorous music and " la Maison Des Bories " ( 1970 ) . " L'Eau à la Bouche " paved a reliable way for Eric Rohmer's sloppy filmography who was certainly paying close attention to Doniol-Valcroze's debut effort . Set in a lascivious castle , the grandchildren of a dead lady are gathered with a notary to share her inheritance . Very quickly , light-hearted gallantries brew and underpin this reunion . Unlike " la Maison Des Bories " which wasn't very New Wave , l'Eau à la Bouche is a zeitgeist of the tendencies of this trend : there are a lot of fades to black , sequences that are quite abruptly cut and a scenario that tends to get loose halfway through . As for these characters who haven't got weighty problems , is it sensible to care for them ? If you're a Rohmer devotee , you may disagree with me . It's watchable at a pinch for its actors who later were to find parts that lived up to their talents .
Camp at its most hilarious !	In 1960 , " Psycho " made Robert Bloch a famous horror writer . In 1963 , " whatever happened to Baby Jane ? " made Bette Davis and Joan Crawford potential actresses for horror flicks . Davis carried on with Aldrich in " Hush hush sweet Charlotte " while Crawford had to content herself with William Castle , not a bad choice ( He would buy " Rosemary's baby rights and would produce it four years later ) for a follow-up . SPOILERS This is a hilarious funny movie . I do not know if it was intended as a spoof , but to my eyes , it's grand guignol , a grotesque farce where Crawford overacts as hell : with her black wig ( see " Psycho " , there are many similarities in the two stories , it was obvious that Bloch was capitalizing on the 1960 blockbuster ) , her fake bracelets and her ridiculous dress , she's bound to net horse-laugh . And what can we say of this incredible scene where TWO Joan Crawford are fighting against each other complete with axes and screams ? And another one where she tries to seduce her daughter's squeeze ? And another one when she quarrels with the so-called fiancé's snobbish ( probably nouveaux riches ) rich wealthy folks ? And another one . . . the list is endless . . . BIG SPOILER But the biggest surprise , so to speak , concernsDiane Baker's character . At least , in " Psycho " , did Perkins show signs of nervousness , of mental fragility , so his behavior made sense . Here , it's impossible to swallow the " truth " when Baker turns into a monster ( and the mask is one of the biggest joke I've ever seen in a horror movie ) . If you like kitsch , guilty pleasures , do not miss " Straight-Jacket " !
Waxing a movie . . .	The subject is not new , there were lots and lots of movie where people became waxworks in museums . Andre de Toth has an eponymous movie ( 1952 ) where the criminal was in love with a waxy Marie Antoinette . Okay the final special effects are quite impressive when the whole house is melting . But the best scenes are the ones where the horror is mastered : in the church , in the house ( where there could be someone alive ) , and in the places where the " inhabitants " of the town are gathered . The sequence in the movie theater is rather impressive , and the use of " Whatever happened to Baby Jane ? " makes sense , for the two sisters were monsters too and Davis on the big screen is somewhat waxy . ( But make no mistake : Aldrich's film is a true masterpiece , which " House of wax " ( 2005 ) is not , far from it . ) The characters are as uninteresting as any of the " Friday the Thirteenth " boy and girl . And the unexpected final twist is here to justify a more than possible " House of Wax 2 " . . . Let it melt away !
Tom Cruise + Michael Mann = a tepid thriller	Max ( Jamie Foxx ) is a taxi driver in Los Angeles and works mainly at night . It's a nine to five work reversed as far as the time is concerned . A humdrum life which he dreams of escaping . One night , after he took a lovely black lawyer , he accepts the alluring offering of 600 dollars from a weird , cynical customer , Vincent ( Tom Cruise ) to go and stop at five different places where he has meetings . But during the first one , a corpse falls on Max's cab and reveals him the true nature of his customer . He's a serial killer and the taxi driver has no other choice than to obey him . Public made an ovation to this " Collateral " in September 2004 and users on this site seem to like this movie very much . I have mixed feelings about this thriller made Michael Mann who is certainly an American director to remember with works like " Heat " ( 1995 ) or " the Insider " ( 1999 ) . It's true that it's suspenseful as one could wish and there are twists , a good dose of fighting , shooting sequences in store to keep the aficionados of the thriller happy . The backdrop , Los Angeles at night adds to the unsettling aura the film tries to convey . Besides the fans of the film would rejoice more if they could watch it all lights turned off . Mann is also certainly a technical virtuoso with prime camera work . So what could possibly go wrong ? Well several drawbacks . First the choice of Tom Cruise . In spite of his commendable efforts to try to convince the audience that he can act a cast against type role ( here a serial killer ) with gray hair to show that he has grown up , it doesn't really work . Several actors had contemplated to do the same thing , that is to say to get out of their ordinary roles commonly attributed to them . Some have succeeded like Brad Pitt in " Fight Club " ( 1999 ) or Jeff Daniels in Clint Eastwood's " Blood Work " ( 2002 ) but other failed like Robin Williams in Christopher Nolan's " Insomnia " ( 2002 ) . Cruise definitely enters this second category . He's also almost totally bland but his partner Jamie Foxx is better than him . And the film goes unravel because of some sequences in the taxi . In these moments , Cruise explains to Foxx his motivations for his actions and what he learns from these lessons . In short , the scenarist inserted dialogs that were supposed to be " deep " and " meaningful " but I don't find them truly convincing . And some of his traits is exaggerated . As Max says : " did you have to kill this cop who was married with children ? " And when the story starts to stagnate , Mann boosts the interest again with far-fetched tricks . It's better illustrated in the sequence when Foxx starts to speed up and they have a car crash . Cruise absconds to fulfill his last contract . Max , meanwhile discovers the identity of this last person and . . . I'd better stop here but I think the end of Max's nightmare smells the reheated and doesn't really redeem Mann's work . His film is also marred by unlikeliness . Does " Collateral " does the job it was made for ? Yes but that's all . If you're not too demanding and if you have time to kill on an evening in front of the telly , this might be your cup of tea . Otherwise , pass by .
Ridley Scott + Jerry Bruckheimer : a so-so war movie	The third movie made by Ridley Scott in less than two years after " Gladiator " ( 2000 ) and " Hannibal " ( 2001 ) , " Black Hawk Down " is a movie too much for him just like it's a movie too much in the genre of the war movie . Yes , I know it enjoys a very good mark on this site ( 7 . ) but I don't think it is fully justified and by writing a very mixed review about this movie , I will surely provoke an angry response from its admirers . I think I know why the director was interested by the presented topic which is besides a true story : the critical situation of an American army who after a failed military operation finds herself besieged in a town full of Somalians armed to the teeth . Scott attempted to make this tragic episode authentic and for this he doesn't pull his punches . It's true that visually and technically his making is breath-taking . The dramatic evolution of the conflict , the shooting and fight sequences are carefully shot with style . The thread of the story is perceived by several bunches of soldiers but we are never out of one's depth . Moreover , the film-maker depicts with a very straightforward and gritty way à la " Saving Private Ryan " ( 1998 ) , atrocities of war . The film includes quite a lot of shots with bloody faces or ripped bodies which are difficult to forget . " Saving Private Ryan " showed similar horrors during its first half an hour . " Black Hawk Down " stretches them during about an hour and a half ( only the beginning is devoted to the introduction of the most important characters and to the careful preparations of the operation ) and this is where things go wrong . Scott wants to impress and insist on the tragic nature of the war . But by constantly climbing in violence and opting for ( very ) realism , " Black Hawk Down " gradually becomes monotonous to watch . Sometimes , one can feel that the machine turns without gripping and the whole is lackluster . Ultimately , you are never really touched by the hardness of the fights and the soldiers ' distress causes more indifference than sympathy . If Scott's making is awesome ( in spite of the reserves we can have about it ) , one can't say the same thing for a repetitive screenplay which tends to fray throughout the movie . It tries hard not to keep turning over the eternal clichés about war ( and for once , they aren't too overwhelming ) . But it is overall weak for other reasons . For example , the dramatic extent of the conflict is always perceived from the Americans ' point of view . In front of them , the Somalians always seem to be distant . We virtually don't know what they think or feel . They just keep on fighting against their adversaries . In another extent , some characteristics of the script testify the producer Jerry Bruckheimer's signature like dominating patriotic feelings but also a salutary image from the USA eager to put an end to Aidid's dictatorship in Somalia and for this don't think twice before directly intervening in the country . There aren't big surprises at the level of the cast . It's just an adequate and tailor-made casting with actors accustomed to act in action or war movies like Tom Sizemore or William Fichtner . For them , it's business as usual and they act military characters like the ones we can imagine . However , one can't say that there's a sole main character but several which brings a little of credibility and neutrality in the story . Overrall , if we could compare " Black Hawk Down " to a present , this is how it could be presented : the wrapping is alluring but what the box contains is hollow . We just retain Scott's spectacular making and the bloody effects . And for Bruckheimer , it's just potboiler for him .
Aristocracy vs manufacturers .	The cast and credits read " a film by Fernand Rivers supervised by Abel Gance " . Gaby Morlay in one of her countless melodramas . She plays a young aristocrat whose family is completely broke . Her fiancé , a duke marries her rival , a rich lumpish bourgeois . So she marries in money with a wealthy manufacturer but she refuses to consummate the marriage . She will soon discover that her hubby has got a big heart . Gance might have filmed the short sequences which take place in the factory , with the molten metal , which are more inventive than the rest which is routine melodrama . Best sequences are those when the Bourgeois tries to become a Gentihomme : as Molière proved it in the Seventeenth century , it's " mission : impossible " . He overturns the countess's cup of tea , and , during the posh meal , his crude manners cannot fool his refined son-in-law and the servants . Like this ? Try these . . . . " Les Affaires Sont les Affaires " Jean Dréville 1942 " Le Roman D'Un Jeune Homme Pauvre " Abel Gance 1935 " The skin game " Alfred Hitchcock 1931
Blistering	Marcel Blistene was an odd-job man of the French cinema . His movies dealt with Edith Piaf , comics character Bibi Fricotin , saints ( " Le Sorcier Du Ciel " a biopic of the Curé D'Ars which I saw at Sunday school and which scared me to death ) and more . . " Le Feu Dans La Peau " got a PG 18 when it was released and vetoed by the Centrale Catholique Du Cinema " that deemed it " immoral " . It did not spare the viewer the sordid details . The characters are defective people who look like Emile Zola's minus the writer's genius . A peasant meets a city girl ( Giselle Pascal ) during his military service ; he takes her to his farm where his sexually-repressed brother ( Raymond Pellegrin ) and a crude servant ( Nadine Basile ) live . The men are bestial brutes , the women sluts or false virtuous ladies . The screenplay is sometimes very weak : for instance , Pierre ( Philippe Lemaire ) appears and disappears without much purpose , which makes the viewer think that the whole thing was made haphazard . A note about the actors : Raymond Pellegrin goes to great pains to give his character substance ; by far the best actor of the cast , he is to be commended considering the limits he is working under . He was Giselle Pascal ' s husband in real life . Giselle Pascal had reportedly an affair with Gary Cooper before marrying Pellegrin . She never made a truly memorable movie , with the eventual exception of " Horizons sans Fin " ( Jean Dréville , 1952 ) which was about pilot Helene Boucher . Nadine Basile was specialized in demeaning parts ( see also " La Neige Etait Sale " ) , a nasty Arlette Thomas who also played parts today's actresses would not even think of .
What the hell is the " Matrix ? "	Launched in 1999 and one of the most successful movies of the year , " Matrix " is an amazing movie . It ranks among the movies that leave the spectator bemused , even after several projections . In a way , it's very similar to Paul Verhoeven's movie " Total Recall " ( 1990 ) . The two movies have got a complicated but mesmerizing screenplay , astounding special effects and especially , a main character with two faces : Keanu Reeves . It means that at the beginning of the movie , he's introduced as someone who leads a peaceful but common life . But an unexpected event will transform his life and make him a hero . " Matrix " is also a very well stable movie that you can divide in two parts : the first one mainly focuses on long dialogs sequences that incline to reflection while the second one honors stunning action sequences . A remarkable performance crowns it all and Keanu Reeves finds here his best role to date . The sole weakness of the movie is the love affair between Reeves and Laurence Fishburne . The Wachowski brothers felt compelled to include this , maybe to give their movie , a Hollywood nature . An awesome science-fiction film that easily ranks among the best movies of the nineties .
The second part . . . .	. . . . of an exotic adventure yarn . The French telly never bothered to show the first part , but fortunately , " mistero del tempo indiano " begins with a ten-minute summary of the precedent episode . Obviously intended to match the scale of Fritz Lang's two-part " Der Tiger von Eschnapur " ( 1959 ) , it cannot hold a candle to the German master's work , but it ' s quite entertaining , actually very close to a comic strip , the likes of " the Phantom " . The hero , played by a rather obscure French actor , Paul Guers , is a virtuous doctor , who recalls Paul Hubschmid's character ( an architect ) in Lang's work in two parts . By the same token , Claudine Auger ( a French beauty who was to become a James Bond girl in " Thunderball " ) ' s character is not unlike Debra Paget's . But I say it again , the - virtually unknown - director is no match for Lang . It's the umpteenth story of the wicked Indians , fond of human sacrifices , who try to chase the English out of their motherland . But do not panic ! there are " good " Indians who help her majesty Victoria's troops along the way . And the aforementioned doctor displays progressive views about the Indians . And the villain says that their civilization was brilliant when the Limey one was still prehistoric . He's not wrong . SPOILER : This is a good example of " happy end " ; both Auger and Senta Berger's husband are killed in the final fight , which makes things easier .
death like time's got her own plans 2	Many horror movie fans were pleasantly surprised by the discovery in 2000 of " Finale Destination " . Its author , James Wong who cut his teeth on the X-Files saga ( I'm not a fan at all of this series ) had made a killing with this classy B movie which encompassed teenage , slasher , fantastic and horror movie in the same package . The viewer remembered of the invisible but omnipresence of death which was adamant about her plans and desperately tried to kill one after the other , this bunch of students led by Alex who tried to thwart her plans . It paid off well since this mix met the public's approval . So , in the wake of this little triumph , the nearly inevitable follow-up was De Rigueur . At first sight , " Final Destination 2 " seems to have the essential elements to have thumbs up from the audience . First , the multiple crash is impressively filmed . The director David R . Ellis who was a stunt-man and partly responsible for some action sequences in " the Matrix Reloaded " ( 2003 ) could show his expertise to film this vertiginous sequence . But his certain talent for directing can also be felt here and there throughout Kimberly's efforts to subvert death's plans . Then , there's a palpable , taut scenario . Many horror flicks today rely on special effects as the backbone of the film . Okay , there are rather flashy special effects here but used only when necessary . The moments during which death tries to take away the unfortunate victims are set with clockwork precision and announced with foreboding signs . Macabre humor is also more than acceptable but as the film is much more gore than the first chapter , it is not really for the faint-hearted . So , it's an enticing menu and one figures that one wouldn't want to shelve " Final Destination 2 " in the messy department of useless sequels . But if one takes a closer look , one realizes that Ellis ' film is merely a photocopy of its first edition . The strengths of the film also constitute its weaknesses . Weaknesses because the qualities which contributed in cementing the first installment in its place of winner are rehashed here without novelties . The starting point and its development are identical as the thrust of the first film : to try at all costs to outsmart death's sinister intentions which isn't prepared to accept this and that's all . The surprise effect is absent and in short , you take the same old people with adequate replacements . So , the pile-up superseded the plane crash . Then , it seems that the authors tried to justify the making of this second chapter by linking the present story to a connection with the story of the first flick ( check the sequence in the middle of the film when the ill-fated ones talk about the bunch of students in the first film ) . But in spite of these attempts and new tricks displayed by the scenarists to try to give the story substance , it's a run-on-the-mill fantastic film . If you really enjoyed the first opus , then this may be your cup of tea . If you liked it without hailing it as a miracle , you can pass by . What's the point of watching the same story again with minor changes ? And the end leaves the door open for a third episode which opened early this year . Is it any good ?
What are these secrets ?	This is a sketches film introducing the Apfelglück doctor ( Thierry Lhermitte ) and four of his patients who are living each other a weird or embarrasing adventure . Among these patients , there is Jacques Villeret who's got to spend the night in a disturbing hotel . Philippe Bruneau , actor of a movie in which a cinema crew doesn't succeed in making a sequence . Then it's Alain Chabat's turn in the skin of a quizmaster who can't get rid of a crude candidate ( Roland Giraud ) . At last , it's Thierry Lhermitte's turn ! ! Indeed , following a fatal malaise , he's going to heaven ( where everything's fine . . . ) . Most of sketches movies are unequal and this movie isn't an exception to the rule . If the second and the last sketches are rather correct , the third one is falling into vulgarity and easiness , whereas the story of the first one is told and made in an indigent and unlikely way . Moreover , the movie often introduces some abortive situations and a bit of a mess that hardly maintain the spectator's attention ( Lhermitte who tries desperately to get rid of his wife in heaven ) . Now what to say about the Apfelglück doctor ? Well , he's a bad doctor : he has no control over his secretary , he doesn't care about what his patients say to him . But , we learn nothing about his professionals secrets . . . At the end : it's an untidy and light movie . In the register : sketches film , " Paris vu par . . . " is clearly superior .
A true story . . .	. . . but time has not treated Jacques Rouffio's flick kindly . Two stories within fifteen years of one another , two surgeons who committed suicide because of a an old doctor ( Charles Vanel ) and his offprings who could not stand competition . Using gossips , false rumors and slander , the clique gets away unharmed and can repeat its bad deeds again , as the last picture shows . It is not easy to blend two stories and they do not hang well together . As he did not want the viewer to loose the vital lead , Rouffio felt compelled to repeat his scenes . The best would have been not to show the Depardieu plot , the weakest of the two . Doctor Berg is a caricature ( the actor , 27 at the time , was too young ) , complete with moustache , bow tie and hip suit . This is not an in-depth portrayal : you cannot claim that a surgeon epitomizes a " humane " medicine just because he climbs up the hospital wall to visit his patients or because he cheats in his chic gambling circle . The Michel Piccoli story is certainly more moving and the film should have focused on it , Michel Auclair's shrink character telling us what happened before .
another pointless remake	Rare are the French comic movies that succeed in attracting attention to the USA . When it's the case , the concerned movie can be successful in Uncle Sam's country and sometimes , American film-makers feel like making a remake . It happened with the French movie : " un indien dans la ville " . In general , these remakes are as poor as sequels to a movie . But I found this remake a bit better than the original movie : actors are better directed , the screenplay is more worked and the movie is funnier . It doesn't stop it from taking back some ( similar ) elements to the French movie ( here , the Liberty statue took the place of the Eiffel tower and the trapdoor spider is always there to spread panic and fear ) . It also borrows sequences from several other American movies and as a consequence , " jungle 2 jungle " gives an impression of " déjà-vu " . In the end , the movie brings nearly nothing to an already well-worn topic .
A " liebelei " remake	" Liebelei " was one of Max Ophuls's triumphs in the thirties . One should notice it was Romy's mother ( Magda Schneider ) who was the lead . The first thing to bear in mind is that " Liebelei " was BARELY a romantic story . A harsh tale , more like , where princes do not generally marry shepherdesses . For the young hero , Christine is only a liebelei ( passing fancy ; amourette ) . A quarter of century later , the screenplay had been watered-down and cheapened . Romy Schneider taking on her mother's part was perhaps not a very good idea in the first place . Delon and Schneider met during the shoot and they became THE lovers of the late fifties / early sixties . As for " Christine " it's a tragedy ( " liebelei " ) turning soap opera , even if the ending was kept . Supporting cast includes Micheline Presles , Jean-Claude Brialy and Fernand Ledoux . Schneider's voice was dubbed in the original version , for her French was not good enough at the time . With terrible results , because the voice that dubs her ( like in " Sissi " ) borders on silliness . After " Christine " and a very small cameo of Romy in " Plein soleil " ( the talented M . Ripley , first version ) , Delon and Schneider would reunite twice : in " la piscine " ( 1968 ) and in " the assassination of Trotsky " ( 1971 )
You'll cry for mercy and still there'll be more ! ( Keith Reid )	" A chacun son enfer " ( everyone has his cross to bear ) is a horrible story , in which a mother discovers that , after the worst ( her daughter is kidnapped , then killed ) , there can be something even worse . You do not believe me ? Well see yourself . Annie Girardot gives an over-the-top performance which never gives the audience any respite , beginning with her scene at the radio station where she urges the abductors to have pity on her child . There's a strange similarity between Girardot's character and Sophia Loren's in Cayatte's " Verdict " ( 1974 ) . But here enough is enough : the plot becomes some time obscene and the sordidness of the situation is depicted with no regard to propriety . Nuance had never been Cayatte's forte , but here he goes too far . Whereas former works were strong pleas against death penalty , miscarriages of justice and innocent people's plight , this one has no other purpose than to provide the audience with cheap thrills .
Not enough Winton !	This is the film Guy Hamilton made just before the blockbuster of his career " Goldfinger " - which , although very different from " Man in the middle " , remains one of the best ( who says best ? ) Bond ever made - . The problem with " man in the middle " is that there's not enough scenes with Keenan Wynn . We would like to know more about him , about his childhood , his relationship with his colleagues , women , etc . Only Trevor Howard's final plea - which an ominous music makes disturbing - really tells us about his psyche . Also handicapped by a decorative female character who brings almost nothing to the plot whereas we ' re waiting to know more about Winton's motives . Average .
The darker side of man . . .	Ambitious but only moderately successful . The first lines promised great things : every man has a secret garden , the dark side of his mind , you never know who he really is , blah blah blah . . . It seems that Delannoy had a film / symphony in mind . What Frank Borzage ( " I'll always love you " ) and Abel Gance ( " Un grand amour de Beethoven " ) were not far from achieving is here an aborted attempt . To be successful , the movie should have focused on the Barrault / Feuillère relationship . Barrault was ideally cast as an accursed musician , he had everything the character needed , but Charles Spaak's script meanders through clichés of melodrama . The ending looks like a poor man's " children of the paradise " , which Barrault's presence reinforces - Both movies are contemporary - . Some good scenes but they are few and far between : - the Kremer / Noblet meeting in the castle where the old virtuoso asks the young musician to do him a favor : never come back to his mansion , cause he is sure he is going to destroy everything he touches . - Kremer , in the eating-house , refusing to hear a record which is muzak to his ears . Delannoy would do much better in the following years : : " la Symphonie Pastorale " " Dieu A Besoin des Hommes " " Les Jeux sont Faits " or " Le Garçon Sauvage " are eminently commendable .
Front window	This is the contemporary French thriller : all form and no substance ; flashy pictures , disturbing characters and poor screenplays . The director obviously relied on his cast : Jean-Louis Trintignant and Stefania Sandrelli were once in Bertolucci's critically-acclaimed " il conformista " ; both are very talented actors but neither the rest of the cast nor the story are very exciting : the boy who spies on his neighbor with his telescope , the average viewer has seen this at least a hundred times or more . ( " You like astronomy , don't you ? " is supposed to be a " funny " line " when the sleuth investigates a murder ) . The young peeping tom's parents characters are caricatures ( they are not educated as their neighbors so when their son plays loud his opera arias , the crude father calls it " queer music " ) ; as for the depiction of the bourgeois life is concerned , you ' d better take one of Claude Chabrol's best films ( those of the late sixties ) any day . Ditto for the two cops : the old veteran versus the young ( not so young anyway ) bloody idiot subject is not new either .
the son of " Vertigo " ( 1958 )	An unemployed actor , Jake accepts the offer from a friend to put him up in a luxurious flat where with a telescope , he can admire and fantasize about a female neighbor who languorously takes her clothes off . It's the same " show " every night . But it's the start of a perverse game which will prove to be infinitely more dangerous for him and will catch him in the heart of a big conspiracy . " Body Double " is a piece of work that bears the seal of its auteur Brian De Palma . Manipulation and voyeurism are once again the two unifying threads of this effort and called upon to play with the hero's nerves and even the audience's . Unless you've never heard about him , it's blatant that De Palma went for a new ride in Hitchcock universe . " Rear Window " ( 1954 ) for the observation of the female neighbor and as the Master said : " don't start to spy your neighbors , it can get you into trouble " , " Psycho " ( 1960 ) for the sparse cinematographic writing and the somber story of doubles and especially , the shadow of " Vertigo " ( 1958 ) hangs over the whole film . The scheme of " Body Double " is practically identical to Hitchcock's masterpiece . In the 1958 film , James Stewart suffered from vertigo . Here , the hero is claustrophobic and the replacement is done . Then , De Palma's effort includes features that are common to his films : a main character suspected of a murder he didn't commit and who has to manage all alone to find the culprit and to exempt himself . An actress of X-rated films who isn't depreciated and ends up helping the hero even if at first , she thinks he's crazy . To shot his incredible adventure , De Palma has recourse to a sparse directing with taut camera work to fuel suspenseful sequences like the very long one when the hero follows Gloria . To increase the interest , the filmmaker interspersed his work with bombastic visual effects and there's the rub . These tricks besmirch the film and its story , notably the second part after Gloria's murder ( a would-be creepy sequence that turns out to be farcical ) . And one can't skip on certain disputable steps of the plot : is it sensible from De Palma to make Gloria and the hero kiss each other after the latter didn't manage to arrest the killer ? The two people don't really know each other . And in the second part , how can Jake precisely identify the woman who made her striptease in the neighboring flat ? Many women must have an identical act . Because of his hateful penchant for visual excesses and a lack of rigor in the story , the student doesn't match at all the Master . I say it : De Palma's finest efforts are the ones exempted from extreme effects like " Sisters " ( 1973 ) or " Obssession " ( 1976 ) . The latter being " Vertigo " ' s truly legitimate son .
. . . . and another remake in disguise .	A man suffering from amnesia coming back from war to be confronted with a wife and child . . . Well we've seen this before and long ago . . . To be precise in 1938 , when Curtis Bernardt - who continued his career in America afterward - directed his " carrefour " starring the excellent Charles Vanel and Jules Berry . Here the director - very academic - substituted the Middle Ages for WW1 and presto ! an original screenplay ! Actually , and even the scenarists will never confess it it's " carrefour " remade as " Martin Guerre " remade as " Sommersby " . Best part comes from Nathalie Baye , who portrays a woman who could belong to the Middle Ages as well as to our own era . Bernard-Pierre Donnadieu would have outstripped Depardieu , had the script given him the chance to shine . Since I posted my comments , an user wrote that both " carrefour " and " Martin Guerre " came from an incident from the sixteenth century . Perhaps so , but in my native France , nobody said a single word about that . " Carrefour " was based on a John Kafka novel ( not to be mistaken for THE Kafka ) , and as for " Martin " , famous scenarist Carrière - who wrote for Luis Bunuel - and director Vigne took all the credits . Jean Tulard , the most erudite historian of the French cinema does not hint at the American novel of Janet Lewis in his " dictionnaire des films " . I must add that in France " MG " is not looked upon as the great film it is in America . It's actually a return to the swashbuckler genre that was thriving in the 1955-1965 years in France , a bit more realist perhaps , to gain the highbrows audience , but not necessarily better . The real writer was actually Jean de Coras , conseiller au parlement de Toulouse , whom you can see in the film ( Roger Planchon ) and who reported the story .
Going my way . . .	And as far as Marcel Carné is concerned , going down . . " Le Pays D'ou Je Viens " should be reserved for Gilbert Bécaud's fans , and for them only . As Bécaud is a singer , Carné is compelled to bestow on the audience a song every fifteen minutes . As I'm not a fan of Becaud's kind of music , the only palatable song is the title track to my ears . I'd rather have the Christmas songs ( " IL est Né Le Divin Infant " and Adolphe Adam's " Minuit Chrétiens " ( = " O Holy Night " ) , sung by Les Petits Chanteurs d'Anières , in the vicarage or in the church during the midnight mass any day . Carné's directing is listless ; it's hard to believe that the same man made " Le Jour Se Lève " seventeen years before . He does not know how to show to advantage Becaud's singing . But there's worse : making an actor play two parts is a very difficult task . It takes a strong experimented thespian , able to suggest two different personalities : Louis Jouvet , Michel Simon or Fernandel could pull it off . Becaud cannot , and it's hard to tell Eric and Julien apart . The candy-floss color cinematography , as Bob Taylor points out , retains a certain charm , the charm of the old Christmas cards ( as the beginning and the end of the movie show ) , and Agostini's pictures are certainly pleasant enough . Christmas time in a small town in the fifties is nicely shown . Claude Brasseur , Pierre's son ( Pierre Brasseur was one of the leads of Carné's magnum opus " Les Enfants Du Paradis " ) appears in a small part . The script is sometimes ponderous : Françoise Arnoul's dress gag is repeated twice . If you are looking for a Xmas tale , you'd better take Capra's " it's a wonderful life " ( aka " La Vie Est Belle " )
Spy thriller , French style .	Does it deserve such a low rating ? Frankly , no . There were , in the wake of James Bond , so many dismal spy thrillers that you've got to be kind to " peau d'espion " . Anyway , it's not James Bond style : no gadgets , no high budget . The plot might repel some , since it remains almost indecipherable till the scene between Jourdan and Berger in the car at night . And it's an hour before it shows up . But , although implausible , - like 99 % of the spy thrillers anyway-the story makes sense and features good actors : handsome Louis Jourdan , the French lover par excellence ( he did a lot of work in Hollywood ) , gorgeous sexy Senta Berger , veterans Bernard Blier and Edmond O'Brien . Sometimes looks like a poor man's " torn curtain " if you take China instead of USSR . It's a far cry from it , but , once again , it's passably entertaining stuff . A rather unpleasant scene nevertheless : a very unfriendly look at long-haired boys ; and they said they were all hippies !
the moral is : rush on the video games , they're much better	To adapt a video game for the screen is like adapting a comic strip to the screen : the result is rarely convincing . " Lara Croft : Tomb Raider " isn't an exception to the rule . When the film was launched in June 2001 , it was announced as one of the biggest commercial successes of the summer in France but it didn't meet the expected success ( hardly 2 million of spectators in the theaters ) . However , the publicity campaign was quite important ( U2's clip " elevation " featuring Lara Croft was released at the same time with the movie . Now concerning the movie , well under its compound subject , the screenplay is a great banality . A sect called " the Illuminati " tries to appropriate a talisman that would enable his members to control the whole world and time . But for this , she needs two pieces of a triangle and Lara's got one of them . A mad chase's starting . . . In short , this is the classical outline specific to adventures movies . Not only was the screenplay inspired by several elements which made the success of this type of movies but it also drew elements from the video game " Tomb Raider " . For example , in the movie we find : magic objects that assure power to the one's got it , mysterious places ( the temple in Cambodia ) , the struggle between good and evil . This is just a lacklustre movie that doesn't innovate anything in the type of the adventures movie . It could have been another Tomb Raider's adventure on a video game . Moreover , the movie irritates a little by its worthy dialogs and its unlikely special effects . As for Angelina Jolie , she's quite convincing , physically and morally in the main role . At the end , " Lara Croft : Tomb Raider " is a film without any great surprises , a bit nonchalant and the fans of the video game will maybe find something in it .
The visitor	A parboiled cross between " rose tattoo " and " a streetcar named desire " , both Tennessee Williams ' plays . A hunky man ( Vallone ) comes to a farm in Italy on the Goats island ( ? ) . There are three women who live on the farm : the mother ( Madeleine Robinson , one of my favorite French actresses in one of her worst parts ) , the sister-in-law ( hot Magali Noel ) and the daughter ( a young Dany Carrel who puts her hair in braids , at least at the beginning ) . Guess what happens ? The movie is handicapped by ponderous symbolism such as the birth of the kid ( a goat's kid ! ) or the long sequence of the well , which in the end amounts to nothing . Most of the time , the dialog does not ring true , seasoned actors such as Robinson and Valone overplay . It is a boring movie .
Henry James's classic	Directed by Raymond Rouleau , a man who had practical experience ( he had directed Signoret and Montand in " Les Sorcières de Salem " , Miller's classic ) , with a cast including Suzanne Flon as the lead and Robert Hossein and Marie - Christine Barrault supporting ( but as ghosts , they don't have much to do ) , we could have expected an above average MTV film . It turns out to be only average , and for a good reason : Jack Clayton's 1961 version " the innocents " was so haunting it became the definitive adaptation of " turn of the screw " . With all his talent , Suzanne Flon cannot match Deborah Kerr's brilliance and the color does not make up for the glittering black and white of the English movie . Au Contraire . Filming in color this story of darkness is a mistake .
a lackluster parody	The year 2001 wasn't a good one for American comedies . " Legally Blonde " starring Reese Witherspoon was spoiled by a cock and bull story , " Evolution " showed an Ivan Reitman who was running out of ideas and with the horrible " Freddy Got Fingered " , we had touched the bottom . I watched " A Knight's Tale " a couple of days ago and it was all grist to my mill . It is supposed to be a parody of medieval movies but I think it is incompatible to combine rock songs with a story that takes place in the Middle-Ages . All right , this feature makes " A Knight's Tale " stand out from other medieval action flicks ( the first sequence which shows a crowd singing " we will rock you " by Queen is the most memorable scene of the movie ) but it doesn't mean it is good for all that . There are funny aspects in this unexpected representation of the Middle-Ages : the blacksmith who supports William is actually a woman , Jocelyne declares to William that she didn't read the Bible ) but Brian Hegeland conceived a largely predictable story and the presented topics incite to discourage the spectator . I will admit that I quickly myself got bored . At a pinch , this movie enables to appreciate Heath Ledger's fair performance . His ambitious and generous temper , his charm make him an ideal knight . He is ably assisted by a handful of colorful actors with a mention to Paul Bettany who shines in the role of Geoffrey Chaucer . That said , don't expect much for the rest . One last thing : apparently the story takes place in 1356 during the Hundred Years ' War , because in one moment the Anjou earl commands troops during the Poitiers battle . Given that Chaucer was born in 1340 , he was sixteen years old in 1356 . Here , he is presented as a 30 year old character ! Brian Hegeland made an unacceptable mistake .
Everyone ' s bleeding .	It is to my knowledge the only novel by the great Richard Matheson to have been transferred to the screen by a French director . Georges Lautner , who made Mireille Darc a star in the sixties was responsible for ponderous comedies . From time to time , he would come up with an intriguing offbeat work . So were the highly superior " le septieme juré " , " La route de Salina " ( Rita Hayworth's fans should have a look ) and " la maison assassinée " . " Les seins de glace " ( Matheson's " someone is bleeding " ) has a good title : it's a wordplay : in French , " saint " ( saint ) and seins ( breast ) are homonyms . " Les saints de glace " is a short period ( 11th , 12th and 13th of May ) when the weather is reportedly cold . And the heroine's breasts are icy cause she cannot stand men anymore . Unfortunately , I do not think that this movie is on a par with the three movies I mention above : first of all , Mireille Darc is a limited actress and her acting is not effective in a part which demands intensity , mystery and ambiguousness . Think of Catherine Deneuve in Roman Polanski's " repulsion " and you will know what I mean . But that's not the only flaw . First intriguing and even absorbing in its first half hour , the movie becomes repetitive and drags on . You will guess the final twist long before the end . Delon appears only after 20 minutes . He and Darc were in love at the time and that explains why the final scene has a certain strength , not unlike what the French call " amour fou "
ethereal	Like so many contemporary French thrillers , " cette femme-là " is no substance and all atmosphere . Josiane Balasko portrays a cop down in the dumps , desperate because of her only son's death on the 29 th of February . Every four year , when the fatal date gets closer , she begins to have awful nightmares all about suicide . A woman hung herself ( or was she helped ? ) in a wood . Balasko investigates and finds herself in the heart of a muddled confusing story . The final lines on the screen are , par excellence , the easy way out . The picture is dirty à la " Seven " and the music is lugubrious although , oddly , the old fifties hit " young love " comes back from time to time along with other American easy-listening tunes . There's the obligatory hint at S / M , the obligatory gay interest and the obligatory moving " mum's alone " story . THe screenplay is finally derivative and all we see on the screen was treated by George Simenon a long time ago . You'd better choose Nicloux's " Une affaire privée " ( 2002 ) which had at least a disturbing ending .
A coarse comedy . . . .	It was a genre which was very popular in the early thirties in France . Two other good examples are " Les Dégourdis De La Onzième " and " Ignace " where Fernandel was featured too . Here he is only supporting as is Jean Gabin . The " crazy barracks " style is really an acquired taste . This kind of comedy is terribly dated . Even with Raimu who plays Captain Hurluru , a military man who seems to make it rough all over the place and who finally is a good man , with a great heart who pays for the headcheese his squaddies have stolen . It's occasionally funny , notably when the general comes for the review and punctuates every captain's gaffe with a terse " it does not really matter " . In those lovely barracks , you can sing , smoke , drink and eat headcheese in the prisons . Based on Georges Courteline's work , a writer who used to write spoofs on the army and their iron discipline .
When paths of fear and alibis are black . . .	. . . And the nightmare is hung on your tree When an after dinner party's in the back Will you waltz into darkness with me ? ( Paul R . Michaud , 1980 ) First adapted for the screen by Truffaut in 1969 ( " la sirène du Mississipi " ) , with pretty good results . Although Woolrish's ( Irish's ) tragic side eludes the French director , the latter makes up for it by adapting the novel to HIS style and by depicting an amour fou . There were good tricks , particularly the Snow White comic strip and the final open ending . And now a remake . Can this be called remake by the way ? After all , it was an American novel from the start . Jean-Paul Belmondo's , Catherine Deneuve's and Michel Bouquet's parts are taken on by Antonio Banderas - a more credible planter than his French counterpart - , Angelina Jolie - here I would favor Deneuve's perverse presence over her - and Thomas Jane - whose part is much more important than in Truffaut's version . At first sight , I thought that " original sin " was more faithful to Cornell Woolrich ( William Irish ) than Truffaut . " Waltz into darkness " indeed as the characters move from the luminous landscapes at the beginning of the movie to the dimming light of the brothels , the dives , the dark corner of the streets and the station full of smoke . And beginning the movie when the die is cast ( the whole film being a flashback ) is Irishesque to the core . His novel " I married a dead man " , a close relative to " Waltzing into darkness " , begins with a woman realizing that now the game's over and they ( she and her love ) have lost . " I married a dead man " was adapted by Robin Davis in 1982 and was marred by a stupid happy end . That's what happens in " original sin " . Its last sequences are ludicrous and laughable ( notably , the priest's help ) and almost destroy the murky atmosphere the director managed to build . Most of William Irish's novels are desperate and most of the directors seem to be afraid to follow him into his darkest night .
Si tu m'aimes . . .	This 1937 movie , which has become very hard to see nowadays , is actually entitled " si tu m'aimes " ( = if you love me ) but the IMDB title is more appropriate considering what the story is about . A young girl ( Aubert ) in love with an electrician engineer ( Barrault ) becomes a celebrated chanteuse in les folies bergères . He flies to Africa for his job and she will have to choose between her career and her love . The story is itself undistinguished and the directing is mediocre-at a time when the French cinema was at the height of its power - and the interest is only anecdotal now . Jeanne Aubert was a successful chanteuse , notably in " les folies bergères " some kind of French Jeannette McDonald . She was married to an American millionaire , king of corned-beef , who took resounding proceedings against her when she went on the stage again , in spite of his ban . There's an interesting - for those who care - look at the thirties folies bergères , fly - on - the - wall insight . The talent show is probably the best moment with all these people trying their luck on stage as an artist draws their caricature . Now for the most interesting things : the three other leads were among the very best actors France had ever known . Michel Simon and Arletty work wonders , but their lines are rather weak and they would do much better in " fric frac " and " circonstances atténuantes " ( both from 1939 ) . Jean - Louis Barrault , who plays Aubert's sweetheart , will team again with Arletty in 1943 : and this time for what many consider as the most important film of the whole French cinema - in 1979 , a poll put it at the top of the list , before " la grande illusion " and " casque d'or " - : Marcel Carné ' s " les enfants du paradis " .
Rising . ?	The best moments are the ones which deal with video manipulations . That's typically Crichtonesque : in " mondwest " , which he directed , he created a fake world , in " coma " , things are not what they seem . " Looker " reveals a threatening side of advertising , and advertising is par excellence manipulation . Let's mention that Antonioni's " blow-up " had already tackled the " there's more to the picture than meets the eye " topic though , and even DePalma's " blow out " displayed more care and respect for the audience . Unfortunately , Crichton does not direct here . Philip Kaufman is always showing off , his remake of " body snatchers " made up for the lack of new ideas with gaudy pictures and a fair share of nudity . And if you're looking for nudity , you will not be disappointed here . If you're looking for substance , suspense and relevance , it's definitely not your cup of tea . Kaufman even calls Hitchcock for help : the murder which we see on Mako's glasses is a " strangers on a train " rip-off . What remains is Eagles-versus-rising sun economic feud : most of the time , it's boring , because the movie is overlong , and the killer's identity is not such a big surprise ( and he dies a terrible death at that ! ) . Sean Connery who produces this film , teams with Snipes and , as a lot of actors before him , falls in the trap of " hostile cops partners at the beginning , who little by little find reciprocal esteem . ( We've been in this movie before )
Stan flies away , the film doesn't	This first effort from Steve Suissa has certainly a biopic whiff because it originates from some vivid memories . Prior to this very so-so film , he cut his teeth in cinema as an actor , in many cases in small parts . And before this , he went assiduously to the movies like his main protagonist , Stan ( Clément Sibony ) . As he said : " I went a lot to the movies and the movies I watched helped me to answer questions I asked myself about life " . Cinema served him as a guide for his walk of life . However , I do not think that his first offering as a director " l'Envol " is a movie to remember . It even falls short of the mark . The umpteenth story of a teenager who is persuaded that he was born to be an actor has been told and told over and over again before . Instead of embarking in uncharted waters , Suissa sedately films a more than mundane story by following an ultra mapped out scheme and everything seems telegraphed . So , Stan is a moody teenager who after he saw his best friend dying before his eyes decides to make his dream come true . He leaves a sultry familial cocoon who of course considers his intention to become an actor as a folly to settle down in a little seedy room , has drama lessons . But if one wants to become a great actor like Robert De Niro ( in one scene , Stan with his female partner Julie ( Isabelle Carré ) rehearses a scene from " the Godfather " ( 1972 ) before his drama teacher ( Francis Huster ) , first one has to read and pore over great playwrights like Samuel Beckett . Stan will be bent on doing this . Then , he struggles hard to get a role in a play , a film or a made-for-TV film until . . . In parallel , his grandfather ( Bernard Fresson ) has a seizure and is compelled to go to the hospital . Enough in enough ! It's a menu that smells the reheated and which encompasses faded ingredients like the impending feuds between Stan and his family , one of Stan's leisure is boxing ( how original ) , the obligatory love affair which also reproduced in real life between the two lovebirds . In 2000 , Sibony was dating Carré . But also , one member of Stan's family wants to marry his girlfriend who belongs to another social-cultural background to the discontentment of Bernard Fresson and Stan's family . A heap of clichés serves as the scenario . Another major flaw which handicaps Suissa's effort is the presentation of the secondary characters , especially Stan's family . His relationships are treated in a glib way . The parents ' features especially the father's are so gross that it makes certain sequences unbearable to watch . The father is so formidable and daft that he is a grotesque caricature . As for the mother , she isn't totally opposed to Stan's desire but to stay in good terms with her son and to limit impending feuds , she prefers to agree her husband . It's sheer rubbish . But Suissa's flip way of introducing his characters also goes against Bernard Fresson , an obnoxious and a bit tyrannic butcher . He's too subtle an actor to content himself with such a cardboard character . And Francis Huster's part in underwritten . He's an excellent thespian and he proved it in Francis Veber's delicious " Dîner De Cons " ( 1998 ) . But here he doesn't really shine . . It's the mark I would grant to Suissa's effort and I'm indulgent . At a pinch , the energy Clément Sibony conveys to his mercurial character would be enough to watch this flick but don't expect too much . He seems to have palpable skills of actor in spite of setbacks like the lousy " Promenons-Nous Dans Les Bois " ( 2000 ) which reached the streets virtually in the same time as " l'Envol " .
A belle and her beaus	When the film was finally released in Duvivier's native France , it did not meet critical favor . I personally find little fault with the opinions expressed . " Lydia " is a confused cold work . Duvivier's great American movies are not " Great Waltz " or " Lydia " . They were yet to come : " tales of Manhattan " and " Flesh and fantasy " are immensely superior to the aforementioned efforts . " Lydia " is supposed to be a remake of " Un Carnet de Bal " , Duvivier's indisputable masterpiece . But the two works are worlds apart . I would go as far as to write " Lydia " is to " Carnet de Bal " what " The long night " is to " Le jour se lève " . But Carné's chef d'oeuvre was remade by Anatole Litvak whereas Duvivier redid himself . Actually " Lydia " reminds me of Duvivier failed film " Untel Père Et Fils " ; it's a hodgepodge : a grumpy granny with a golden heart , a sailor , the Civil War ( ? ) , a blind pianist , the sad fate of blind children during the nineteenth century , the good lady whose life is not empty cause she creates a house for these unfortunate kids ( a permanent feature of the French cinema of the era : see also " Le Voile Bleu " - remade as " the blue veil " - and " Péchés de Jeunesse " ) . Nothing is left from the original work , the Madeleine of Proust of the French cinema : and showing Merle Oberon with her three beaus ( and the fourth is not far away ) does not make up for Marie Bell's spleen , solitude and nostalgia on the banks of the lake . One should also add that the male characters are not really interesting . Orson Welles was a great Duvivier fan and it's probably the reason why Joseph Cotten is part of the cast . Later , Welles would borrow the female star of " Au Royaume des Cieux " ( Suzanne Cloutier ) from Duvivier for his " Othello " . The best of this movie is its pictures : the ball is nicely filmed , although a bit kitsch ; the snowy landscapes are enhanced by a refined cinematography . The sound of my copy is rather lousy . The music , which is intrusive , often drowns out the actors ' voices .
Swashbuckler !	The 1955-65 era was the French swashbuckler heyday and Jean Marais was the hero of that generation . He had given up his artistic ambitions of the Cocteau period ( " la Belle et la Bete " " les parents terribles " ) , but his panache and his charisma remained intact . Pierre Gaspard-Huit is not much of a director , but it's adapted from a Theophile Gautier novel and there's a good cast featuring Louis de Funes and Gerard Barray ( later , Duvernois in " abre los oyos " ) who was some Marais ' s alter ego and who plays the villain here . The ending is melodramatic to a fault - but so was Gautier's novel-and anyway Marais's acrobatic feats ( no stunt double , what contemporary actor can say the same ? ) are all that counts .
Parrots and slogans	In France it is often mooted that Marcel Carné without Jacques Prevert was nothing or almost nothing . But when you watch Prevert's screenplays which were not directed by " Le Jour se Lève " director , you're compelled to admit that all was not gold . And Richard Pottier is not that much bad a director as " Caroline Chérie " or the overlooked ( and remarkable ) " Meurtres " testify . And Billy Wilder stole the " Some like it hot " plot from him ! " Un Oiseau Rare " begins quite well with a very modern subject : stupid slogans were a foretaste of the obnoxious world of advertising we are forced to live in . And the scene when all the executives are boot-lickers is still relevant today . In the tradition of Beaumarchais , the boss admits that all he had to do was to be born and to spend his daddy's dough ( Some money remains cause I could not spend it all ! ) . . . But all that takes place in the hotel which would like to prove the FRench proverb " L'Habit Ne Fait Pas Le Moine " ( = One shouldn't judge by appearances ) is never really exciting nor really funny . All is too conventional . If Prévert means madness , wit , black humour and rebellion against established order , then you can pronounce him dead here . There's not even one line which is memorable . The bourgeois happy end takes the biscuit . Sorry Writer's , but sometimes we do not agree . . .
ah ! the family . . .	Elie Chouraqui isn't a remarkable figure in the French cinema . After , a little convincing attempt in the comedy with " Paroles et Musique " ( 1984 ) and a failed incursion in the thriller with " Man on Fire " ( 1987 ) which made the object of an American remake in 2004 , he chose to tell the story of a family with numerous members drowned in their sentimental problems . Through the presented topic , the director was inspired by Claude Lelouch's cinema ( Chouraqui has earned his spurs as an assistant producer with the latter ) . As a matter of fact , " les marmottes " is especially worth for its band of actors . From Daniel Gélin to Virginie Ledoyen ( it was one of her first major roles ) through Gérard Lanvin , Chouraqui invited a concentrate of well-known actors coming from different generations . Their talent is sufficient to make up the characters ' lack of depth and the director's impersonal style . If you are a fan of Lelouch's and Sautet's cinema , that is to say if you are fond of sentimental movies , try this film . Otherwise , skip it .
Another prison movie . .	" Zonzon " means " Prison " . This is a movie which takes place in jail and one cannot say it renews a genre which has produced few masterpieces ( " Le trou ' by Jacques Becker ) . There's the obligatory violent scene in the showers , there's the obligatory body search and the obligatory beating up , there are the obligatory nasty wardens , there's the obligatory dope the inmates smoke every day , there's . . . you name it . Considering the limitations they are working under , the good cast , particularly Jamel Debouzze and Pascal Greggory , give their characters substance and prove that they would have deserved a better script and a better director . Best scene is Greggory's wife's visit : " Mum , when shall we leave ? " the boring ( and probably ashamed ) prisoner's child asks .
I wish I could love this movie . . .	As I am a big fan of the bands who secured the glory of Factory Records , especially Joy Division and Durutti Column , I was quite impatient to discover " 24 Hour Party People " . I watched it last night and the first thing i will say will be the following one : how disappointed I was ! The scriptwriter Frank Cottrell Boyce and especially the director Michael Winterbottom did a really bad work and I will try to explain why . For me " 24 Hour Party People " is an enjoyable movie to listen to , mainly thanks to the music . Someone has written on this site that you had to be British to appreciate the music . Not necessarily . I am myself French and I love most of the bands who signed for Factory Records . Obviously , you have to like this time ( English independent music of the eighties ) , this culture . That said , these bands aren't very known in France where they remain at the stage of cult-bands . Michael Winterbottom's flick was apparently successful in Great-Britain , but in France it was belatedly launched ( on the 4th June 2003 ) and it went unnoticed . But the main problem is that " 24 Hour Party People " is , visually an exhausting movie to watch . I must say that I don't appreciate very much the making adopted by Winterbottom . There's an amateurish side , reinforced by a granular and quite dirty photography in his way of filming that I highly disapprove . It seems that his camera can't stand still even in the quietest moments . On another hand , when the movie arrives at the end of the eighties ( the golden age for Manchester ) , as if he wanted to recreate the crazy atmosphere of the town in 1989-1990 , he didn't skimp on the flashy effects which ends up annoying the spectator . Then , Winterbottom must have been influenced by " Trainspotting " ( 1996 ) because in his directing , we can sometimes detect a video clip side . To go on , the authors of the movie seem to have forgotten one important thing . Factory Records wasn't only limited to Joy Division and the Happy Mondays . There was also Durutti Column and New Order . All right , the movie doesn't forget them but you can only see them for a few minutes . Given that , the film nearly skips the mid-eighties and quite obviously Joy Division and the Happy Mondays's careers especially interested the authors . Due to this , you can easily separate the movie in two parts . The first one mainly focuses on Joy Division while the second involves mostly the Happy Mondays . This characteristic is confirmed with the cover of the original soundtrack which depicts Tony Wilson ( of course ) but also Ian Curtis and Shaun Ryder . By way of consolation , we can object that Winterbottom had intuition for the cast because the actors he hired to play the musicians are very true to life , especially the ones in the roles of Ian Curtis and Bernard Sumner . Furthermore , the actor who acts Martin Hannett is very convincing in the shameless personality of this extraordinary producer . Tony Wilson's voice-off is necessary to guide us through the most important stages . So as to give the spectator interest in the film , it can also be a good thing to make Wilson directly speak to the camera to make us share his feelings , his thoughts on Manchester , the music . So long as this idea doesn't overload the movie and I have unfortunately this impression . Winterbottom and Boyce should have restrained these too frequent apparitions . The screenplay retained the most outstanding moments in the history of Tony Wilson and Factory Records but it doesn't stop it from having neglecting important stages as well . For example , I am sure that the fans of Joy Division would have liked to see the band recording their great disembodied album , " Closer " ( 1980 ) . Then , in the first part of the work , the " punk " and " new-wave " spirit are well rendered ( in one sequence , we see one character taking off from the wall a poster depicting Pink Floyd's album " Dark Side Of The Moon " ( no Pink Floyd in 1977 ! ) as well as the festive one in the second part through the Hacienda and ecstasy . But because , the director wanted to dazzle the spectator , at a visual level , it is difficult to fully enjoy this exhausting film . So you are never touched by a movie that is meant to take a nostalgic look at a past time . This is my opinion about " 24 Hour Party People " : excellent music but an average movie . If a director wishes to make a film about Alan McGee , the former boss of Creation Records ( Oasis and Primal Scream's former record company ) , I hope he won't do the same mistakes as Michael Winterbottom with this flick .
spleen . . or tedium ?	After a neorealist period ( Il grido ) , Antonioni begins his movies dealing with incommunicability with " l'avventura " in 1960 , continues with " la notte " ( 1961 ) and " l'eclisse " ( 1962 ) . This trilogy is in black and white and features Monica Vitti , his favorite actress - although in " la notte " she's only supporting , the main part being played by Jeanne Moreau - . ' IL deserto rosso ' is more of the same ; it's even more difficult and austere than the three former movies . It is the first time Antonioni has experimented color and the results are impressive : he creates a depressing landscape where the colors are cold , drab and dirty . The depiction of an industrial dehumanized world is convincing as Vitti , suffering from neurosis , roams aimlessly along this desert ( wonderful lines : her son : " the yellow smoke contains poison , the birds will die " ; mother : " no , they know it does , and they don't come here anymore " ) . During almost two hours , absolutely nothing happens , frames of mind , people holding conversations that are always incomplete , pointless actions , roads leading nowhere . . . . The problem is : are we moved by all that ? Can we relate to this woman's despair ? As far I'm concerned , only partially , not to say bluntly no . Incommunicability had already been treated by Roberto Rosselini : in " Europa 51 " he put Ingrid Bergman in the same world as Vitti ; when the world pressure began too hard to bear , she rebelled in her own way , she did not accept the society in which she lived in , nothing to do with Vitti's listless character . In " Viaggio in Italia " , the invisible wall between a man and his wife ( George Sanders and Bergman ) was already here . This couple vibrated through their suffering and their despair , Vitti and her husband do not . Rosselini created flesh and blood characters , Antonioni's ones have ectoplasm strength : such are the two characters of " l'avventura " searching for a disappeared girl , the wealthy couple of " la notte " - who only exists because played by peerless Mastroianni and Moreau - , forgetting their ennui in their friend's palace . " My characters move in a rich milieu , because their feeling are not brought about by money " Antonioni used to say . That does not prevent them from being selfish , egocentric and " I-me-mine " . With his follow-up " blow-up " , Antonioni gained world-wide success and he continued the color experiment , as an acid green London testifies . The plot becoming completely abstract , the characters will become less important , therefore a more satisfying movie . Until the very end , as he was disabled , Antonioni was obsessed by color : his last movie was a remake of Jean Cocteau's " l'aigle à deux têtes " , with a stunning color treatment .
him against the world	If I had to give my opinion about this movie , I would say this : it is the meeting between " Amélie Poulain " ( 2001 ) and the Podalydès brothers ' cinema . A shy and unassuming man would like to charm a woman , Odile . For this , he stole her wallet so as to arrange a date with her . She accepts . But what Grégoire doesn't know is that a series of unexpected events and disasters will turn his night into a nightmare . As we can see by reading this summary , the story rests on comparatively classical bases and Artus de Penguern ( both the director and the main actor ) told it with a zany and fanciful humor that gives birth to whacky comical situations . The meeting of two peaks of the French cinema ( I must however admit that although I'm not very fond of " Amélie Poulain " , I enjoy the Podalydès brothers ' films ) should give an entertaining success . But however , the movie doesn't work . All right , the comical sequences follow on from each other without injury times . All right , the presence of dreamlike sequences enables to lighten the movie ( when Odile identifies with Mme Bovary ) . In another extent , through Grégoire's trouble , we can detect a caricature of French people who are ( a little too ) fond of football . A passion that can lead them to madness . The mayonnaise isn't thickening because there is too much ponderousness and not enough subtlety in Penguern's style . Because of this irritating fault that harms the film , it is difficult to laugh honestly and Odile should have crossed the street to reveal her love for Grégoire from the beginning . This latter wouldn't probably have known so much trouble . . . This clumsy film was Penguern's first movie . Maybe , will he improve his style in next movies in the future .
Its days are numbered .	One more time , Bulwer-Lytton's book was cheapened in this movie which was to be L'Herbier's next-to-last one . It ' s got a good beginning and a good ending but what remains is a muddled story , not faithful to the original plot , saved by the magnitude of the actors ( Georges Marchal , Micheline Presles and Marcel Herrand ) . The beginning promised great things : it is a flash forward , repeating the final lines of the novel , when the archaeologists discover the places where the - fictional - events took place ; then a court room where a man stands accused which makes most of the film a long flashback . The leads ' names have undergone changes : Glauco / Glaucus becomes Lysia ( s ) and Ione becomes Helene / Elena ; Nydia , the young slave is not blind and she is killed early in the movie which impoverishes the character who was desperately in love with the hero . The poison which makes Lysia lose his mind and his memory is a pure invention from the screenwriters . Of course the Christians are here , but they come at the most awkward moment . The eruption of the volcano is pretty good for the time and the movements in the crowd and the panic are well directed . But if you come to Pompei , the guide will tell you it was impossible to escape by boats and that there were no survivors . Like this ? try these " Gli ultimi giorni di Pompei " ( 1959 ) The Bonnard / Leone Tarzanesque version should be reserved for Steve Reeves ' fans . " Last days of Pompey " was a fine mini-series in the eighties , the best version I know of the celebrated novel . Starring Olivia Hussey , Nicholas Clay and Lynda Pearl .
a buddy movie . . .	. . . like apparently all the ones you could have watched before . This effort cranked out by Ron Shelton rests on basic bases . Two cops from Los Angeles are compelled to work together . There's Joe Gavilan ( Harrison Ford ) , a seasoned policeman who has recourse to unconventional methods to do his job . He has to team up with young Calden ( Josh Hartnett ) . Both of them are involved in an investigation revolving around a series of murders in the world of rap . But in parallel , the former also works as an estate agent to make ends meet while the latter teaches yoga and dreams of becoming an actor . . . American cinema has already offered us products boasting two mismatched cops who are compelled to work together to solve a murder or to clarify a judicial affair like " 48 Hours " ( 1982 ) or " the Lethal Weapon " saga . " Hollywood Homicide " finds itself deeply rooted in this tradition with the portraits of the two men I described earlier . But it is different from the other buddy movies because the viewer discovers another face of the American police . Some members are obliged to occupy a second job to provide for their needs . Thanks to this , Shelton renews a little the genre his flick belongs to with the contribution of Robert Souza who was a former cop . The director turned to this perspective with a playful eye and thus his film has strong comedy accents . Is it enough to ensure the vision of the film ? Well , Shelton's venture and his intentions are rather commendable but they amount to a lame movie . It oscillates nearly all the time between comedy of manners and detective film and has trouble to keep a unity and a stable pace . It is at times monotonous especially in the first half and it sometimes takes a boisterous turn . Shelton also obviously tried to bestow his work with an action-packed side in his story , notably with an endless chase in the second hour ; first in car then on foot which throws the film off balance . The options chosen by Shelton to showcase the two heroes ' private lives also get the film embroiled in shallow subplots . Then as the film boasts two stars , Shelton and Souza seemed to proportion correctly Ford and Hartnett's roles so that each of them could have equal parts on the screen . You can check this remark throughout the film by the numerous signs or clues related to the respective lives of our duo . If this film had been more tightened and fluid , it could have been the perfect contender to completely transcend and renew the buddy movie .
Alan J Pakula's disappointing swan song	Alan J Pakula made a name for himself thanks to the stunning thrillers he made in the seventies such as " Klute " ( 1971 ) , " the Parallax View " ( 1974 ) , " All the President's Men " ( 1976 ) . Alas ! More than twenty years after the release of these movies and at the screening of " the devil's own " , this director seems to have lost his talent and inspiration . First , " the devil's own " features two Hollywood monsters : Brad Pitt and Harrison Ford but Pakula badly manages them . You are under the impression that he wanted to balance their respective sequences so that each of them has his own equal part on the screen . A particular moment clearly shows it . The day after Pitt's arrival in the USA , he comes into contact with the arms dealer Billy Burke to purchase missiles . Pakula alternated this moment with a sequence aiming at showing Ford in his role of bold cop . This demonstrative side is useless for the plot . On another hand , Pakula steeped his movie with sentimental romance for Pitt and Ford . Even if this latter point is only a detail , it makes the movie uninteresting by endowing it with a somewhat Hollywood character . It goes to show that counting exclusively on two famous actors to save a movie is not sufficient . It can even hinder its success . The disappointment of " the devil's own " also comes from the fact that not only is Pakula powerless to try something new but he is also unable to renew the detective movie . He exploits without any major surprise , a few themes with overrated reputation . You can also detect in it a lack of relief : the IRA subject is barely sketched out . Then , the relationships between the characters often boil down to a series of looks that speak volume , of pistol shots , of weak dialogs . Let's add that the movie accumulates the stereotyped characters , the predictable sequences . All these shortcomings reveal Pakula's lack of investment in his film . " The devil's own " is the final movie of a weary filmmaker . It is a pity to see him leaving the cinema on a disappointing movie , ( he was to die one year later in a car crash ) .
A mere mortal thinks he's God ?	This is the second Pierre Jolivet movie I see ; the first one I saw a couple of years ago ( " force majeure " ) was marred by a happy end which made the story null and void ( not to mention a very poor cast : Patrick Bruel ) . " Simple mortel " is a different matter , simply because it goes to the very end . And it allows some uncertainty to remain after the viewing . - Is-it a sci-fi film in which ETs try to get in touch with the hero , the " chosen one " ? - Is-it the story of a man going nuts ? This is a really offbeat story , without one single special effect - which is quite a feat - , with a slow beginning : the first fifteen minutes are a bit boring . But the movie hits its stride after and will remain absorbing till the end : series of bizarre warnings , of events that should not happen but did happen . Jolivet's main quality is to put his disturbing facts into daily life . Does the hero actually hear those voices who ask him to save the planet ? After all , in the late Middle Ages , it happened once to a young peasant girl from Lorraine , asking her to save France . She said she heard three saints ' voices . Nowadays the extra-terrestrials have replaced those holy men and women . It does not make a big difference .
The animal lover	1994 was a beneficial year for Jim Carrey for three movies revealed him to the general public and lined his pockets : " the Mask " , " Dunb and Dumber " and " Ace Ventura " . At the level of quality , " Ace Ventura " finds itself between the two movies . It is better than the " dumb " movie made by the Farrelly brothers although it doesn't match the success of " the Mask " . And precisely , in France , unlike the USA " Ace Ventura " was released after " the Mask " consequently to the commercial triumph of the latter and probably in order to arouse the public's interest for Jim Carrey . Having watched the hare-brained sequel , " Ace Ventura : when nature calls " ( 1995 ) before the present movie , I was able to compare the two movies and it is arguably the first one which is superior . Tom Shadyac isn't a renowned film-maker but in " Ace Ventura " , he shows his ability in bringing a story to a successful conclusion while keeping an eye on his main actor's acting . The main difference with " Ace Ventura : When Nature Calls " lies in the fact that the detective story isn't too spoiled by Carrey's grimaces and his bombastic gestures . In another extent , the humor verges on bad taste , but fortunately , rarely . And there are some good gags without vulgarity which make honestly laugh . " Ace Ventura " is more bearable and slightly higher the average of comedies in which Carrey acted . A last thing : if your favorite pet , one day goes missing , you've got someone to bring it back as fast as possible in your home .
Childhood's end .	Robert Siodmak's first German career was about to come to an end . " Brennendes Geheimnis " was to be his last before Goebbels drove him away from his land . The last pictures have become prophetic : a woman draws the curtains , a very poetic scene in a story which was filmed several times , in the silent era and then in the seventies . A boy and his mother stay in a hotel near a lake . The teenager meets a fascinating man who can be a singer , a conjurer , and can take him for a ride in his sport car . Then the mother seems attracted by the man too . The boy's jealousy rises , culminating in a scene on the road at night where the boy waits for the man who is stealing his mum . The boy discovers how hard it is to grow up . Is he himself in love with his mother , or does he fear his parents ' marriage may be in jeopardy . The young actor who plays Edgar is very convincing in an ambiguous part . Afterward , Siodmak left Germany for France where he began a new career by directing the indifferent " Sexe Faible " . Some of his FRench films ( " Pièges " " Mister flow " ) were interesting but the best was definitely " Mollenard " which predated all his outstanding films noirs of the forties . Like this ? try these The Fallen Idol Carol Reed 1948 Le Soufflé Au Coeur Louis Malle 1971
Proteus Generation or the years to come .	When we realize today how the computers changed our life , " demon seed " can easily be looked upon as a film ahead of its time . A bizarre cross between " Rosemary's Baby " and " 2001 " ' s " Hal 9000 " , one feels ill-at-ease after the viewing . The screenplay may seem far-fetched but today it can become a transparent metaphor : we might be the computers ' prisoners and it won't improve with time . The computer might know intimate details about us , he may " rape " us in a way . But what remains impressive today is how the director and the script writers managed to sustain interest while using only one character most of the time . Most of the time , the audience is left alone with Julie Christie and the " monster " ( there are snatches of " Frankenstein " too ) , and the viewers can easily identify with her character .
L'Eternel Retour .	Another movie of the Occupation days . There are harsh words said of this film , although it retains a small cult among horror and fantasy buffs . First of all , it's an escapism movie , like so many others in occupied country : " Les Visiteurs du Soir " , although it did include veiled hints at the country's plight , was an escapism movie ; so was " L'Eternel Retour " which also featured Madeleine Sologne . Hindsight displays a certain charm : the director is not Marcel Carné or Jean Delannoy / Jean Cocteau , but he can create an atmosphere . Hr is abetted by a good cast . More than the young leads ( Madeleine Sologne and Michel Marsay , whose career was short-lived ) , it's the old guard who saves the film : Gabrielle Dorziat is as excellent as ever , Pierre REnoir is sinister-looking , Marcelle Géniat is no longer the nice old lady but a deaf and dumb disturbing servant . There's a curse on the Malveneur family . There's a black legend which tells that one of their ancestors sold his soul to the devil and he was cursed : man by day , wolf by night . These doomed aristocrats were hunters , hence their name ( Malveneur = evil venerer ) . But it also rhymes with " Malheur " ( = misfortune ) . The Last of the Malveneur is a scientist who carries out strange experiments on . . . nobody knows exactly what the does in the subterranean . Up comes a governess who ' s got to take care of the master's daughter . The wife has a heart condition , her sister-in-law is a masculine authoritarian lady . And nights in the old castle are not exactly peaceful . Based on Conan Doyle's " Hound Of Baskerville's pattern , the script lacks focus and the writers can spare 2 or 3 contradictions : for instance , the Malveneur are outcast , they must not be buried in the cemetery , a consecrated place ; however they ( or at least the sister-in-law and her niece ) go to church on Sunday ! There's a laudable attempt to link the legend with the last of the Malveneur's fate and , all in all , it's not that much bad after all .
a couple of roses under a glass bell	In his first long-feature movie , " Sitcom " ( 1998 ) the nasty piece of work François Ozon exploded a middle-class household with the intrusion of a rat that set the libido of the family free . In this flick directed by Francis Palluau , we will also watch a middle-class breaking into pieces . But the disruptive element isn't a rat but a duo of escaped prisoners ( later in the film we will learn how they could escape in , let's say preposterous circumstances which cement a little more the hare-brained climate in which the movie bathes ) . So , these two ex-convicts , MG ( Jean Dujardin ) and Gilbert ( Lorànt Deutsch ) find refuge in a charming middle-class house whose couple is about to celebrate its 20-year old marriage . Our duo has no other solution than to take this entire brood in hostage . But , contrary to all expectations , they are warmly greeted by the occupants who don't think twice before helping them , they are even ready to put their guests off , even to kill them if necessary . . . Palluau takes the spectator by surprise and takes him where he doesn't expect to go . Where he expects to encounter panicked hostages , he discovers strangely quiet and unscrupulous occupants . The Roze couple seems to be disconnected from the real world and from the gravity of the situation . By sheltering MG and Gilbert , they constitute themselves accomplices . One has to say that MG and Gilbert , in spite of their guns aren't bigmouths . So , the movie is constructed in its major part with a constantly eccentric tone which is out of step in relation to the action . The consequences are the following ones : to play down the importance of the murder sequences and sometimes it's nearly a dialog of the deaf between certain characters . To increase this gap between tone and action , Palluau even wrapped each shot of the house or the garden with a shimmering photography and shiny lighting effects . This doll's house seems to be virtually cut of the world although it belongs to a beautiful urban area ( where apparently nothing happens . . . ) . The starting point ( the hostage-taking incident made by two gangsters to save their skins is 1000 miles from originality but the treatment is drastically different and as the movie unfolds before our eyes , we can guess the director's intentions : to shatter this soft middle-class household but also to let the failings show through . Palluau couldn't resist ( it was almost inevitable ) the craving for exploding the Roze family and removing the masks of its members . Throughout the movie , we will discover their mindless even fatuous behavior and their hidden vices . I think that Palluau's intentions have a little family likeness with Chabrol's cinema , notably in the malicious humor . Besides , nods to one of the 5 best masters of suspense are well present either it is in gastronomy ( the delicious plain macaroons or the exquisite oenology session ) and the cast includes an actor who acted in movies which constitute Chabrol's creative peak in the end of the sixties and the early seventies : Michel Duchaussoy ( the Beast Must Die , 1969 , the Breaking Off , 1970 ) . And while we linger on the possible references , the tandem formed by Dujardin and Deutsch isn't very far from the ones Francis Veber made popular . That said , Dujardin's performance is more subdued than Depardieu's . Beside him , Deutsch as the awkward and timid Gilbert can match Richard . For the rest , there may be irregularities of rhythm : decent in the beginning and at the end of the film but slow-paces even sluggish in the middle but it's in these moments that the movie reveals what it has best in store . In the last half-hour , the plot really evolutes and comes to life . Moreover if the reversal of situation is contemplated but not completely finished , it's to drown a little more the Roze couple in ridiculous and bring out their idiocy . Then , elsewhere Palluau scattered his work with sarcastic humorist details which fit the intentions of the film closely . In the end of the road , Palluau was within an ace of targeting the perfect black comedy . Just a little more effort and the work will be done . At last , this cue pronounced by Carole Bouquet : " how nice it is to be a lovely b ! " is worth the trip .
Is it Ruth Rendell or Claude Chabrol work ?	Chabrol's plan was similar in " la ceremonie " to that of " la rupture " ( 1971 ) . Take a detective story ( Charlotte Armstrong for " la rupture " ( the balloon man ) , Ruth Rendell for " la ceremonie " ( A judgement in stone ) , then give it a " social satire " flavor . He did it all right in Armstrong's case which was a pure thriller . Rendell's case is much more different , since she is a much superior writer than her late American colleague . " A judgement in stone " is a captiving novel , very subtile , with interesting characters . The social critic is implicit , but sitting on the fence ; the bourgeois are sympathetic people , their daughter's proposal to teach the maid to read is sincere . But Rendell makes us feel the gap between this cosy intellectual life in which you enjoy operas and the illiterate world of the maid where books are enemies . A lot of the psychological side eludes C . Chabrol . First of all , Sandrine Bonnaire was not the character . She's much too beautiful . ( A young Shelley Winters would have fit the bill quite well ! ) In the novel , the heroine was some kind of village idiot with empty eyes who was not realizing her social condition . The same goes for I . Huppert , much too attractive to play her crude friend . Jean-Pierre Cassel and Jacqueline Bisset , on the other hand , are credible bourgeois and make up a bit for the weakness of the casting . Chabrol's work is not bad , by a long shot . But , while explaining what should be implied , his wholesale massacre loses some of its strength .
Ghosts story	When Michèle Mercier appears in the sequence when she's still " alive " and puts on a necklace , it is obvious that the director was thinking of her " Angelique " character . The scene looks like an outtake of the Bernard Borderie's saga . " Nella . . . " is certainly an underrated work : it does not rely on special effects or on gore and sex is kept to the minimum . Probably influenced by Bava , Margheriti creates fear with his camera , using elements of the settings , a mirror for instance . His lead is an earnest thespian , Anthony Franciosa , a former student of the Actor's Studio , not a mediocre amateur as we often meet in European horror movies . Supernatural is smartly introduced and the screenplay is much more elaborated than usually . Many people will disagree but Amenabar's style in " the others " is not that much different , even if that director is infinitely superior to Margheriti . " Nella . . . " was also certainly influenced by Robert Wise's classic " the haunting " ( 1963 ! ! ! ) as far as the conclusion is concerned . Poe's presence ( Klaus Kinski ) and the fact that the hero's first name is " Allan " do not bring much to the movie . In spite of the poor rating , I sincerely believe that fantasy and horror buffs won't waste their time if they watch " nella . . . . "
the omen thirty years later	The block Hollywood has been going through for several years must be big enough to prompt producers to produce remakes of successful films and " the Omen " is one of them . This remake opened on the 06th June 2006 , a beautiful date to serve the publicity campaign to promote the film . By the way , what's its contents worth ? I'll be frank and say that it's a well-crafted but lackluster menu for it contents itself to take literally virtually all the sequences of Richard Donner's opus and to reproduce without trying to bring something new or novel the different steps of the story . However , there's one major difference with its elder brother and it is to be found at the very beginning . The scenes in Rome at the Vatican weren't included in the 1976 movie . Otherwise it's the same draft-proof universe with , however some little modifications . In Donner's film , in one sequence Damien's mother was irritated by the noises her son made with billiards balls . In Moore's effort because of the modernity of the habits video games superseded these balls . That said , Moore succeeds better than Donner to build a latent and lasting tension to the audience and to ensure her a good dose of shivers and it often works . The best sequence would probably be the death of Damien's mother in alternate editing with Damien staring at a cop who's sweating . But the cast is patchy . Liev Schreiber was a better choice than Gregory Peck as the lead because he's younger . But Julia Stiles can't match Lee Remick . Ditto for David Thewlis who isn't as good as David Warner . As for Pete Postlethwaite , he was far better and disquieting in Bryan Singer's brilliant " the Usual Suspects " ( 1995 ) . But Mia Farrow as the housekeeper gets the lion's share and I can't help but smiling when I think about her real function in this remake : she has to defend Damien and so Satan whereas in " Rosemary's Baby " ( 1968 ) , she struggled against him . This remake of a good fantastic film doesn't certainly deserve to be disowned and the movie buffs who gave thumbs up to Donner's flick might be curious to have a look at it even if they know where they stand with it . Anyway , this remake of a fantastic film dealing with Satan is preferable to another lousy fantastic film on the same topic . See " End of Days " ( 1999 ) or " Lost Souls " ( 2000 ) . By the way , the little Harvey Stephens who held Damien's role in 1976 has a cameo as a journalist here .
Only a woman could direct it .	Jacqueline Audry is France's Ida Lupino : she was a director when women were only meant to be actresses , film editors or script girls . Her work begins to surface again , but really little by little . Some critics said that the laurels Agnès Varda won were actually Jacqueline Audry's . She had only one subject : woman . But who could do it better than a woman ? She was probably the first artist to cast a lesbian as a lead ( in Jean-Paul Sartre's " huis clos " , all the same ! ) ; just before " les petits matins " , she made " le secret du chevalier d'Eon " which cast Andrée Debar as a woman dressed up as a man . " Les petits matins " is a story of eighteen-year old Agathe with a firm independence of men even if she uses them to get to the côte d'azur . Along the way she meets a lot of people-because it's finally a road movie - , mostly men , whom the director does not spare : the macho proud of their brand new car , the forty-something who wants to take Agathe home , the strange handsome guy ( Robert Hossein ) under his mother ' s thumb - a spoof on Hitchcock's characters ? - . This is very light stuff , nothing intellectual , but often charming and there's a bevy of famous actors : Jean - Claude Brialy , Claude Rich , Lino Ventura , François Perrier , Pierre Brasseur , and the couple Bernard Blier / Arletty who team up for the first time since Marcel Carné's " Hôtel du Nord " ( 1938 ) . Plus two singers , the first of whom plays but does not sing ( Gilbert Becaud who wrote " let it be me " and " what now my love ? " ) , the second sings the title song but does not play . ( Charles Aznavour ) Agathe Aems who plays the lead never made another movie before or since .
A short story by Guy de Maupassant . . . . .	. . . . . Marcel Pagnol wrote the dialog and provided the movie with his own wife Jacqueline . Both him and Jean Boyer wanted Bourvil to play the lead . But the actor was reluctant , knowing Fernandel had created the role in the thirties . " But said Pagnol , you will be a better Normand than him cause you are Normand and your colleague was Provençal ! " The first scene is enough to convince you the part was tailor-made for Bourvil : the village idiot , leaping about in the meadows where the cows browses on peacefully , picking flowers . . . but when a woman comes near , he's so afraid he runs away . . . . Madame Husson and her circle of holier-than-thou ladies - including an old maid Madame Cadenas ( = Mrs Padlock ( sic ) ) - are looking for a chaste and pure girl who will win a hefty sum ! There's just one problem : the virgin girls are so rare that they are forced to elect a man : the village idiot ! Maupassant's story is faithfully transferred to the screen in the two first thirds of the movie . Pagnol's dialog scores high and the movie is much fun to watch . But the last third drastically wanders from the writer's work . When Bourvil leaves the fête and goes to the pond , and realizes how miserable he is , one thinks for a while that the thespian will turn the comedy into a drama - he is as skillful an actor to do this - . But the ending is finally disappointing , some days in Paris are not enough to transform a sexually repressed man such as him ! N . B : In Maupassant's short story , Isidore , the goofy peasant , goes to Paris too , but he begins to drink hard and becomes a wreck . His mother turns his prodigal son out , and he becomes a carter , with no love of his own , of course . Maupassant was not as optimistic as Pagnol .
Entertaining B-movie .	Gilles Grangier was never looked upon as an auteur and a lot of his sixties movies are really bad . But the fifties display a more interesting choice of movies : Bertrand Tavernier , a famous FRench director and a very demanding critic , admires " le sang à la tête " , " gasoil " and " le désordre et la nuit " , the latter being probably his best work . " 125 rue Montmartre " , more a Boileau-Narcejac ( " Diabolique " ) detective story style than a true film noir , is quite entertaining , and , given the stranglehold the nouvelle vague began to have on the French cinema , it's almost a breath of fresh air . Although by no means a nouvelle vague movie , by a long shot ( there were detective films among the nouvelle vague movies , " ascenseur pour l'échaffaud " is a prominent example , " a bout de soufflé " is another one ) , it shares with the young Turks a shooting on location , in the streets of Paris , with its bistros , its newspaper sellers and even its large impressive houses . The first part introduces the leads : Ventura is a newspaper seller , a loud-mouth who does not stop talking , particularly when he's eating ; Hirsh is his contrary : a nervous man , on the verge of madness , who seems to be in jeopardy . His wife , he says , tries to drive him insane to latch on to his valuable properties . But are thing really what they seems ? Pretty soon , Ventura realizes he's framed . There's a very good supporting cast including Jean Desailly as an astute cop , Andréa Parisy , Dora Doll , and Alfred Adam . The climax of the movie remains the scenes in the circus where suddenly Grangier stops his narration to focus on a clown act which segues into an impressive ending , which could make any B movie director proud .
the creation and the evolution of " Sushi Express "	who has ever dreamed of jettisoning one's stale living standards and to start again a new life on a new basis ? Such is the case in this film with Mathias ( André Dussollier ) , a disillusioned professor who is sick of the world which surrounds him . To provide him solace , one night one of his Japanese students offers him a dish of sushi and finds it delicious . With his advice and a little help from his friends including his mistress Claire and Richard Souriceau ( Jean-François Stévenin ) a failed but cheerful man , he opens a home deliveries firm specialized in sushi , " Sushi-Express " . At first , the firm has trouble to be profitable but with the arrival of M . Casier ( Michel Aumont ) , it takes off and is widely known in the whole Paris . But things start to go wrong when it has to conform to the laws of marketing which make the leaders lose their identity and generosity . With the help of three scenarists including Michka Assayas who has written a rich dictionary of rock in France , Laurent Perrin has elaborated and constructed a sparkling little comedy which plays on gags , witty remarks and comical situations . But the director goes beyond this and brings his thoughts about the leading of a firm which takes vertiginous proportions are to be found in the second part of the film . By conforming to the laws of money and profit , the values of money and a snobbish behavior will perhaps dwarf pure human qualities . And the film brings out an image of the world of work which rings true like this scene when the four main characters ask in turn to a Japanese chef if he's all right and the latter replies yes with every time a slightly irritated tone . Ditto for the representation of Paris with his inhabitants always in a hurry . The drawbacks of " Sushi Sushi " are the character of André Dussollier . It's a little hard to swallow that he's ready to open a home delivery firms given the cynical vision he holds about the world . His trouble to keep her mistress as she's attracted to a young , ambitious go-getter are less interesting than the rest . And the actors act characters who are a little stereotyped . But it doesn't stop the audience to enjoy an eminently watchable flick buoyed by playful actors . I would grant a mention to Michel Aumont , this sponsor who refuses to rub shoulders with high society and I dig his line : " I don't come to the world , the world comes to me " .
Uncertain glory . . . .	If you've seen Raoul Walsh's " Uncertain glory " , the resemblance of the beginnings of the two films will strike you . In both work , Errol Flynn ( Walsh ) and Gabin ( Duvivier ) are about to be guillotined but a bombing destroys everything , and they are free . So to speak . For France is either occupied ( Walsh ) or about to be ( Duvivier ) . Most amazing thing , the films were made at the same time , as propaganda movies . To be fair , one should say that Walsh's work is superior to Duvivier's . Duvivier and Walsh take two divergent ways then . But the subject ( and the moral ) remains roughly the same : an impostor , a man ( both Flynn and Gabin tell it so ) who is not afraid to die , but who wants to die honorably , not on a guillotine but while fighting for his country , thus redeeming himself . Duvivier's story is almost a rehashed " Bandera " ( 1934 ) , but it's not as bad as people generally say . Gabin ( what a great idea ! ) killed a man , but he was so poor , having been brought up in an orphanage , sent to reform school , blah , blah , blah , well we know the score ! . And as he becomes some talented Mister Ripley in the army , he nonetheless displays bravery , abnegation and sympathy for his mates . The most interesting scenes show Gabin with his pal from Normandy , who remembers Christmases with his wife and his sister-in law Jeanne-Marie . The soundtrack includes many military marches ( " La Marseillaise " " Marche Lorraine " " Chant Du Départ " ) . De Gaulle's speech ( France has lost a battle , but it has not lost the war . . . ) in English loses 90 % of its appeal . Duvivier's last American film , it's perhaps his least interesting , but anyone interested in Duvivier's work should watch it once .
Tomboy	Based on American novel called " Tomboy " , which makes sense cause the leader of the pack is a girl who , like the precedent user pointed out , resembled French pop singer France Gall . Daniele Gaubert would continue her career through the sixties , her most celebrated part was " lonesome the she wolf " a failed attempt at making a female " Diabolik " . Then she married ski champion Jean-Claude Killy and died from cancer at an early age . It was the second time Carné had tackled the " youth " subject . In his precedent - and IMHO much better - " les tricheurs " , he told the story of a girl , Mic , who tried to be part of a circle of rich kids , the golden youth of Saint Germain des Prés . " Terrain vague " is a different matter , cause it takes place in poor milieus . Ouside Big Chief ( Roland Lesaffre , Carné's favorite actor and his spokesman in the movie ) , the youngsters are beyond the adults ' command , and Carné is not afraid to say it's high time they faced up to their responsibilities . The stairs the tired lady is climbing step by step is a good metaphor of a lost generation of parents when their baby boomers grow angry and tired of the empty life they are about to live . No future . If nobody cares about us , why should we care about them ? That said , the first part is a bit list less , but things go much better in the second one , recalling sometimes " Rebel without a cause " , a feeling that the threesome Dan / Lucky / Babar reinforces : it will remind you of Natalie Wood / James Dean / Sal Mineo in Ray's classic . This was arguably Carné's last good film ( not great ) . All the films to come would be disappointments . We must not forget , never forget , that Marcel Carné was one of the greatest directors of all time in his heyday ( 1936 : " Jenny " to 1946 : " les Portes de la Nuit " ; between those two years , all Carné made was classic )
Historically , the first commercial movie dealing with the colonial war .	Claude Berri became famous worldwide with " Jean de Florette " and his remake of Pagnol's " Manon des sources " but his career had begun long before , in the early sixties when he was lucky to direct the great Michel Simon in " le vieil homme et l'infant " ( an old man and a Jewish child during WW2 ) . " Le pistonné " is no masterpiece but it broke a taboo : never before , a commercial movie had dealt with the colonial war . Some would say there had been Jean-Luc Godard's " le petit soldat " , but it was reserved for intellectuals and besides , it did not take place in North Africa . Claude Berri was virtually the first and the true forerunner of Yves Boisset ( " RAS " , 1973 ) and René Vautier ( " avoir 20 ans dans les Aurès " , 1971 ) . It's the story of a private , who does not feel like going to war , not at all . But duty calls . To avoid it , he tries to get somebody to pull strings for him ( that's what the title means ) . But alas , it will not work . Guy Bedos gives a fine performance as the squaddie , and he is so good we forget he's actually too old for the part . He's given strong support by Georges Géret as the warrant officer , a grumpy naive man to whom he makes believe he can bring Brigitte Bardot ( no less ) into the barracks . The second part deals with the war itself ( actually a guerrilla war ) and although it is mainly a comedy , one of the last pictures which shows a maimed soldier who bursts out laughing nervously leaves a bitter taste in the mouth .
And then there were . . . .	In wikipedia , you can read at the end of the long " And then there were none " entry : " although not a direct adaptation , " mindhunters " closely follows the storyline of the book " . It's true that some scenes bear more than a distant resemblance with Christie's classic thriller , but it is not the only one . It's closer , anyway to the play ( like all the versions but the Russian one ) than to the book . . It's mainly glaring in the last scenes where any Christie's reader will compare the three characters'situation to that of Vera , Wargrave and Lombard . That said , " Mindhunters " is not devoid of interest . You can also feel the " Saw " series influence when the " time is running out " . The crimes display some originality and the characters are a bit less cardboard than they usually are in this kind of flick . In the grand tradition of " Psycho " , the most famous actor ( Slater ) is killed in the first third . He should have studied the domino principle in his FBI school .
Fin Août Début Septembre	Simone ( Pascale Bussières ) is a young Canadian fashion model who is on the brink of a brilliant career . But this bright future could be thwarted due to a serious car accident of which she miraculously survives . In the aftermath , she decides to put an end to her professional life and becomes obsessed with the idea to have a baby . So , she persuades her best friend , Philippe ( Alexis Martin ) to act with and for her and the latter accepts provided they do it in the desert . A few days later , they are in this silent , eerie place . . . " Un 32 Août Sur Terre " is a curious work that will puzzle a good proportion of viewers . It reminded me a lot of " Twentynine Palms " ( 2003 ) by Bruno Dumont although this film is posterior to Denis Villeneuve's film . This was also a film set in an ominous , desert place and in which evolved two tortured characters . They had ( wild ) sex there and they were surrounded by an unforgiving humanity . In a way , humanity isn't also very gentle to Simone and Philippe in this film : the taxi driver jettisons them in the desert , Alexis is bludgeoned by a gang of ruffians . Simone's demeanor leaves the ground open for many interpretations : is it because she came close to death that she wants to have a baby ? Does she want to discover a new way of life ? And if so , where does it lead her ? Apart from other many questions that will rise in the viewer's mind , Villeneuve deftly uses the desert landscapes to create majestic , entrancing images . It's even a sort of " in camera " that the director manages to create . A sensation that will come again later when the two friends are in the cramped hotel room . The sense of fantastic is palpable throughout the film : from this car accident to these extra days in August that don't exist to this irrational sequence during which the gang beat Philippe to death . In the end , Villeneuve shrouds his film with a philosophical dimension revolving around life and death . In Philippe's house , there's a cover depicting Jean Seberg who saw her career taking off thanks to Jean-Luc " God Ard " ' s " A Bout De Soufflé " ( 1959 ) . Godard's detractors blame him for his intellectual pretensions which clutter his works . Many viewers will also deem this work as highbrow and elusive for understandable reasons . Keep it for a day during which you are prone to reflection and thought as it's not a work for the mainstream . And for French viewers , beware ! As Quebec people speak with a very pronounced accent , it's sometimes difficult to decipher their words
Walking down the aisle . . .	. . . is the heroine's obsession , idée fixe . She would do anything for it . This subject , which takes a back seat to the boys ' wild time is nevertheless much more interesting than the very bad things the guys do behind her back . The idea of turning Cameron Diaz into a hateful shrew is sheer genius : her angelic looks , when she enters the church after doing away with her intimate enemy , sharply contrasts with her dirty mind . I think that Peter Berg was remembering " the last supper " where Diaz ' s part was far from the nice-girl-next-door . There have been harsh words about this movie which is certainly flawed but at least is not politically correct and thus is worth a try . The bad taste is everywhere and tries to ape John Waters , the master of this , say , style . The screenplay does not spare anyone and anything and becomes a wholesale massacre . It's a pity that there should be so few potent lines in the dialogue . The actors are not really directed and most of the time , they overplay , and their performances , noisy and devoid of nuance , get in the way , particularly Slater and his when-I-grow - up-I-wanna-be-Jack-Nicholson act . Watch it anyway , if you look for something different : the weezers scene alone is worth the price of admission . And Diaz's fate in the last sequence will give you goose pimples
Some are born to sweet delight . . . . . .	. . . Some are born to endless night . A Parisian is arriving in a small village . In the French cinema before the war and even in the years which followed , a Parisian was something special for country people , a " person who is not like us " , almost an ET . More than Renoir's " Toni " , " La Nuit Sans Fin " ( Endless night ) recalls " Goupi Mains Rouges " where a member from the family came back to the farm : the others called him " Goupi-Monsieur " ( sic ) and when a crime was committed , it was only natural that he was the main suspect . There's a big difference from Becker's work : Olivier , the new farm worker is not part of the family ; he's got skeletons in his closet and on the farm he is the perfect intruder . The farmer's daughter ( Ginette Leclerc cast against type with her hair in breads ) feels sexually attracted to him , much to the other males ' displeasure . The movie really hits its stride in the last third : the action is very slow , depicting daily life on a farm in a forties , with an occasional gaffe : the flashback which " explains " the hero's behavior is far-fetched and seems to have been filmed by a different director who would not have seen the whole . But the last third is what the director aimed for : a stranger " not in town " like in the song , but in the village and in the nature . Wounded , he's looking for a helping hand but with the exception of an old doctor and a young farm aid , nobody will give you a shelter from the storm . Like Goupi-Monsieur , he was the perfect suspect when somebody was drowned in the pond , but as he was not part of the community , he had become the man you've got to get rid of . One good third , you hardly make it on the percentages , but it's an interesting attempt .
the dream catcher	Jean Pierre Jeunet ranks among a handful of French film-makers known and appreciated abroad . With his first feature-length film , " Délicatessen " ( 1991 ) , he had established himself as a real author with an original talent . Although I agree that his cinema appears as innovatory , I am not really fond of it . I hated " Amélie Poulain " ( 2001 ) and here , I approached " the city of lost children " with a little mistrust . Finally , I had a quite good surprise while watching it and I thought it was a more enjoyable movie than " Amélie Poulain " . However and apart obvious qualities , this original fairy tale isn't as strong as it is supposed to be because of the way the story is told . But I will come back to it later . It is easy to detect Jeunet's major influences . The way he centers his actors proves that he must be a fan of Terry Gilliam , notably " Brazil " ( 1985 ) . Moreover , his movie finds the humor of the Tex Avery cartoons again with quite easiness . As for the children who constitute the most important characters of the story , they seem to come from the French cinema before the Second World War due to to their costumes and their resourceful mind . With these characteristics , Jeunet and his codirector Marc Caro have conceived a plastically very attractive film that is visually a splendor . Scenery is the main star of it . I would grant a mention to professor Krank's domain , a real artificial city located between the sea and the sky and whose architecture is reminiscent of German expressionism . The careful reconstruction of the harbor , the costumes , the music and the photography contribute in recreating a threatening and nocturnal universe tightened by a gallery of odd or disturbing characters . It is also necessary to add that the film is steeped in strange poetry . As I wrote at the beginning of this review , the movie could have been powerful thanks to the story it presented but unfortunately , it isn't so . Throughout the film , the plot tends to fray and in the end , isn't equal to the whole . We could have dealt with a simple story but it seems that Jeunet and Caro have met with difficulties writing it and have somehow complicated it . The result is a little muddled story . On another hand , Ron Perlman who plays the giant with a golden heart is nice but as he constantly mumbles , it is often hard to understand him . Furthermore , using too many colorful and eccentric characters end up tiring the attention . It is a shame because the sequences when the professor Krank is the star are irresistible . The best one is when he comes in dressing up in father Christmas and singing on a Tino Rossi record so as to make children laugh and steal their dreams but his ugly face is sufficient enough to make them cry . Even if this fairy tale isn't completely accomplished , Jeunet's fans will have a wonderful time .
The diary of a ladykiller .	" La Vie En Rose " , in spite of its title , has nothing to do with Edith Piaf . Released the same year as " The secret life of Walter Mitty " , it may be considered its French counterpart , but not nearly as good . Actually it was probably inspired by previous experiments of very underrated Albert Valentin : a story told by two different characters , one after the other ; first the would be womanizer ( a supervisor in a secondary school ) , then one of the students . The trick was already used in Valentin's " La Vie De Plaisir " , with superior results . Main interest lies in the actors ' performances , Louis Salou and François Périer . Nothing extraordinary in Jeanson's lines , but the diary is a good idea . Like this ? try these . . . . . . " Le Petit Chose " Maurice Cloche , 1938 " Les Belles De Nuit " René Clair , 1952 .
Orphans of the storm talkie	That was the story which DW Griffith had already transferred to the screen in the silent era . The great American director transposed Adolphe d'Ennery's tear-jerker , one of the many melodramas which thrived in the French nineteenth century , during the revolution , which led the scriptwriters to staggering scenes where Danton himself saved the heroine from the guillotine . Maurice TOurneur ( Jack's father ) was more faithful to the original novel . His movie compares favorably to Griffith's , but Renée Saint-Cyr does not equal Lilian Gish though . The orgy is at least as impressive ( and as risqué for the time ) as in the silent work . Best part comes from Yvette GUilbert , the hateful shrew , La Frochard , who forces poor blind Louise to beg in the street . Tourneur ' s directing and pictures are better than the incredible story which accumulates the coincidences all along Henriette's and Louise's martyrdom : La Frochard rocking her dead son ( a giant ) , Louise teaching André to pray in a church , and the ( female ) prisoners leaving for the colonies are scenes which can still grab today's audience , provided that they love melodramas of course .
The hunchback	A new version in the late nineties was released featuring Daniel Auteuil as the hero ; it was entertaining but the actor was overshadowed by Lucchini's portrayal of the wicked cousin . In the 1960 version , , there's not such a problem . Jean Marais was par excellence the swashbuckler hero and , like in " le capitan " , Bourvil provides the movie with good comic reliefs . Marais is as convincing playing a dashing knight , fighting for a girl's name and fortune as he is pretending he is a hunchback . André Hunebelle , often despised by the intellectuals made entertaining stuff which today's children ( and their parents ) can still enjoy .
ready for anything to be successful ?	Either it is in France , Great-Britain or in the USA , nearly every big actor felt one day or another to take a turn behind the camera to show their potential as a director . Guillaume Canet , a young charismatic actor added his name to this list which keeps on extending . With " mon idole " ( 2002 ) , his first long feature movie is strongly rooted in the contemporary reality with the following topics : the hypnotic power of television on the public and the relations of manipulation . However , this exercise of style leaves a bitter taste in the mouth after the vision even if the result is far from being uninteresting . Do you remember professor Castro's leitmotiv in Alejandro Amenabar's thriller " Tesis " ( 1996 ) ( We must give the public what he demands . . . ) . The professor thought of the violence . Today , the public wants not only violence but also daring TV shows pushed to the voyeurism . The satire is well here at the beginning of the movie during the TV show . Moreover , later the film contains a significant detail : Jean Louis Broustal breeds vultures . The metaphor is obvious . Nowadays , TV shows , especially TV reality occupy an enormous place in our lives and it can be source of wealth and respectability for the ones who run them . Besides , Canet seizes the opportunity to deride them . The sequence when Broustal , his wife and a friend of them are dancing in the living-room dressed in silly costumes constitutes a good example . It wouldn't be fair to call Broustal's wife a grown-up because she is still a child deep inside her . As for Broustal , all in all he is an eternal pampered child who only thinks of having fun . Now to come back to the starting point , Bastien ( Guillaume Canet is an ambitious young man who would like to climb the ladder in television . He has a project for the telly and he presents it to his manager Jean Louis Broustal ( François Berléand ) . It is useful to add that Bastien is widely impressed by this apparently serious man . Broustal is interested by Bastien's plan and decides to invite him in his country house in the country for the week-end . But Bastien is going to find out that his real motivations are drastically different from Broustal's . It is quite easy to guess Canet's major inspirations . His movie finds itself half-way between " Masques " ( 1987 ) by Claude Chabrol for the setting , the first part of the story , the food and the cinema of the Coen brothers for the caustic tone . There are also strong echoes of " une étrange affaire " ( 1981 ) by Pierre Granier-Deferre . Canet seems to be film-loving to the core . He has also had intuition for the cast . Having hired François Berléand , a largely underrated French actor with a rich filmography was a good idea . Furthermore , him and Canet are well followed by the rest of the cast . The satire is quite fierce , the situations are comical , the actors feel visibly at ease in their respective roles . So , what is wrong with " mon idole " ? Well , first Canet's opus appears a little hesitating because it wavers between comedy , drama and detective movie and as a consequence the young director has difficulty to find a unity and a lasting tone . Actually , the first part of the movie is the most successful . Gradually , we feel the suspense rising and Broustal's real intentions are taking shape . Roughly , we discover that Canet offers us a farce . Problem : it happens in the middle of the film and has strong chances to run out of steam quite quickly . So in order to restart the interest of the spectator , Canet tries his hand at black humor ( the moment when Broustal's wife is involuntarily killing Broustal's friend ) and it is where the movie goes awry . In a way , the young director artificially furnished the second part of the movie and it involves a lack of cohesion to the whole . As a result , Canet wanders from his subject and his movie has difficulty to hold water . What can we say about his making ? It alternates the best and the worst . There's a careful work on light and the scenery but Canet doesn't avoid the flashy effects like to prove his master of making . But if there's a thing in the film that is spoiled , it is the music . About it , " mon idole " has a common feature with Cameron Crowe's movie " Vanilla Sky " ( 2001 ) : both present a badly used and sometimes too intrusive music . Maybe Canet's work is worse because a few songs in it by the feelings they bring out haven't got their place in a story like this one . At the end of the movie we hear " Abraham , Martin and John " ! What did Canet think of when he wrote this sequence ? That's a real disgrace from Canet . Let's also regret a somewhat unsuccessful end because Canet couldn't use a thing that could have kicked the bull's eye : immorality . So , " mon idole " is an interesting but heterogeneous work which could have been much better . It's a shame for Guillaume Canet . But if he wants to shot a second movie maybe will he correct his mistakes .
Gabin's best in the seventies	In France , in the first half of the seventies , the rural thriller was trendy , hip . There was " La Veuve Couderc " " La Horse " ( featuring Gabin , which , though it is pure fiction , looks like " l'Affaire Dominici " ) " Les Granges Brûlées " . . . Their granddaddy was Becker's unsurpassed classic " Goupi Mains Rouges " ( 1943 ) which already depicted the clannishness of some people of the rural society . " L'Affaire Dominici " is a different matter , for it is based on true facts . Three English tourists ( a lord's family ) are murdered on a country road . The suspects are the Dominici family , whose farm was near the tragedy , and whose patriarch ( Gabin ) shows himself inflexible . The Dominici family seems to come from another world , from another time . They always contradict themselves ( the audience does not know if they protect themselves or if they wash their dirty linen in public ) . Gabin gives an impressive disturbing performance , but Victor Lanoux is equally good as his son . There's also a young Gerard Depardieu as a half-wit nephew who's got three or four lines to say . The Dominici affair remains a mystery . But there are other strange things that do not even concern them : why for instance , do those wealthy tourists have to sleep by the roadside ? Directing is average made-for-TV quality but the whole cast makes the movie a minor winner .
Fall from grace . .	There are movies which are absorbing just because there are actors who are able to transcend an academic directing : Sigourney Weaver is part of them , and she gets fine support from the whole cast ( with the eventual exceptions of the two lawyers , two cardboard characters , and some of the jail inmates ) . " Crime and punishment " would be another apt title for " map " : that's the book the heroine claims ( along with Laura Ingalls Wilder's " little house " , a return to childhood's kingdom , " Walnut Grove " being another world like the one she drew on her map ) when she's in jail . Sigourney Weaver portrays a woman with a strong guilty feeling because of two events in her life ( one minor with a pupil , another one , quite tragic ) . When she's unfairly charged with abuse , she accepts the punishment . When she's in jail , she's beaming , and nobody really understands her . More , she still thinks it's not enough ( the self-inflicted wounds are revealing ) . It takes all Weaver's talent to make this complex character credible . Moore's evolution makes sense as well . She too feels guilty and her behavior does not shock . " Map " tells a story which concerns us all : Its core is responsibility . Recommended .
All promises - relatively - fulfilled .	Based on novelist Romain Gary's biography , this is a good film by Jules Dassin . Melina Mercouri may ham it up , but here with good results for her character of a Jewish mom is really convincing , and it's the main asset of Dassin's work . The director was succumbing to the vices of European cinema of the era : the slow motion sequences , which were very trendy then are almost unbearable today . Romain is played by no less than three different actors : Didier Haudepin ( Romain at 15 ) was famous for his sensational part of the young boy of " les Amitiés Particulières " and Assi ( aka Assaf ) Dayan ( Romain at 25 ) played opposite Anjelica Huston in the latter's father's " A walk with love and death " released the same year . Through the pleasure and the pain , through the years she came and went . . . Portrait of a mother . This is probably my favorite performance by M . Mercouri .
Walking on a wire	One of the first Litvak French movies , " Cette Vieille Canaille " stars Harry Baur , who was Julien Duvivier's favorite interpret at the time . He portrays an old wealthy man , in love with a woman much younger than he is . His rival is an acrobat ( Pierre Blanchar ) . Realizing his wife is only with him for the money , he urges her to go with his younger partner . The best scenes are to be found at the end , particularly those in the theater where Blanchar and his pal perform somersaults . The operation is also a goo moment , with a good use of superimposed pictures . However Litvak's following films " Coeur de Lilas " " L'Equipage " and " Mayerling " were improvements on this one which has remained watchable for Baur's performance . Like this ? try this " La Foire Aux Chimères " Pierre Chenal 1945
super tramps . . .	Michel Berthier has been an executive in a mattress firm for ten years . One day , he's learning that he is fired . He doesn't want to reveal it to his wife Juliette and tries to artificially his life . But within a few weeks , things happen quickly : he is thrown out from his home by his wife and finds himself out on the street . It's there that he meets a bunch of homeless people who support him by their friendship . They live by begging , tricks and petty thefts . For his fourth passage behind the camera , Gérard Jugnot decided to look into one of the biggest dramas of our time : the increase of the new poor and the homeless . For this , it is virtually certain that Frank Capra's cinema was his main source of inspiration . The studied topic and the treatment that is made of it warn the spectator that we are not on an original land ( a dramatic topic treated on a comedy tone ) . However , Jugnot found the balance in his screenplay to alternate moments of tenderness , emotion and hoots of laughter . It is a shame that vulgarity and easiness often spoil the pleasure we take to watch this film . Where Jugnot appears interesting is in the way he perceives these new poor who live hand to mouth . His outcasts are more generous than embittered , friendlier than revolted . They are especially linked by values which Western society doesn't seem to know any more : solidarity , trust and fidelity . Without them , it is impossible to manage all alone . The best proof of it can be found at the end of the film . Indeed , Michel's friends help him to reconquer the heart of his wife . Eventually , the performance of the actors is widely sufficient to justify the view of Jugnot's opus , especially Richard Borhinger's .
This movie is OK but I expected better	Like " American Beauty " , like " le fabuleux destin d'Amélie Poulain " I think " Rushmore " ranks among the most overrated movies of these last years . But , unlike the two quoted movies , this movie rather pleased me although I don't regard it as a masterpiece . I thought that some sides of the screenplay were inconsistent . Jason Schwartzman plays a student who's got a very active imagination : he fancies himself as a great man of the theater and the founder of several fanciful associations . However , he's a hopeless and poor student . As far as I'm concerned , I think he should be a brilliant student but it's not the case . So this side of the screenplay doesn't work . Nevertheless , the movie is especially worth for its clever dialogs and for its dazzling performance ; beginning with Jason Schwartzman , outstanding in the main role and behind his big glasses and Bill Murray , entertaining in his role of weary millionaire . Another positive side : Wes Anderson introduced a slight , discreet humor that is never vulgar , unlike plenty of American comedies ( American Pie , There's something about Mary ) . At the end , a good time but not a masterpiece .
What about Ellery Queen ?	All comments bar one are very negative , no one mentions writer Ellery Queen , those two cousins who gave some of the best murder mysteries of the twentieth century . Theirs is the metaphysical detective story ( Borges admired Ellery Queen ) , theirs is the unexpected final clue , theirs is the " nursery chryme " dear to Agatha Christie . Some of their novels are on a level with " And then there were none " . All Ellery Queen novels feature Ellery Queen himself as the detective . Here he is replaced by Michel Piccoli's character , Paul Régis , which is not a big problem . But the problem lies in the fact that most of the viewers did not recognize " their " Claude Chabrol . If they knew his numerous works , they'd realize that only a dozen ( roughly , the 1959-1961 , the 1967-73 golden era and some scattered later films ( l'enfer , la ceremonie ) are really Chabrolesque , that is to say detective plot-with - bourgeois background-and ominous atmosphere . There are plenty of bizarre oeuvres in such a huge filmography ( a lot of movies should never have been made ; Clouzot , who easily artistically surpasses him only made 11 movies , only one of which is mediocre ) . Actually " decade " took the eerie elements of " la rupture " ( 1970 ) and tightened them up . But whereas " La rupture " had a chabrolesque atmosphere and the usual suspects ( Stephane Audran , Michel Bouquet ) , " Decade " features actors Chabrol had not used before ( and to my knowledge never would ) . Coming after " juste avant la Nuit " , " decade " could only be slagged off when it was released . Today , I must confess that it's not that much bad and compared with recent fiascos such as " la Fleur du Mal " or " au Coeur du Mensonge " or " rien ne va plus " or . . . . ( the list is endless ) it retains some originality . I can easily comprehend that people who do not know E . Queen ' s world could be infuriated by this Punch and Judy style , but Chabrol faithfully transferred the writer's atmosphere to the screen : the gigantic metaphysical metaphor , a nervous Anthony Perkins - a good choice - , a enough is enough Orson Welles-who else ? - , God himself . Do not get me wrong : " decade " is no masterpiece but it is a curious offbeat work , sometimes clumsy ( Chabrol felt compelled to " explain " the last scenes for fear his audience may not have understood ) , sometimes brilliant ( the little girl in the train reciting the ten commandments ) . " Decade " verges on fantastic and predates another non-Chabrolesque intriguing flick " Alice ou la dernière fugue " . I have a warm spot in my heart for these two despised films . " Decade " : a failed success or a successful failure ? And if you hate it ( such is the case with many users ) it's better than to be unconcerned about it .
some upsetting battle sequences for a plain story	War movies have often been one of Steven Spielberg ' specialities . This one achieved a huge public and critic success . What drew the attention in this war movie are fight sequences . They're extremely violent and bloody . We have been rarely so far in the reality of fights . It's difficult to forget the first half an hour of the movie during the Normandy landings . Spielberg's sober and showy directing increases the phenomenon . However , you must admit it , the movie is based on a trite , plain even conventional story . You could use this last word to describe the famous Ryan soldier . Indeed , he's told that he can go home because all his brothers have been killed . Instead , he wants to keep on fighting . Apart from this and in spite of a few weaknesses , " saving private Ryan " is a thrilling war movie .
a typical Francis Veber product	In the delicious " le Dîner De Cons " ( 1998 ) by the same director Francis Veber , Pierre Brochant ( Thierry Lhermitte ) says to his doctor on a dogged tone : " I've got a damn fool of world class tonight ! . . . " . The viewer who discovers " Tais-toi ! " for the very first time could attribute as well this opinion to Quentin from Montargis ( Gérard Depardieu ) in this film . The IQ of this character is so low that the wardens in prisons and the male nurses in psychiatric hospitals can't stand him until one day , he makes the acquaintance of a taciturn inmate Ruby ( Jean Reno ) and thinks he's his friend because unlike all the ones Thomas met in his life , Ruby never tells him to shut up . The two men escape in a preposterous way and are soon tracked down by the police and the underworld . . . For many French viewers , Francis Veber is the guarantee of a quality entertaining movie . Throughout the years this respectable scenarist gained a large reputation thanks to a recognizable comic recipe : the mismatched duo of men . Two men with a very different disposition who have to be and to face together unexpected situations . This formula gave laugh-filled works like " la Chèvre " ( 1981 ) , " les Fugitifs " ( 1986 ) when it wasn't pure genius with " le Dîner De Cons " I mentioned earlier . With " Tais-Toi ! " , he remains faithful to his cinematographic writing and coming after the dismaying " le Placard " ( 2001 ) , it is a few notches above his precedent work . Of course , it never reaches the pinnacle of " le Dîner De Cons " but the Veber touch can be felt here and there . This man is a mastermind when it comes to depict the persona of his duo of men between the grouchy , ominous Ruby and his partner , the silly , simple-minded Quentin or to put verbal wit in hilarious dialogs . And it would be hard to resist taut , droll moments . If the 2003 vintage is more palatable than the 2001 one , that doesn't make a great film for all that . Apart from indisputable assets , Veber's scenario is plagued by a humdrum imagination and a lackluster directing to weave an immaculate story for our maladjusted duo of men . Most of the film consists in a chase with fights , shooting and stunts a little lazily filmed during which the director doesn't appear to be at ease in spite of the fantastic steps his tandem goes through . What also hampers the venture is its ultra-mapped direction and a patchy direction of actors . It would be hard to resist the blissful ignorant Gérard Depardieu but Jean Reno is a more debatable choice for he's unable to shade his acting even if Veber wrote him some witty lines . I would be tempted to write that this film showcases Veber's strong points and his limits . When he stays confined to the grounds of comedy , Francis Veber is in his element . But when he tries to make a foray into other cinema territories or to incorporate his comical gifts in it , laughter are too scattered even rare . Even if " Tais-toi ! " isn't to be hammered , it will be soon forgotten after the screening .
Poor Howard Buten . . . .	This film is obviously an adaptation from Howard Buten's novel . I read it when I was about 12 and I wanted to see the film because I didn't understand numerous points in the novel ( by the time I read it , I was told that it was a difficult book and now I agree with that ) . Concerning this screen adaptation , on the whole it isn't very successful . The film is , however , faithful to the novel but it lacks dynamism , punch ( especially the performances of Patrick Bouchitey and Hippolyte Girardot ) and even originality in its making . It would have been interesting to film Gil's past before his " accident " in black and white as it was the case with " American History X " in another register . Moreover , the movie is dull and more softened than the novel , especially during Gil's fits of anger in the doctor Nevele's office . Nevertheless Dimitri Rougeul is quite convincing in his role of dreamy and capricious child even if his visions appear brutally . There's also another positive side : the music which is quite beautiful when it's played on the piano . To finish , this movie is a dull adaptation of Buten's novel and because it's a French movie , it would be interesting to see the own vision of the novel with an American director . Maybe , he'd feel more at ease because it's an American novel .
Nous vaincrons . ( We shall overcome )	" Un pur moment de rock and roll " , the title , is a misnomer . It is not about rock and roll unless this music equals drugs and nothing else . The first part deals with the daily life of a handful of junkies , one of them suffering from aids , their ceaseless fight to get their dose , their thefts and their hopes ( if there are any ) . The strongest scene might be the one with the judge ( a woman ) who gives the main character a last chance . Thus , the second part takes place in a detox mansion where Fedor Atkine helps the doomed youth to get by through work and of course group therapy and sport . Perhaps , some sunlight does break through on this film , which is very rare in the work revolving around junkies . Symbolism , in the last scene , is too ponderous for what is finally an intimate story , but the rest of the movie avoids pathos and sensationalism . Two nightmare scenes shot in black and white .
Gina as Lina	Lollobrigida is a feast for the eye , but the screenplay leaves something to be desired . The movie is in turn : - a biography of a prima donna at the dawn of the twentieth century . Or to be precise a biographical novel . A long and winding road where Lina learns that the way to the top might go through men's beds . - a musical . - a comedy : when she pays a visit to her sick mother at the hospital , she sees a priest come out of her bedroom ; Gina fights a duel ( you read well ) with a rival . - a romantic melodrama : Lina / Gina has a love affair with a nephew of czar Nicolas II who appears in the flesh with wife Alexandra . - a whodunit ! During a performance of " la Tosca " a murder is committed , and for Lina , the handsome nephew ( see above ) , played by Vittorio Gassman , is a suspect . You've got five movies for the price of one . And anyway Lollobrigida is so many women . .
the individual is the amount of the personalities he has	It's the second effort from René Manzor I watch after " le Passage " ( 1986 ) which was a turkey and this one is several notches above at the level of quality . If you were fond of the linear but absorbing " Primal Fear " ( 1996 ) and the stylish " Fight Club " ( 1999 ) , then , " Dédales " may appeal you . It is an offbeat crossing between the two quoted flicks and you will be able to make the rapprochement between them only at the end of the film which contains an " de Rigueur " unexpected twist and because " c'est à la mode " . That said , the expressions I used to describe it are not to be meant pejoratively . Yes , it's highly far-fetched and hardly credible but it ends a captivating thriller with a scenario . Manzor had the neat idea to incorporate the legend of the Minotaur as a basis for the starting point and the evolution of his story . Evolving on two ways : a few days before the arresting of Claude when a gloomy , young inspector ( Frédéric Diefenthal ) investigates about a series of murders committed by a serial killer and a few months after in a psychiatric hospital when doctor Brennac ( Lambert Wilson ) has to study a patient , Claude ( Sylvie Testud ) who suffers from schizophrenia and shelters multiple personalities , Manzor creates a sticky atmosphere for the former and a sultry one in the latter . He also served his film with a sharp editing and several sequences , especially the end will leave you on the edge of your seat . There's a good cast : Lambert Wilson is excellent , Sylvie Testud , one of the luminaries in the contemporary French cinema confirms if it was necessary the full extent of her acting skills . Michel Duchaussoy provides a palatable secondary role and Frédéric Diefenthal , unrecognizable with his disheveled hair and beard shows he can be a good actor apart from the " Taxi " saga . The movie was broadcast late at night on the sixth French channel a week ago . They're usually duds which are broadcast at this hour of night but here it was a bit unfair to shelve it this way !
. . . Cause I was raised on robbery . . .	Nicolas Gessner's debut was a pleasant comedy where contentment reigned . A sweet dreamer ( Claude Rich ) who works in a Swiss bank in Geneva wants to become rich , but as he was not raised on robbery , like gorgeous Bettina ( Jean Seberg ) whose mother is the brains of a gang , he's got a good idea : let the others do the job , and latch on to the loot afterward . There are plenty of funny lines : " if we do not respect the anonymous accounts , all that will be left for Switzerland will be winter sports , the clocks and Gruyère cheese " or " You know there was a break-in and you policemen arrive by bike ! " . The jeweler to the insurance agent : " I'm glad I sold all those jewels " " But you didn't sell'em ! they were stolen ! " It comes to the same thing , as long as someone pays ! " Filmed on location in Geneva , Nicolas Gessner , abetted by a good cast , does a nice job . Later , he would direct Charles Bronson and Anthony Perkins ( " Quelqu'un Derrière La Porte " ) and Jodie Foster and Martin Sheen ( " the little girl who lived down the lane " ) . Like this ? try these . . . . . " La Bonne Année " Claude Lelouch , 1974 " Faut Pas Prendre Les Enfants Du Bon Dieu Pour Des Canards Sauvages " Michel Audiard , 1968
Not so terrible .	Only one comment and a very negative one . It's not that much bad . It will never be a horror classic but it's original , it has a screenplay ( 95 % of horror movies rely on special effects today ) , and two very good leads : Anny Duperey - some users will remember she was Al Pacino's co-star in " Bobby Deerfield " - is a very attractive woman who never had on the silver screen the parts she deserved and had to content herself with mediocre telly series . She plays a doctor who arrives on an island to be confronted with mystery and a disturbing colleague , doctor Marshall ( Jean-Claude Brialy , whose mischievous performance verges on camp ) . Domestic appliances go crazy and people are disfigured , maimed , burned , you name it . And they are unplugged at that ! Leroi creates fear in the kitchens and I'm not sure that , after watching " le demon dans l'ile " , you will use a razor , a stove , a coffee-maker and even a glass without a reservation . One can deplore the ending , which is borrowed from De Palma's " Carrie " . But all that remains is entertaining , and Duperey displays resilience and authority all along the way .
not the masterwork it is supposed to be	Alain Corneau is part of the fixture in French cinema and delivered highly estimable pieces of work throughout his career . Hence the diversity of the genres he explored either it is the adventure film with " Nocturne Indien " ( 1989 ) , probably his finest hour or the detective film with " Police Python 357 " ( 1976 ) or " la Menace " ( 1977 ) . Nominated for the Golden Palm in Cannes in 1979 and for several French Ocsars the following year , " Série Noire " is generally regarded as the filmmaker's peak as far as detective film is concerned . I don't share this enthusiasm at all . True , Corneau hired the services of two of the greatest Actors , France has ever had : Patrick Dewaere and Bernard Blier shine in their respective acting and one can't say who is the grimmest of the two . They evolve in dreary scenery rightly enhanced by a somber cinematography to confer the film a depressing atmosphere . Corneau shot his film on a shoestring budget and a reduced crew to better involve emotionally the audience . However , I'm not convinced at all by Dewaere's downward spiral who contemplates to steal the old lady's loot . Corneau doesn't leave enough clues likely to shed his demeanor and his motivations to do it . Then , if Corneau wished to highlight his tragical fate , he partly failed . The fact that Dewaere is trapped in a vicious circle because he is a victim of fatality leaves me deeply unimpressed . Mainly because once again Corneau doesn't make it obvious on the screen . And I found Marie Trintignant's lifeless acting more irritating than gripping . So what remains are indisputable assets such as the acting and the choice of scenery but that's all . Definitely not the Corneau to which I would return .
losing my religion . . .	Making a movie that aims at laughing at religion is in itself a delicate operation but Kevin Smith managed to get out very well of this deadlock . His weird but funny movie is based on a plain and simple story . But " Dogma " is especially a movie that mocks at religion and its prejudice . It suggests a zany and blasphemous picture : thus God is a young woman ( an unexpected Alanis Morrisette ) , thus prophets smoke a lot of grass and masturbate a lot , thus Jesus was actually black . " Dogma " also enjoys an outstanding performance . The only fault of the movie is that it's very talkative . Nevertheless , no matter if you're a believer or you aren't , Kevin Smith's movie remains a success .
Never marry a railroad man .	Among Christian-Jaque huge filmography there is an appreciable amount of works where the director pays a tribute to great men : " La Symphonie Fantastique " ( Hector Berlioz ) , " D'Homme à Hommes " ( the Red Cross ) " Destinées " ( 3rd sketch : Lysistrata invents " make love not war " years B . C . ) " Si Tous Les Gars Du Monde " ( international solidarity ) . His last work was a documentary about his peer Marcel Carné ( Carné , L'Homme à la Caméra ) . " Les pirates Du rail " is his first ( lines warn the audience ) attempt in that direction , and if it's not always successful , blame it on a desultory script . At the time , writer Hergé did a much better job about China in his comic strip " Tintin : The Blue Lotus " . One should add he was helped by a Chinese student who knew what he was talking about . The story revolves around the building of a railroad track across China , this country where " they kill our priests and burn down our missions " ( Simone Renant's words ) . Charles Vanel portrays the big boss , who would resist till death , if those " trainjackers " tried to destroy this way to civilization . There are good sequences : the train coming into the station , full of dead bodies ; Suzy Prim becoming mad ; Simone Renant entering the governor's office and realizing he is dead . . But there is drivel too : how could you believe that Erich Von Stroheim , made up as an Asiatic , studied at West Point and wants to take over the dead governor's duties ? It's a fairly good adventures movie , but do not expect too much .
the bakers stripped bare ?	One negative comment for this little comedy of manners , it's a little unfair . I would tend to be more generous towards Franck Landron's effort which has the merit to bring to the light of day a social phenomenon rarely explored in cinema : naturist communities . I agree with the precedent viewer who deemed the end of the film underwhelming because unexplained . Alacrity seemed to be prevailing in the director's mind when he shot these ambiguous ending sequences . What do Olivier ( Alexandre Brasseur ) and Sophie ( Barbara Schulz ) really think about ? Are they ready to settle down in the camp or do they want to abscond and go back to their humdrum daily life in Paris ? While I'm on the drawbacks , it will also certainly be easy to fault on certain derivative points of the story . We learn that Olivier purchased this house because he didn't want to spend his holidays at Sophie's mother's . Could there be a stormy relationship between him and her ? Then , the values of this close-knit naturist community make the film a little outdated and falsely modern because it harks back to the hippie culture which used to laud a return to nature and the basic pleasures of life , notably free sex . But Landron's effort shouldn't be dismissed all the same . The title of the film designates the people who wear clothes in a nudist camp and so Sophie and her children are them . Her wary demeanor makes sense : in a society so much concerned with fashions in clothing and sense of decency , how many people would be ready to take their clothes off and to follow the rules and manners of a nudist community ? It is highly likely that many people including me and you would react like her . " Les Textiles " is a call for tolerance , integration about the right to live naked in an isolated community . There's nothing crass in Franck Landron's treatment of nudism and he films without complacency and a certain neutrality , Sophie's stay on the island among its naked inhabitants . Comical sequences are efficiently subdued . " Get your clothes off ! " says some inhabitants to Sophie . It is also to his credit to have reduced the danger of some traps which seemed inevitable like a latent voyeurism and he plays on evocative colors between bright ones during the day and dark ones in the evening . A special cinematography gives the film an almost documentary style . Don't be fooled by the low rating and give this social comedy a go .
back street is over	This is a love triangle but it's not the melodrama of the thirties where the abandoned woman had to die alone ( " Back Street " ) or to become a businesswoman ( " Imitation of life " ) or to do both ( " Only yesterday " ) . Now the mistress has a good job and she does not want to renege on love . that said , the story is derivative and it is too bad that the Andrews / daughter relationship should only be skimmed over , and that the part of his wife should be so underwritten . The three leads , Joan Crawford , Henry Fonda and the always reliable Dana Andrews make the film , if not a winner , at least something watchable . It is not to be ranked among the great Preminger's works though .
A melodrama : it has its moments	To try to find some of the seeds which produced Renoir's masterpieces of the thirties is splitting hairs . All we can say is that it shows Renoir's taste for nature , rivers , country landscapes . The heroine called Gudule ( the name has become completely ludicrous in today's France ; no one is called Gudule anymore ) is played by Renoir's favorite actress of the silent era , Catherine Hessling . Her fate is worthy of Hugo's " les miserables " : mistreated by a wicked lecherous uncle , taken in by a poacher and his mum , left in the cold and the rain . . . And finally she finds love : a nice young man falls for her and marries her . His background is very bourgeois , but the parents do not seem to bother . That is to say we are far from " Boudu Sauvé des Eaux " , " La Chienne " and even " Une Partie de Campagne " . Best moment : the heroine's nightmare ; people who know well Renoir's silent era will notice the similarities between this sequence and that of " La Petite Fille aux Allumettes " where the little match girl and her attentive escort go for a horse ride in the sky . The comparison stops here for " La Fille de l'Eau ' is very inferior to the Andersen adaptation . Actually the main influence is DW Griffith but then again Hessling is notLilian Gish . For Renoir's fans . The others might find it a bit obsolete .
Up above the sky so high . . . . .	" Supernova " is a film which cannot easily be categorized . A psychological drama ? A spoof on politicians ? A sci-fi journey ? A walk in the dead's kingdom ? Probably all this and more . A politician wants to commit suicide but he renounces and on her way back home he is hurt by a meteorite . Bedridden in a gloomy hospital , he is in a coma . People come to visit him : his wife , his son who hates him , a mysterious woman , Gloria , whom he mistakes sometimes for his late daughter Sandra . He leaves the hospital and takes refuge in his folks ' old farm , an old building near decay . The others urge him to come back to Paris for it seems he is a VIP in politics . But all this might only be visions of a dying . Gloria to the son : " He is miserable because he cannot share his experiment in the great beyond with nobody . " " Supernova " is not an easy film to watch . Thoroughly unspectacular , with a lead actor whose performance could be described as " Jean Gabin on Tranxene " , and devoid of any complacency , it is one of the weirdest French efforts of the last ten years . Like this ? Try these : Simple mortel Pierre Jolivet 1991 Jacob's ladder Adrian Lyne 1991
look where rash lying can lead you	The title of Pierre Salvadori's third effort is the second part of a French expression concerning lies . In English , one would translate as " he's a compulsive liar " . The chief subject of " Comme Elle Respire " partly revolves around the art of lying and this characteristic will also be prevailing in " Après Vous " ( 2003 ) , perhaps Salvadori's finest hour . Jeanne ( Marie Trintignant ) has the gift of telling extravagant stories about herself . But at the very beginning of the film , little did she know that due to this dangerous habit she would find herself in the heart of an abduction organized by a wretched gangster , Antoine ( Guillaume Depardieu ) and his two sidekicks , Barnabé ( Serge Riaboukine ) and Marcel ( Jean-François Stévenin ) to demand a ransom to her parents . Circumstances and her tendency to tell false tales led her to pretend to come from a rich family to an old lady but as we say : " walls have ears " . Her parents actually come from a modest background and to complicate things a little , Antoine falls in love with Jeanne . Pierre Salvadori kept some strong points of his first film " Cible Emouvante " ( 1993 ) which made it enjoyable . Like in his 1993 film , " Comme Elle Respire " has potent delineations of the characters which give the movie substance . Then , Salvadori films Jeanne's adventures on a communicative effervescent style with hilarious , preposterous moments . A sense of unpredictable in the development and the construction of the story gives it a fresh , original tonality . This is reinforced by the fact that Salavdori's effort is straddling two genres : detective comedy and sentimental film . . . . . . and this is where the film shows some glitches . As it constantly fluctuates between these two poles , it unbalances the whole film . The transition from comedy to drama is often a little hard to follow and the denouement is laboriously solved . The final installment in Corsica is both an asset and a disadvantage . An asset because it cements Jeanne's elusive personality and a drawback because it stretches a little too far the film towards the sentimental domain . But this honorable work shouldn't be decried all the same and the actors make it worthwhile which add to the justification of the screening of the film provided this lack of cohesion of the genres aforementioned above doesn't mind you .
These boots are made for walking	Less interesting than his two sensational thrillers ( " the Boston strangler " " 10 Rillington place " ) , " Blind terror " aka ( aptly called ) " see no evil " is nonetheless a must for suspense buffs . Located in the splendid landscapes of a green England , it's an exciting thriller , some kind of country " Wait until dark " . Mia Farrow portrays a blind girl - she is perhaps less convincing than Audrey Hepburn in that kind of part - whose family has been murdered by a psychopath whose face we never see , only his boots . SPOILERS : the difference with the great Fleischer's previous works I mention lies in the motives of the killer : why did he kill them ? Is it because of the movie he's just seen in the theater ? Is it because he is jealous of the gypsy who goes around with the girl of the mansion ? Both " Rillington " and " Boston " were absorbing depictions of a killer's mind ( and John Hurt and Tony Curtis were prodigious ) , " Blind terror " is a pure detective story . Fleischer's science of directing shines when Farrow discovers little by little the awful truth . Whereas a talentless movie maker would have depicted every murder in lavish details , he creates fear with apparently insignificant things like the broken glass . Not among Fleischer's best but worth one watch .
Woman's lib ? ? ?	Adapted from a scandalous Victor Margueritte novel , " la garçonne " - aka " jalousie " - is a movie which features three distinct parts : 1 . A bourgeois girl lives a life of luxury ( tennis ) ; her parents want her to marry for money though , because of the decline of their business . She discovers that her fiancé cheats on her , having both a lover and a child ! She decides to sever all links with her milieu and her family . This first part is not convincing , and the story is often confused . But there's an interesting Edith Piaf cameo ( credited as " la môme Piaff , with two f ) and you can hear her sing . 2 . Then there's the second part : it's by far the most interesting , because , for the time , it was rather daring . For the heroine , it's independence day , no less . She has a lot of affairs , including one with a woman , Niquette . Niquette is played by glorious Arletty ( " les enfants du paradis " ) who is as excellent as ever ; her blonde lesbian ( Arletty was actually a brunette ) easily outclasses the rest of the cast including the lead ( Marie Bell ) . Although the word " lesbian " is never uttered , there are really risqué scenes : one of them shows women dressed up as men dancing together ; another one takes place in an opium den . Besides , Jean Tissier's character is probably gay too . 3 . But unfortunately , the third part destroys everything . Two men tell the girl she should behave herself : then becomes a rivalry between them but the virtuous one will show the sinner the straight and narrow . Goodbye woman's lib , and hello spit and polish housewife . Jacqueline Audry would remake " la garçonne " in the fifties : her lead , Andrée Debar , a strange androgynous actress , was deemed superior to Marie Bell , but the critics - I ' ve not seen that version - generally do not think it's an improvement on the 1936 film except for color . Another made-for-TV version came later , with Marie Trintignant , whose recent tragic death was widely talked about .
Grand Hotel or the judgment of Solomon	Another Simenon's book transferred to the screen . Richard Pottier is an odd job man of the French cinema but some of his works were worthwhile : from the comedy ( " Fanfare d'amour " the remake of which was none other than " some like it hot " ) to the historical melodrama ( Caroline Chérie ) to detective stories ( les Caves du " Majestic " ) The " Majestic " is a luxury hotel where you find Scandinavians ( or false Scandinavians ) Argentinian dancers ( or false Argentinian dancers ) , Dutch old biddies looking for gigolos . A rich woman ( Suzy Prim ) is killed and Commissaire Maigret ( Albert Prejean ) investigates . It is a talky movie , essentially consisting of interminable questionings but the last quarter of the movie is more exciting when the little boy ( who's got two fathers ) becomes the center of the plot . Richard Pottier's directing is static and it's the cast who gets away with the honors and keeps us from yawning .
not one of the best thrillers made in 2002 but probably the quietest one !	Without following the fashions of the moment , without caring to know if his movie will ride high in the box-office and at the age of 72 , Clint Eastwood , one of the giants of the American cinema doesn't really intend to retire as " Blood Work " ( 2002 ) testifies . Unlike a lot of energetic and terse detective movies of these last years , the detective acted by Eastwood opted for patience and coolness which are his main characteristics : to lead his investigation , he takes all his time . So , the movie adopts a slow and nonchalant rhythm . Moreover , Eastwood didn't put much violence in his work or it is mainly showed through a TV screen ( the murders ) . If we look into the contents of the film , we realize that we have a classic detective movie in front of us . True . Brian Helgeland , the scriptwriter has written a largely jerry-built screenplay which contain the usual components of a thriller . Some of them have a highly overrated reputation . Then , the predictable sudden new developments combine with a telegraphed conclusion and the fight or shooting sequences lack dynamism . Let's also regret a convenient low-key loving affair between Eastwood and Wanda de Jesus . So boredom could settle in the spectator's mind . But fortunately , Clint Eastwood shows once again his expertise as a director and his qualities as an actor and it is sufficient enough to forget the weaknesses of the film . Moreover , by acting a perspicacious but vulnerable FBI agent who wants to solve the mystery around a series of murders while knowing his life is hanging by a thread due to his frail health , he harms his image of hard nut to crack he gave himself in " Dirty Harry " ( 1971 ) . In a way , Eastwood is still a brave actor who isn't afraid to take chances in spite of his elder age and he also brings a big human dimension to his character of aging cop . If we take a look in the cast , it's a surprise to discover Jeff Daniels casting against type . What Robin Williams tried to be in " Insomnia " ( 2002 ) by Christopher Nolan , Daniels made it : to convince us that he can easily act the character of a killer . It doesn't revolutionize the thriller , it isn't to rank among Eastwood's very finest movies but " Blood Work " is the film from a man who like Terry McCaleb refuses to see death catching him and who in spite of his age goes on with taking pleasure in making even unoriginal films . Maybe he's right because " Mystic River " ( 2003 ) met critical acclaim and made a solid commercial career . I haven't watched it yet but I can't wait to discover it .
Inside a small circle of soldiers .	Son of a French famous director ( Maurice ) , but an American citizen since 1919 when his father came to Hollywood , Jack ( Jacques ) Tourneur began his career in the land of Victor Hugo with funny comedies such as " Toto " . But he is best remembered for his thrillers ( " out of the past " ) , his adventures films ( " the flame and the arrow " ) and his fantasy and horror movies ( " cat people " , " curse of the demon " , my J . T . favourites . " Circle of danger " belongs to the " thriller " category although it's rather a whodunit detective story ; as it takes place in England , it is closer to Agatha Christie's puzzles than to American film noir . A man ( Ray Milland ) investigates his brother's death . In WW2 , he joined the English army and was killed in a raid . But the bullet that went through his head was not German . Jack Tourneur has a very special way of filming the places . It is obvious in " Curse of the demon " . Here too the places seem more important than the characters : the mines , the nice cottage in Scotland , the dancing school , the theater , and above all , the sensational use of the Scottish country in the final sequence . He makes harmless elements very strange nay scary : the awful choir , the ballet , the commander's mom . . . . There is a slight sag in the texture and tension in the second part when Tourneur focuses on the female character played by decorative Patricia Roc . Besides , when Clay talks about his kid brother , it's not enough to make acquaintance with a character who does not appear in the movie , and it is important , when you know the ending of the film . By the last thirty minutes , the movie becomes exciting again . The whistling tune is a very good trick , worthy of Alfred Hitchcock . And the final scene cannot be praised too highly : a very good suspense .
He is innocen	This is a typically eighties movie , with all the clichés around : the brilliant lawyer - of course she is a divorcée - , the handsome guy who may or may not be a cynical killer . . . and of course a long trial . The screenplay is full of holes : witnesses for the prosecution or for the defense appear and disappear much to the two lawyers ' surprise ; and of course the discovery of the final clue by Close almost as soon as she is in her lover's house . And , for a brilliant lawyer - who is responsible for a miscarriage of justice all the same ! - , it's not very smart to sleep with your client just before his trial ! And she does not seem to work very hard on her case , except for the scene when her daughter asks for some help for her homework . It takes all the talent of the actors to sustain the interest till the end . And sustain , they do , for both Glenn Close and James Bridges are excellent ( so is Peter Coyotte who makes the best of an underwritten part ) . The screenwriters display a certain sense of humor : I particularly like the lines about the hero's horses and how Glenn Close reacted during the trial . Entertaining , but not really memorable .
What lies beneath	" Le secret " was overshadowed by Robert Enrico's blockbuster " Le Vieux Fusil " released the following year . I have always thought that that movie - also featuring Noiret-was largely overrated . " Le Secret " is a different matter : it's a return to mystery , irrational , and madness , tendencies Enrico had displayed in his first ( and best ) work " Au Coeur de La Vie " ( 1963 ) . It is far from being as stunning though . It's too long . In its first part , the story drags on and on . Fifteen minutes could have been easily edited out , the story would not have suffered for it . It was the time of paranoia in political movies . In the wake of " Conversation " and " The parallax view " lots of FRench directors jumped on the bandwagon . There was Jacques Deray and " Un Papillon sur l'Epaule " ; Yves Boisset and " Espion Lève-toi " ; Jean-Claude Tramont and " Le Point de Mire " ; and Robert Enrico and " Le Secret " . All those films deal with a huge conspiracy which may or may not exist . Enrico ' s movies has good assets : his three leads are adequate ; a disturbing prologue ( and a symmetrical epilogue ) ; and characters who change : in the last third , we are not sure that Trintignant's paranoia or would be mythomania has not corrupted his " normal " companions . The military intervention complete with paratroopers and tanks is a bit too much but it adds to the offbeat atmosphere of the film and it reminds us of Enrico's anti-militarism ( already obvious in " La Belle Vie " ( 1964 ) ) . " Le Secret " is a flawed but interesting work .
Jed , Andy , Tracy and the jack of clubs .	The first thing to bear in mind is that there are ( like in Hitchcock's " family plot " , there the comparison ends ) TWO distinct plots : - The threesome Baldwin / Pullman / Kidman and the ominous plans of some of them . - And then a serial killer who hangs about the campus , in the college where Andy works . There's a very thin , very thin connection between the two stories , and it's a question of . . . well I will not write a spoiler . The screenplay is far-fetched , but has enough unexpected twists to sustain the interest till the very end ( yes , even the very last sequence contains a " revelation " ) But the real meat lies in one sequence . A bewildered Andy pays a visit to an old alcoholic shrew , played by Mrs Bancroft . Had she had a more important part , she ' d have stolen the show hands down . Every minute of this sequence is a lesson young actresses should pay attention to . Dig the way she delivers the line : " welcome to the club " . " Malice " is fun to watch , after a hard day's labor . Not much food for thought , but entertaining throughout
Nuns story	This first Bresson effort has not worn well . The director himself did not like it , and it is sure easy to see why . A non - French audience will not notice it , but the actresses here are professional , some of them were stars of the era . The great Sylvie , Renée Faure , Jany Holt were famous in France when they starred in " les Anges du Péché " . Some were to become , like Silvia Montfort , whose whining acting is in direct contrast to everything RB would do afterward . Can today's audience relate to those characters ? I have my doubts . This is an excellent documentary : a nun's life is no laughing party ( for that matter , see also Zinnemann's " a nun's story " and Alain Cavalier's " Thérese " ) . But the nun from the bourgeoisie who tries to redeem a criminal ' s soul will not convince anybody , unless he absolutely loves the director . It's little more than a Sulpician melodrama .
The continuing story of Lola .	People who know Demy's work will notice the connection between " Lola " " les parapluies de Cherbourg " and " model shop " : the first and the third feature Lola , both played by Anouk Aimée , and the first and the second one feature Roland , Lola's unfortunate lover . They will notice how Gary Lockwood , who plays the male lead in " model shop " resembles Marc Michel , the FRench actor who plays Roland . In " les parapluies de Cherbourg " , Lola is a memory , and we can hear Roland talk about her to Deneuve's mother . And , how strange , in " model shop " , Lola opens her photo album and she begins to recall people from the past , actually the characters of " lola " : Michel , the gambler whom she married , and Frankie , the marine who died in the war since . Unwarranted nohow : Lockwood's character is to leave for Vietnam very soon . . . . as Deneuve's fiancé was fighting in Algeria in " les parapluies de Cherbourg " . The phone call between Lockwood and his father reveals a lot about the late sixties zeitgeist . That said , " model shop " is not among Demy's best and might put off a lot of viewers because it's more " nouvelle vague " than any of this director's works . The first thirty minutes are sometimes boring and it's difficult to feel Demy's touch . There was something magic in the towns of Nantes and Cherbourg , which does not operate here except maybe during the cast and credits , where the American town seems terribly depressing . The characters are not as interesting as in " Lola " or " les parapluies " and sometimes seem like relics from a long gone past ( eg the hippies , Spirit pop group ) . The movie really takes off during the Aimée / lockwood scenes but they are few and far between . " Model shop " was a commercial fiasco . I remember that when it was released it only stayed one week in the movie theater where it was shown in my town . I did not see it at the time . So I had to wait 24 years to catch it on one of its very rare TV broadcastings . Afterwards , Demy made " Peau d'Ane " ( Donkey Skin ) and it was a return to former glories . I will recommend " model shop " to Demy's fans but Demy's fans only .
it's so hard to get love . . .	In the end of the twentieth Century , the teenage movie came back into vogue in the landscape of the French cinema , this movie made by Anne-Sophie Birot confirms it and reveals her own approach in the content and form about the difficult condition of being a teenager . By dividing her movie in 3 chapters , by delaying the meeting between the 2 main characters , Anne Sophie Birot takes the viewer by surprise . In the first 2 parts , the female director takes her time to draw the portrait of her 2 young interprets and to place them in their respective family circles before making them meet . Their families don't belong to the same social level but are eventually similar on one point : they're on the verge of disintegration . First , Gwen whose family background is very modest . She is lovely and by embarking on overnight love affairs , she knows her first sexual excitements . It's for her the sole way to escape from a tense familial cocoon between a lazy and alcoholic father and a mother who does her best to make ends meet . Now about Lise , the big house in which she lives makes us deduce that she belongs to an upper-class category whose climate is hardly better than to Gwen's . The death of her father plunged her whole family in bitterness and sorrow . Her mother , especially seems to break into pieces . So , to escape this dreary universe , Lise , secretly goes by coach to meet her long-time friend . . . As soon as the two friends are together for the holidays , the movie seems to go on , at first in this dreamy perspective . But bit by bit , disagreement grows , the tension that reigned in the two families has overwhelmed the two friends . As a result , there's a detachment and a distance from Lise . Anne Sophie Birot proceeds by little touches and with subtlety to let suggest the reasons of this split . Very simply , Lise is jealous of Gwen's beauty . It is the time of first teenage loves . Gwen is pretty , slender and has no trouble seducing boys whereas Lise due to her little attractive physical appearance is completely eclipsed by her friend when it comes to seduction . So , rancor , jealousy even betrayal suffer into her which lead her to nearly separation with her all time confidant and the director isn't afraid to end her work with an abrupt ending which tips it out in blackness making the viewer feel unwell . Once again , here's a movie which has the merit to show that it is not an easy thing to be in one's teenage years . Furthermore , real love seems to be omitted from the work . For example , Gwen seems to have love affairs with several boys , but it's more a means to assert herself to go away from a ponderous household . And the female director is buoyed up by her two young interprets whose roles seem to fit them like a glove . For the rest , I will retain this irregularity . According to Gwen , Lise is a brilliant student but in the beginning of the film , we learn that she failed at her GCSE . She handed in a blank sheet of paper but we don't know much about what might have explained her behavior . It would have been wiser and more consistent to make her pass her exam so as to solidify her personality and to better prepare the sequel .
Waiting for Spring	A melodrama which takes off mainly in its second part , when Sabre ( Pidgeon ) does everything to help Effie ( Janet Leigh ) , the unfortunate young girl who falls pregnantat a time it was not considered " correct " by well-meaning people . Fine depiction of everyday life and plenty of talk of the town . Angela Landsbury's and Walter Pidgeon's marriage is on the rocks . He is in love with another woman ( Deborah Kerr ) . As I wrote above , best scenes are those when Pidgeon is alone against the whole town who suspects him of having got Effie pregnant . Should appeal to people who like stuff like " Mrs Minniver " ( 1942 ) , but Wyler's work is much better though .
It's lonely in a coffin	The comparison with Melville is irrelevant . Never Melville tried to put the society on trial . His characters are puppets who have no control on their life . " The Samourai " may be , depending on whom you ask , an admirable flick , but it has no militant side . Tragedy must happen , it happens , period . Giovanni , who was once sentenced to death ( and fortunately granted a pardon ) knew what he was talking about when he expressed his disgust of death penalty . He was more André Cayatte's psychic son than he was Melville's . For the record , I must precise that the first movie dealing with death penalty is Cayatte's " Nous Sommes Tous Des Assassins " . Death penalty , even if it's not really the subject of the movie is the sword of Damocles hanging over the hero's head . Not that " Un Aller Simple " is a great film ( it is just OK ) : but it paved a reliable way for the works to come : " Deux Hommes Dans La Ville " , the ending of which is similar to that of " Un Aller Simple " makes the 1971 movie look like a blueprint . The death penalty subject comes back in future works for better ( " Mon Père " , not devoid of complacency though ) or for worse ( " Une Robe Noire POur Un Tueur " and the obnoxious " Comme un boomerang " in which we learn that Justice is hard on the Rich ) Although " Un aller Simple " is GIovanni's first film where the sinister guillotine appears ( even if we do not see it - this time - ) , it nonetheless continues the director's tradition : a solitary hero against a society where he's been an outcast for all his life . In " La Loi Du Survivant " the heroine ( not common in Giovanni's rather macho world ) is a pariah on Corsica island ; in " Le Rapace " Giovanni's sophomore effort and in many respects his most satisfying one , a soldier of fortune teaches a young idealist to lose all his illusions ; in " Dernier Domicile Connu " , a cop who broke the rules of the games successfully investigates , but it leads to death and despair ; However it's " le gitan " a relatively mediocre effort though - which epitomizes Giovanni's hero : gypsies are par excellence the outcasts of French ( ? ) society . " Un Aller Simple " is a holding-pattern work ; it does not compare favorably with Giovanni's previous works , and its plea against a barbarian custom was dwarfed by " Deux Hommes Dans la Ville " the following year . Jean-Claude Bouillon does an OK job , but he lacks charisma to be a convincing romantic gangster on the lam . He is somewhat better than his co-star pop singer Nicoletta , who fortunately enters the scene only in the last part . Another permanent feature in Giovanni's films : nothing can be done to save the hero : the sympathetic lawyer ( like the raider in love with the mysterious woman in " La Loi du Survivant " or the judge in " Deux Hommes Dans la Ville " ) does not understand the battle he is fighting is already lost .
not the worst of the trilogy and not the best	" Raiders of the lost ark " is arguably the movie that in 1981 gave back to the adventure movie its credibility around three points : exoticism , action and effectiveness . This is a movie hurried things along without any idle times and the one that established Harrison Ford's reputation , unforgettable and irreplaceable in Indiana Jones ' role . An awesome movie which the influence on the forthcoming adventure movies will be huge .
Henri Jeanson's lines . . . .	. . . . , even when he's not at his best are always better than the rest . Although it's a swashbuckler , an action-packed story , it's the kind of movie which loses much of its strength when watched dubbed . Released at the end of the swashbucklers era , whose hero was most of the time Jean Marais , " la tulipe noire " is more tongue in cheek , more picaresque , more libertine , closer to " Tom Jones " than " le bossu " or " le miracle des loups " . Christian-Jacques and Henri Jeanson wanted to match the scale and quality ( and commercial success and critical acclaim ) of their earlier and better " Fanfan la tulipe " ( 1951 ) . In both works , they take liberties with history and it's much fun : in " la tulipe noire " the characters know a priori that the 14th of July will be an important date , they talk about revolution before the storming of the Bastille ; and in the last pictures , they say people will remember the 19th ( ! ) of July . The villain ( the evil prince who comes with his army to kill all the Parisians ) about to be executed by the rebels says " I will remember my death all my life " . Alain Delon plays two parts , twins , and he's well cast as the dazzling heroes , even if Jeanson deflates them a bit . Henri Decae ' s cinematography is as splendid as ever . However the plot is sometimes confused and Philippe De Broca's " Cartouche " starring Jean-Paul Belmondo and released at the same time , is more rewarding . NB : it has almost nothing to do with Alexandre Dumas's novel , which took place in Holland where the hero was trying to create a . . . black tulip .
His last film proves the legend true .	George Cukor is an actresses director . He told himself it was nothing but an old cliché , probably as old as the hills , as old as " gone with the wind " when Leigh and De Havilland went on rehearsing with him even after he was fired . But this cliché is completely true here . Every scene where Jacqueline Bisset and Candice Bergen are together is riveting , dazzling , moving , funny all at once . but when the movie deals with Bisset's love affairs , it ' s an awful bore . Doug's scenes are watchable at a pinch because the actor has a certain presence , but the Rolling Stone guy's ones are almost unbearable , being bland , pseudo-intellectual ; this is really a lightweight performance , to put it mildly . But the two actresses work wonders when they share the screen . Two scenes highlight the movie : the first , in Malibu , where the two women spend a whole night reading Bergen's writing prowess ; the second in NYC , when they have an ultimate quarrel : Bisset tells her mate she's only one part of a woman : you easily guess which one . Of course , it's a very uneven movie and inferior to Cukor's precedent work ( " travels with my aunt " , not counting his ill-fated " the blue bird " ) but the fast forward button is useful when the movie begins to drag on .
The continuing story of Montaldo in politics	Montaldo's precedent work was about America ' s famous political prisoners Sacco and Vanzetti . Ennio Morricone's score was as excellent as usual and he asked Joan Baez to write four songs , the words of three of them were taken from letters of Vanzetti . And there was Gian Maria Volonte who like Baez was a committed artist . Montaldo continued with politics in " Giordano Bruno " . The scientist-philosopher , played by Volonte again , was a visionary man extraordinaire , so ahead of his time his thoughts seem sometimes contemporary . His world , at the beginning of the modern times only knows two concepts : good and evil ; it cannot free itself of the first conflict between God and Satan . God is not above , says Bruno , he's everywhere , in every plant , in every stone , in every grain of sand of the creation . What the Holy ( ! ) Office cannot forgive him , outside this " heresy " is that he keeps on repeating that religion helps man dominate man , all that these cardinals are doing every day ( who has the right to kill ? says Bruno ) Time had not come for science . Bruno's so called friend just wanted him to give him the power to dominate his fellow men . All that you could not understand was magic , black magic . Like Sacco and Vanzetti , Bruno was a political prisoner , a movie about him made sense after the 1971 work . And again , marvelous score by Morricone .
Cousin Cousine	" Les Liens De Sang " got chilly reviews in Chabrol's native France and the movie has sunk into oblivion . Made at a time when Chabrol was really good again ( it was made between " Alice Ou La Dernière Fugue " and " Violette Nozière " ) , after a period of barren inspiration ( 1974 / 1975 ) , you can enjoy this movie provided that you forget all that you know about Claude Chabrol . It's a pleasantly-anonymous thriller which could have been made by any director at all . Which does not mean it's bad . But if you know the fifty + Chabrol movies , you cannot hail it as his masterpiece . What you can say , though , is that it's neatly superior to his recent movies ( the last ten years were full of mediocrities ) . Donald Sutherland and Pierre Mallet are very convincing . Aude Landry's playing , on the other hand , displays nothing disturbing , nothing irrational in her behavior , which makes the ending , although praised for its " unexpected twist " , a bit artificial . Remember the characters in such works as " Le Boucher " " La Rupture " " Que la bete Meure " or even " Les Biches " Of Chabrol's world , only Stephane Audran remains : but her part is underwritten , and she is probably dubbed for I cannot recognize her voice , so it's not worth talking about it . The social background ( the director's trademark ) has completely disappeared here . As Chabrol works in a foreign country , he is incapable to depict the Canadian society whereas his métier was the ruthless portrait of French bourgeoisie . That said , you can enjoy the film : it is a good thriller if you do not think it over too much . Donald Sutherland portrays an endearing human cop .
The four seasons	Based on the opera's libretto , the screenplay suffers for it : as it is not sung , except for one song , the story is sometimes hard to follow , although it's very slow ; for instance , in the opera , Rodolfo ( Rodolphe ) sings his pain when he learns that Mimi is terminally-ill : here he tells it to his friends much to the audience's surprise ( for they hardly heard Mimi cough once before , and that's it ) . It was reportedly based on the novel which inspired the opera but the narration is not really satisfying anyway . The story is divided into four parts : the four seasons , from Spring to Winter . Spring introduces the characters : all are artists ( painters , musicians , poets . . . ) , all are bound for glory , these are the salad days , the youth . C'est La Vie de Bohême , the bohemian life . The best scene shows Mimi and Rodolphe in Les Jardins Du Luxembourg , the happiest part of their relationship . Summer brings the Revolution , probably the 1848 one , although the movie remains extremely vague for that matter . Rodolphe , the poet , is very disappointed cause nobody wants to publish his lines . Autumn ( Fall ) is the beginning of the bad days . The pals have nothing to burn in their fireplace " except themselves " . Mimi has left Rodolphe for she does not want to be a burden for him . Winter : as the snow flies , the friends celebrate Christmas ; Mimi has become a supported woman ; she's dying and she's still in love with Rodolphe . Louis Jourdan , the most handsome French actor of the era , is the stand-out ; Maria Denis who plays Mimi was nearing 30 at the time and was already too old for her part . Supporting cast includes such first-class thespians as Louis Salou and Suzy Delair . Like this ? try these . . . . . Three comrades ( Frank Borzage ) Camille ( George Cukor ) Louise ( Abel Gance )
French airmail .	Like John Ford's " airmail " and Howard Hawks ' s " Only angels have wings " , " au grand balcon " deals with the heroic pilots who struggled , suffered and often died to carry the mail . Their boss ( a deadpan and seemingly insensitive Pierre Fresnay ) wants them to consider the mail as a God . George Marchal - who was often compared with Jean Marais - portrays one of these fearless daring pilots with gusto . A versatile actor , he could play sword and sandals as well as his friend Luis Bunuel ' s much more ambitious opus ( " cela s'appelle l'aurore " " la mort en ce jardin " ) . Henry Decoin ' s directing is effective and avoids pathos whereas the numerous deaths could have turned the movie into a tear jerker . Two examples : - Marchal is lost in the snow , he wants to climb higher and higher because he knows that up there he will not be buried beneath . Thus , his body will be found and his old mom will get the insurance money . This sequence abruptly ends in a way that will surprise - and maybe disappoint - the audience . - Marchal's young protégé Didier is about to die , far from his homeland , but the pilot will have to leave the deathbed before the end . " Au grand balcon " is the name of the boarding-house where the pilots live . Halfway between document and novel , the movie achieves the feat of doing without a single love interest , which was rare at the time . That said , it's not really a true Decoin movie ; This director's forte was the film noir and he will be remembered for such works as " non coupable " or " la vérité sur Bébé Donge " . " Au grand balcon " should appeal to people who like the two movies I mention at the beginning of my comment .
Delon and Schneider back together . . .	After ten years . Their last and only movie together ( Schneider had only a cameo in " plein soleil " ) was " Christine " . That movie helped Delon become a star when his partner was famous ( the " Sissi saga " ) . But Schneider's career ran into difficulties when she tried to get rid of her image of a very nice Austrian empress . And in the late sixties , when her success was waning , Delon returned the favor , in a gentlemanly manner . He was right : Schneider soon gained critical acclaim again and became one of the biggest actresses of the seventies in France till her tragic death . We still miss her now . And Maurice Ronet too . " La piscine " is a psychological detective story . There are only four characters well portrayed by the four leads . Almost all the action takes place around a pool ( hence the title ) in the middle of a desirable villa ( I wish I could spend my vacation here ) . Tempers rise as it appears that Jean-Paul ( Delon ) is a wash-out professionally and that his guest ( Ronet ) is a show-off , and Jean-Paul's lover's ( Schneider ) ' ex - partner . It's a cat and mouse play , not always original , but where the actors can display their skills . The murder can remind people of " plein soleil " , mainly because it's the same actors .
Sci-fi is now kiddies ' world .	From " Star Wars " onwards , sci-fi became the most popular genre for a while . It as a return to simplicity , in spite of the huge special effects . Actually , the screenplay could have been written by a ten-year old , and the characters , stereotyped and Manichean , will not do any harm , will not raise intellectual dilemma . Princess Leia Organa is totally sexless and seems to come from some forgotten fairy tale . Luke is a pale shadow from a knight of the round tables without a Graal to conquer , and Han Solo is the masculine raider we've already seen in a lot of movies . Humor , like in Fredric's Brown tales ? none , unless the two robots count . Mystery , like in AC Clarke's 2001 ? none , unless Darth Vader ' s hidden identity counts ? The last quarter of the movie recalls a giant video game . After " star wars " ( and close encounters of the third kind ) , intellectual sci-fi was over the hill ; now two kinds would share the market between them : the harmless sci-fi for toddlers and brats ( Star War saga , ET , the black hole ) and the horrific , brainless and witless sci-fi ( Alien and sequels ) " 2001 " became an ET movie and its overwhelming genius did not influence anymore , alas .
Frank Villard as Wencelas Vorobeitchic . . alias Monsieur Wens . . .	Immediate background : two novels by Belgian Steeman proved highly successful : " Le Dernier des Six " by Georges Lacombe ( based on a HG Clouzot screenplay ) and " L'Assassin Habite au 21 " by Clouzot himself ( his debut ) both featured detective Wens who was not even in the latter novel . Clouzot added his then-partner Suzy Delair as exasperating singer Mila-Malou , a non-Steeman character . When asked if he would accept to portray M . Wens one more time , Pierre Fresnay reportedly replied that if he would , he would have to sign his letters " M . Wens " forever . He had felt that portraying the same character put your career in jeopardy ( like later actors such as Sean Connery ) . So a new Mr Wens : Frank Villard was not a very good choice : he was the ideal soldier of fortune , the perfect raider , but as a detective , he was too handsome . No more Mila - Malou , but the script writers introduced Arlette Pipeau , a journalist , as infuriating as the singer . The reviews were hard on the film . Cammage , the director cannot hold a candle to Clouzot , that's a fact , but how could he ? In the field of suspense , in France nobody could . Even today , I ' m still looking for a director who could make thrillers as exciting as " Les Diaboliques " " Le Salaire de la Peur " or " Quai des Orfèvres " . A Propos of " Quai des Orfèvres " ( 1947 ) : it was also a Steeman novel , but a Wensless one whose conclusion the director completely changed . " There's nothing left from Steeman's excellent novel " moaned the critics . Well it's not exactly that way . A scientist needs a guinea pig to build an " Adam " , an android whose intelligence will surpass man's - which is not a big feat anyway - . So he " rents " an American condemned man - who comes to his desirable property under a cop's watchful eye : both speak French without the slightest American accent , which is one of the biggest flaws of the film ) . In the house there live his two sons ( who hate their father ) and his daughter ( her part , which was more important in the novel , is sacrificed for the sake of the insufferable pencil pusher ) who is in love with the professor's assistant - you guess the scientist is not prepared to accept that union-who does not like his boss at all either . Death is around the corner . . . Directing is quite weak , but the story is entertaining enough to sustain interest throughout . The fourth episode of M . Wens ' investigations was made the following year with another actor and another director EG De Meyst : recently restored by the Belgian Archives , it is worth a look .
Find the river .	" The river king " is not particularly original , but it creates an atmosphere with its snowy landscapes and its frozen rivers . The entire town seems to be wrapped in mystery and to be the center of a huge conspiracy which would involve some grown-ups too : the science teacher's words sometimes recall some of " the skulls " ideology , as they deny any individualism . The movie would have been much better , had the writers concentrated on Gus's personality . The audience needs to know more about the unfortunate student . Too much time is given over to the love affair between the detective and the lit teacher ( we know since " dead poets society " that only lit teachers are nice teachers ) . And haven't we had enough of these " stories in the story " of the cop's youth , a trick which has been used a hundred times or more ?
Brotherhood of the wolves .	A remake of a silent movie of the twenties which is impossible to see nowadays , " le miracle des loups " ( the title is right : the wolves really work a miracle here ) is mainly a vehicle for Jean Marais's prowess . King of the swashbuckler genre in France in the 1955-1965 era , he was the hero of many a young French boy at the time . History is given a rough ride , but Louis the eleventh ' s - a smart Jean - Louis Barrault - and Charles Le Téméraire's - a wicked Roger Hanin fight provides the story with a good background . Jeanne de Beauvais ( Rosanna Schiaffino ) is the king's goddaughter in love with knight Marais , but alas , Le Téméraire covets her and kidnaps her . The scenes with the wolves were reportedly difficult to film ; and the overblown " pacte des loups " stole the " animal justice " ( and part of the title ) from this little entertaining unpretentious movie from the early sixties , by veteran André Hunnebelle who had already directed the first version of " le bossu " a couple of years earlier .
Programmed for your pleasure , viewer . . . .	It was obviously made to capitalize on the ( deserving ) success of " Mondwest " ( 1973 ) : Yul Brynner has a cameo in this sequel . But , although the movie borrows from other works ( notably " invasion of the body snatchers " ( 1956 , 1978 , and another remake in the nineties ) for the last sequences , it's quite entertaining . The two leads are dynamic and show a sense of humor , even if it sometimes ponderous as in the scene when the journalist tries to seduce a robot ( she thought he was a human , mind you , probably gay ) . Harry and his buddy - robot are endearing characters . Like this ? try these . . . . " Logan's run " ( Anderson , 1976 ) " Blade runner " ( Scott , 1982 )
to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich person to enter kingdom of heaven	That's what is written in the Gospel and it could be a metaphorical illustration for the tail end of the film with a surrealist odor . By her simple acting , her easily recognizable voice , Valeria Bruni-Tedeschi has become one of the most endearing actresses in the landscape of French cinema . When a viewer watches one of her films , he often keeps her in mind and so far , she followed an honorable and occasionally rough road in cinema . She was superb to François Ozon's in " 5x2 " ( 2004 ) and " Le Temps Qui Reste " ( 2005 ) and to the couple Olivier Ducastel-Jacques Martineau , " Crustacés et Coquillages " ( 2005 ) but her acting and her game sometimes played tricks on her . Claude Chabrol made a mistake by giving her the role of a woman-cop in his already mediocre " Au Coeur Du Mensonge " ( 1999 ) . Because of her high-pitched voice , she made her part ludicrous . Another setback was with " Ah ! Si j'étais Riche " ( 2002 ) because she fell into her own caricature . Well , if she was rich , she wouldn't be the happiest person in the world . It is well known , money can't buy happiness and , here in the case of Frederica , quite rightly so . She's the daughter of a rich immigrated Italian family who left Italy to settle in Paris and lives with her boyfriend , Pierre ( Jean-Hugues Anglade ) . She writes plays , has dancing lessons and has rather difficult relationships with her family , particularly her sister Bianca ( Chiara Mastroianni ) . What doesn't make things easy is that she constantly has a heavy feeling of guilt due to the wealth of her social background . Moreover , she found back a one-time lover ( Denis Podalydès ) who has a crush on her again and galvanizes her to live with him again . Soon , she's going to inherit her father's fortune and this makes her only more edgy . Her solution to relieve her strained spirit ? To confess to her priest whose trouble go beyond him . Yes , poor little rich girl Frderica struggles to find sense to her life . . . For the topic of her first directing , Valéria Bruni-Tedeschi didn't complicate the issue . She took as a source of inspiration her own memories of a childhood spent in a posh , rich world . Some aspects of the persona she developed throughout her film must have been the same she she felt once in her past life . Like a good number of beginners who have a stab at directing for the very first time , the quality of her work is uneven , spotty . It's like a patchwork of a little desultory sequences sometimes badly meshed . She moves on from one scene to another without logical link . A certain scattering brings out of the film which also could have gained by being curtailed of about half an hour and being more tightened and pithy . Some moments also smell improvisation and directing is often flabby but thanks to the degree of contribution of the actress / director in his film , the audience never loses the thread of the steps in Frederica's agitated life . Her quirky scheme evolves on two directions centered on imagination and reality to better render in images Frederica's edgy spirit . So it gives whimsical moments like the last scene with the man in the park who got Frederica pregnant but also oddball animation sequences . The best one being the first one when she tries , in her imagination to make the camel go through the eye of a needle and it's not easy ! But her vivid dreamy world is also interspersed with childhood flash-backs . All this to flee from a sultry familial atmosphere and not to think too much of such a big amount of dough . . . Valéria Bruni-Tedeschi also grabs the viewer's attention when she evokes the insurmountable frontiers between social classes . Three conspicuous sequences : the first one when she and Pierre are with an estate agent in a flat and they talk about price of the rent . Frederica : " for you , it's too much " , " for me , it's not enough . . . " . The second one takes place when they have lunch at Frederica's parents ' . Pierre , a socialist history teacher unveils his very tumultuous past before this posh world . The last scene in the queue when Pierre enumerates some " rules " of the aristocratic world which reminded me of Jean Renoir's magnum opus " la Règle Du Jeu " ( 1939 ) . Still , on the plus side , Frederica's stormy even violent relations with her bilious sister filmed in a hard-hitting way . Did Valéria Bruni-Tedeschi have similar relation in her past life ? Possible . . . But she kept a certain tenderness for her characters and there's a deadpan humor which suffuses in her work . For her first directing , she gathered a bevy of estimable thespians : Denis Podalydès who curiously is often typecast in the same genre of character as the actress / director : clumsy , bashful but always endearing , it's evident in his brother Bruno's films . Chiara Mastroianni , Lambert Wilson shine and perhaps the best of the batch : Jean-Hugues Anglade . This good cast makes up a bit for the drawbacks previously quoted . Valéria Bruni-Tedeschi's first film isn't exempted of drawbacks which are pertaining to a good pack of actors who have a stab at directing for the first time but it certainly doesn't deserve such a lowly 5 . . It commands sympathy and if she is in your straitjacket of favorite contemporary French actresses , " Il est Plus Facile Pour Un Chameau . . . " has your name on it and might appeal to you . Her career as a filmmaker rather starts under auspicious skies . She collected the Louis Delluc prize for her work , maybe would it be bad to relinquish this direction . . .
Broken wings .	France had begun its first experiments in Cinemascope : these ( still rare ) movies all dealt with historic events : there was Dreville's " LA Fayette " , Gance ' s " Austerlitz " and this one " Napoleon II : L'Aiglon " . But these works had more in common : the lead was not really a big star , even by France's standards : Michel LeRoyer as the NEW World's hero , Pierre Mondy as Napoleon the Father and Bernard Verley as Napoleon the Son . And these leads were given support by stars by the dozen ( Orson Welles was featured in the first two works ) . " L'Aiglon " was once played by Sarah Bernardt on stage . But here , it's an actor ! Bernard Verley has enough romanticism in him to succeed in his portrayal . Around him , much more celebrated actors appear in two or three scenes : Jean Marais ( during an intermission in the opera theater ) , Georges Marchal , Jean-Pierre Cassel . Josef Meinrad as Granddad and François Maistre as the mischievous Metternich play more prominent parts . Directing is not up to scratch and the love affair with Thérèse Pêche was not really one in real life : historians often wrote that " L'Aiglon " died a virgin man . And Sophie , whose part is boiled down to a walk on , was his real confidant . It's that Sophie who grew up into Sissi's mother-in-law fans of Marischka ' s trilogy know well . L'Aiglon was a prisoner . And in a prison you can't escape from cause your prison is your own family . He underwent a brainwashing : he had to forget everything from the French language to his Tuileries memories . The film was watered-down for that matter . On the other hand , Marie-Louise's obnoxious behavior is not passed over in silence . But a romantic hero such as l'Aiglon should attract a director in search of a remake : he could do much better .
Meet Joe Doe	Joe is an American blue collar , a diehard who despises niggers and fags . He could be French ( then he would loathe Arabs and fags ) or German ( then he would abhor Turks and . . . ) or . . you name it . That kind of guy needs scapegoats to escape the mediocrity of his own life . He's universal . We have all met such a fella in our life . Nowadays , you can often find them in neonazi circles . What's very interesting in Alvidsen movie is the very strange relation ship he strikes up with the bourgeois Sarandon's father . Avoiding the hackneyed blackmail cliché very smartly , the director shows us two men socially diametrically opposite who find out they have more than affinities . Such is not the posh wife's case : the chinese dinner in Joe ' s flat is maybe the most successful scene in the entire movie . All the stuff dealing with hippies is dated and full of clichés . At least , it allows us to see Sarandon at the dawn of a brilliant career . The same goes for Alvidsen , we hear . As far as I'm concerned not at all . After this imperfect but worthwhile attempt , he sank like a stone and gave works like " Rocky " , only for the sake of the buck . Artistically , his career was short-lived , but " Joe " was unique and should be remembered .
a game not like the other ones	" Jumanji " is a quite original movie which the main attraction are outstanding special effects . They're extracted from a fair screenplay that becomes a little diabolical when it shows us the rules of the game " jumanji " and when the fierce creatures appear suddenly . It's a pity that the director , Joe Johnston doesn't emphasize enough on the dramatical side of the story and on the dangerous side of the game . Moreover , he obviously meant to tell this story in a comedy tone . It's a good idea but not very well exploited . You especially laugh when the sheriff appears and when he makes blunders . He's only a decorative character who plays a minor role in the plot . It doesn't stop the movie to contain irresistible moments . At the end , this movie is a good entertainment that remains confined to a plain familial comedy .
Le voile bleu or Petain's France .	This melodrama is now dated as hell . It is a mushy movie , a tear-jerker , the French cinema at its kitschest . A woman , who's lost her husband during the war and her son , sacrifices her life to the others ' children . Gaby Morlay's nanny is Petainist moral flesh on the bone : woman was born to be a mother and to raise a family or else she's got to be a laywoman-nun . Around her , all the families are selfish , bourgeois and they do not care about their children . But this angel on earth , who takes abnegation to new limits , will suffer humiliations , scorn , indifference and ingratitude of the parents whose offspring she loves as her own flesh . SPOILERSµµµµµµSPOILERS The final with its incredible climax is guaranteed to send the impressionable tearing through an entire box of Kleenex : the poor nurse , in the hospital , is saved by one of her former little boys , now a doctor . For Xmas , the young man gathers all her " children " for a feast and he proudly announces that his old nanny will take care of HIS brats . Curtain . American remake in 1951 , by Curtis Bernardt , Jane Wyman taking on Morlay's part .
From a wreck to a human being .	The plot is far-fetched and a lot of elements might seem questionable : the whodunit , Dennis Quaid's cynical character , the umpteenth courtroom drama . . . But everything vanishes when it comes to depict the Cher / Liam Neeson relationship . Both shine , especially the latter , who , being deaf and dumb , has to express his emotions with his face . He is so good he seems to carry the weight of the world . He was once a man who had something in his life , but he was betrayed by his country when he returned from Vietnam . How a man who gave the best years of his life ( to mention a famous movie ) can be treated like a dog ( " nine dollars , it's much when you've got to survive " says his idealistic lawyer ) and end up one of the last lonely and wretched ? Every scene where they are together rings true . And " suspect " becomes the story of a redemption : physically , morally and intellectually , the homeless man regains his dignity his pride and the right to be a citizen again . There is a complex plot , dealing with politics , but it's the luminous Cher and the very moving Neeson , desperately trying to communicate , who will haunt the viewer after the movie .
Geisha blues	Although Max Ophuls ' works of that era are not highly praised ( " Werther " " Sans Lendemain " " De Mayerling A Sarajevo " ) , they nevertheless bear the stamp of the director . These are all romantic stories with doomed lovers , be they fictitious ( the two first movies ) or historic ( the latter ) . " Yoshiwara " was made in the studio and reportedly in the Japanese Garden of the Porte de Saint-Cloud in Paris ( it was first intended to be filmed in Japan ) , and the lack of means is obvious . Rather listless in its first part , this story of love between a geisha and a Russian lieutenant features at least a great scene in the second one : " the night at the opera " . There is a similar scene in " letters from an unknown woman " when the lovers pretend they are traveling on a magic train . Another equivalent is Edwige Feuillère's pilgrimage at the ski resort in " Sans Lendemain " . Like this ? Try this . . . " Sayonara " Joshua Logan 1957
The old maid	Annie Girardot was THE French actress of the seventies . An outspoken nice personality , she's cast against type as an old maid . But she's so good a thespian that she pulls it off with gusto , abetted by an excellent Philippe Noiret , himself cast as a bachelor . Both are having a vacation at the seaside in a hotel . The man tries to make friend with her but it's a hard task because Mademoiselle Bouchon ( = Miss Cork ! ! ! ) is an inhibited prudish woman . The dialog between them is intentionally down-to earth , dealing with " Oh What a lovely pebble ! " " These are souvenirs for my family " . Only once they broach sexuality and not for a long time . Noiret and Girardot were such a wonderful couple that Philippe De Broca used them again in two of his late seventies movies . But there ' s a big flaw : the supporting characters are caricatures , and although they are played by talented actors ( Michel Lonsdale , Edith Scob , Marthe Keller ) , they really get in the way . That's why " la vieille fille " is only a good movie whereas it could have been a truly great one .
the seeds	The Dardenne brothers ' devotees who admired such strong works as " Rosetta " ( 1999 ) or " le Fils " ( 2002 ) , why not giving a go to this piece of work that the two Belgian brothers created in 1992 ? But be warned , don't expect something of the same caliber or intensity like the films quoted above . As a matter of fact , although it doesn't really shelter the Dardenne brothers ' style , " Je Pense à Vous " already encapsulates a part of their trademark and what will be later developed in their forthcoming movies . First : the surroundings with the world of the underprivileged and those left behind by progress and modernity , victims of unemployment , social crisis and injustices . Then , ill-fated characters who got a raw deal and struggle hard to make ends meet and persevere their dignities . The two brothers will tap again these features for their subsequent films and will be Ken Loach's Belgian answer . Besides , maybe was it the right time for them to broach and construe this kind of cinema at a time when the respectable British filmmaker decided to put his camera in the world of the dropouts and to listen to them from " Riff-Raff " ( 1990 ) onwards . With a little help from Jean Gruault who thirty years before had collaborated with François Truffaut for the writing of his celebrated " Jules et Jim " ( 1962 ) , it's evident that the Dardenne brothers were searching for a directorial style to enable them to distinguish themselves . Their set of themes is palpable here but their style isn't . The features which will make them recognizable among others are virtually absent : no tight editing , no hand-held camera , no documentary aspect , no rare dialogs . Instead , very worked sequences which bestow the film with lyricism , an evocative music and a courageous portrait of Fabrice ( Robin Renucci ) . His job as a steel worker makes him proud but everything goes askew on the day he's dismissed from his job . As he feels pointless , he refuses a job as a photoengraver and slowly drifts , leaving his wife ( Fabienne Babe ) worried . As I said before , the Dardenne brothers ' stylish directing isn't present here but it doesn't stop the film from being eminently watchable in spite of flaws : some embarrassing ellipsis hamper the good vision of the story which accumulates stereotyped protagonists and predictable turns in the second half of the film and one can deem the ending as too cozy and easy . In the two brothers ' next films , happy-end will be shelved . But the actors make this warm-up lap worthwhile and notably Robin Renucci whom Claude Chabrol's fans saw in his excellent " Masques " ( 1987 ) . As for the Dardenne brothers , they will keep their promises from their next film onwards , " la Promesse " ( 1996 ) ! The seeds are sown , now all they have to do is to grow and ripen
Save the last dance for B .	" Voulez-vous danser avec moi " is really weird : it's not a comedy , but it looks like one sometimes , it's not a thriller , but it looks like one sometimes . It includes murder , blackmail , transvestites , a dancing school , an old " gothic " house , a dentist's office and a gay club ( " le fétiche bleu " ! ! ) . PLus BB . The French Catholic Office of Cinema : thumbs down ! I quote them : " showing such a tragedy as male homosexuality in a movie made for entertainment is intolerable ! To avoid . " But gays watching this movie have also good reasons to be infuriated . I'm not so sure that the 1960 audience leaving the theater did not heave a sigh of relief : " Those people are not like us . Look what they did here ! " ( remember what happened with " silence of the lambs " and " basic instinct " ) That said , the screenplay was written with care , BB acts naturally and she is a feast for the eye . She is given good support by Henri Vidal , the most handsome man of the era , singer Dario Moreno , Philippe Nicaud as a drag artist-singing Edith Piaf's " Mon Manège à Moi " - Georges Descrière and Maria Pacôme .
the film Flaubert would have made from his novel	This was Claude Chabrol's intention and it's easier to say than to do . Gustave Flaubert's novel was so rich , undulating that any adaptation in images can only be reducing and simplistic . More than the tragic story of its heroine , Flaubert's novel encompassed a word picture of Normandy ( the bulk of the film was shot in the village of Lyons-La-Forêt near Rouen ) and a cruel , cynical vision of the world . If the first feature is satisfying on the screen , the second one is hardly perceptible . Hence , this crucial question : is it possible to fully recreate Flaubert's novel ? Chabrol's film is faithful to the main plot with the rise and fall of her heroine sometimes told by François Périer's voice-over in spite of accelerated views on certain vital episodes , notably the peasant marriage that disgusted Emma Bovary . On the other hand , the crest of the novel ( the ball to the marquis ) found a perfect equivalent in Chabrol's film with this shot which goes through the turning dresses creating thus a whirlpool . The glittering life Emma dreams of instead of a dull one with her mediocre husband Charles . Chabrol is buoyed by topnotch interpretations . Even if Isabelle Huppert is a convincing Emma Bovary , a woman whose messy dreams and follies badly conceal boredom and disgust of her condition , the other main actors steal the show with Jean-François Balmer as the perfect , narrow-minded Charles Bovary , Christophe Malavoy as unfaithful Rodolphe Boulanger and Jean Yanne as the unscrupulous chemist Homais . " Madame Bovary " is aesthetically a refined work with lush scenery and lavish costumes that recreate rural life in Normandy in the middle of the nineteenth Century . But Chabrol doesn't break new ground with this adaptation that required something else than an elegant directing , a brilliant cast and splendid scenery . That's why his rendering of Flaubert's work is just an honorable reading of the novel in the end . One could also add that Flaubert's book was a solid opportunity for an onslaught at provincial lower middle class . But it's only skimmed over and it's a wasted bonanza . Chabrol's reading of " Madame Bovary " amounts to the same result as Claude Berri's adaptation of Emile Zola's epic novel " Germinal " in 1993 : honorable instead of being unforgettable , a commendable action instead of a ground-breaking creation . The author of " le Boucher " ( 1970 ) was rather on the wrong track but fortunately , he'll find his way again the following year with another woman depiction : " Betty " ( 1992 ) . Georges Simenon's universe suits him much better than Flaubert's one .
Les grandes gueules .	With " L'Empreinte des Géants " , Robert Enrico returns to his favorite subject : manly friendship against a hostile world . He had begun in this vein with his " les Grandes Gueules " and reached a peak with the following work " Les Aventuriers " . Nothing is left from the ambitious first efforts such as " Au Coeur de la Vie " ( which would remain Enrico's best ) and " La Belle Vie " . People who liked " Les Grandes Gueules " will enjoy " l'Empreinte des Géants " . It's more of the same . The sawmill has been replaced by a highway building site . There are several good sequences but as a whole the movie leaves a little to be desired . It's interesting to note that Anne Wiazemsky , discovered by Bresson in " Au Hasard Balthazar " , plays here the only " mainstream " part of her career .
Place your bets in Macao .	Fact : although the movie was to be released in 1939 , it was postponed to 1942 . WW2 had broken out and all Stroheim's scenes were remade with Pierre Renoir instead of the Austrian actor / director . After the liberation , the original version was shown in the theaters . Jean Delannoy , although always put down by the nouvelle vague , is a good director , whose best works were made in the fifties though ( notably his two Maigret ) . " Macao " , IMHO , is not Delannoy at his best . One can feel a lot of influences ; Marcel Carné's " Jenny " : in that work , Françoise Rosay did not want her daughter to know about her job ( go-between ) ; in Delannoy's work , Ying-Tchai ( Hayakawa ) does not want his daughter Jasmine ( Louise Carletti ) to discover he's involved in dealings and the owner of a dive ( which recalls " Forfaiture " , also featuring the Japanese thespian ) ; Von Sternberg's extravaganzas such as " Shanghai express " . Roland Toutain is miscast as the young romantic lead . The plot remains a bit confused and , except in the last pictures , Delannoy's perfect style cannot make up for it : it would have taken more madness : only the last sequence , where Hayakawa outdoes himself reaches a peak of tragic grandeur . But weren't it for that only , " Macao " would remain watchable . Besides , Mireille Balin's character is modern , a femme fatale with a down-to-earth side .
Topical movie .	Abuse was not a subject people used to talk about in the late sixties . How many children suffered and refused to speak ? André Cayatte , the former lawyer , was the first in France to tackle this taboo subject . Often dismissed as unhip and academic by the likes of the nouvelle vague , Cayatte was nevertheless the first to broach euthanasia long before " whose life is it anyway ? " ( " justice est faite " ) or death penalty before " I want to live " ( " Nous sommes tous des assassins ) . A schoolteacher is accused of rape by one , then two , three of his pupils . " The risks of the job " ! ( check the title ) . Overnight , it completely breaks his life . For his wife , it's also a nightmare . It was singer Jacques Brel's first ( and best ) part and he had good support from Emmanuelle Riva - the scene when she depicts the torture of the wheel to her stunned pupils may be the best of the whole movie . Actually , this movie , although very conventional in its form , was ahead of its time : take a good look at what happens everyday . Pedophilia was not born yesterday and now every month brings a new affair , concerning the humble like this teacher and also the high and the mighty , guilty or not . .
Beware of dentists	A good thriller , which loses steam halfway through , but regains its interest in the last thirty minutes , thanks to a very good unexpected twist . Yes there was such a thing almost fifty years ago . An aging Stewart Granger portrays a wealthy British Bourgeois with a shady past whose marriage with Nicole ( the beautiful Haya Harareet , famous for her part of Esther in " Ben Hur " ) is on the rocks . His dentist blackmails him , and around him , everybody may be a potential danger . The plot involves drugs , robbery , a soon-to-be-retired cop and plenty of foggy views of London in a bleak black and white . It's not in the same as league as Hitchcock , but it's quite entertaining .
Genesis	In her memoirs , Ava Gardner wrote that she hated some of her lines , notably when she had to tell her servant she would give children to her husband . " I just cannot say that , it's not my style " But the director answered : " my dear , you will " . " The Bible " is par excellence the movie Huston's fans love to hate ; other examples are " the roots of Heaven " or " the barbarian and the geisha " . Hindsight displays its charms : first , it is an accurate rendition of the Genesis ( the title reads " in the beginning " and it is exactly what it is ) . There's more voice over than dialog but if you have read the Bible ( and I'm sure you have ) you know that the characters have only a few lines to say . Chapters include the Creation and the wonders of nature ; Adam and Eve ; Abel and Cain ( should Abel have gone veggie , crime would never happen ) ; Noah ' s ark where the animals went in two by two just to get out of the rain and the huge hippopotamus - featured in the movie - did not get stuck in the door , thanks to the patriarch's watchful eye ( played by the director himself ) ; Nemrod ( a hardly recognizable Stephen Boyd ) and the tower of Babel ; Abraham whose segment is the most important in the whole movie ( about one hour is given over to his alliance with God , Sara and Agar - the scene of the pieces of dried fruit is worth the price of admission - , Isaac , Jehovah asking the patriarch to kill Him a son ) ; and Loth's adventures in Sodom where the Angel warns him : do notlook back when you escape from the doomed city . Poor wife ! The cinematography is splendid , particularly in the first sequences . But the most satisfying sequences are to be found towards the end : Abraham's sacrifice takes place in the desert among ruins and here Huston seems to transcend his subject whereas in the other segments , he only makes a picture book . Compared to Sergio Leone's " Sodom and Gomorrah " , is it so bad ?
A few lines in the Bible . . . .	. . . and presto ! a screenplay ! I do not exaggerate : there are five or six lines given over to Sheba in the Bible . She came to visit Solomon and suggested riddles to him . Then she came back singing the king's praises . These riddles allow double entente mind you . So why not a love story between Solomon and Sheba ? In 1959 , King Vidor had nothing to prove . He had made at least a dozen of classics : " the big parade " " the crowd " and " hallelujah " are Early . " " Our daily bread " and " duel in the sun " are Middle . " Fountainhead " and " Ruby Gentry " are Late . " Solomon and Sheba " belongs to the latter phase of Vidor's brilliant career . It has not to be taken seriously but it's much fun to watch it , even if it sometimes becomes ridiculous ( all the " religious pagan " scenes , Lollobrigida praying her idol or the infamous orgy that does not equal the one which the Jews enjoy when Mosis is talking with God in " the ten commandments " ) . Lollobrigida , in spite of her Italian accent , is a superb queen . George Sanders is a delightful villain . Brynner is wearing a wig , but it does not prevent him to be fair , as the obligatory " whose-baby-is-it ? " scene shows . SPOILER : Sheba's resurrection is weird . I'm not a specialist , but it seems to me that this concept is Christian . There's not such a thing in the Old testament . Never mind . If you enjoy epics , you'll enjoy " Solomon and Sheba " .
The actors make it worthwhile	On the Christmas eve , a fire breaks out in a big supermarket . For this unscrupulous scrap ( metal ) merchant , Constant Van Loo ( Bernard Giraudeau ) , it's an heaven-sent opportunity to get rid of his wife Annette by pretending she died in the flames whereas in reality he dropped her from the top of a big furnace . There's one unidentified corpse under the form of ashes for the police inspector Voitot ( Patrick Chesnais ) and Van Loo makes him believe that these remains are his wife . But they are also demanded by a horticulturist , Benoît ( Ticky Holgado ) who like Van Loo killed his wife . The two men start to get on well together while Voitot flanked by an ambitious female colleague starts to clarify the affair . Peter Kassovitz , Mathieu's father located his grim story in an industrial scenery in the northern France and reinforced its gritty tonality with a quite dour cinematography . But he also plays on the contrast when he films the sequences dealing with Benoît's lovely house and greenhouse shot in clear lights . Black humor emanating from this story is kept low-key but perennial throughout the film . I particularly like the first minutes during which the director just has to show a few shots to make the viewer understand that Van Loo can't put up with his wife . Afterwards and in spite of this discreet but constant bias for grisly humor and the inclusion of delightful moments , the different unifying threads of his story are shot in a little glib way and his making is a little flabby . So , laughter are too interspersed here and there . More input and precision were required from the director . " Drôles D'Oiseaux " would be almost nothing without his threesome of great actors , especially Bernard Giraudeau . Even when a film is minor like our concerned one and by his wide acting skills , he can put it in the category of little winners . Here , he's well supported by his two partners . I particularly prefer Ticky Holgado when he's in the throes of a fit of madness . Even in these moments , his acting remains very subdued and it's all the more positive as he acts a rather neurotic man . These two actors make their monstrous characters likable and the director keeps a certain proximity with them . At last Patrick Chesnais , a big and a little overlooked French actor is also more than palatable as a lazy cop who like his two suspects doesn't seem to form a happy couple with his wife . But he will have an idea . . . Although this work isn't as potent as it was supposed to be , it has the virtue of taking a lowly even gloomy background and bestowing it with touches of incongruous humor to stop it from plunging in hopeless blackness . This could make it a cousin from several English films with harsh reality social at their core and humor as a means of defense .
The bride wore black but the movie did not .	Truffaut was one of William Irish's greatest fans ; he wrote a preface for an edition of the American writer's short stories . Not only he directed this movie but he adapted " la sirène du mississipi " too . There's just one problem . Irish's absolute tragic side totally eludes Truffaut . A critic wrote that this writer's endings did not put an end to horror , but prolongated it . Nothing comes close to Irish's desperate universe here . Jean Delannoy , whom Truffaut despised a lot , did a better job with " obsession " . Jeanne Moreau is not Irishian at all . She's too self-confident , too full of joie de vivre to interpret such a character . I've always dreamed of what Alexandra Stewart - who plays a small part as a teacher here - could have done with it . Obviously , Truffaut's directing is a tribute to Alfred Hitchcock , but I'm not sure that the Hitchcockian treatment was adequate here . It worked in " rear window " because this movie was , in the beginning , one of Irish's short stories and the master could develop it as he wished , but in the full length of a whole novel , the treatment destroys the emotion and the " lost in advance " feeling which emanate from this tormented soul-Irish spent all his miserable life in an hotel room with his mother ; an homosexual , he never found true love - . The cast is appealing but most of the actors are wasted , be they Michel Bouquet or Jean - Claude Brialy . Of course , it watchable , there's some suspense , but if you're searching for Irish's world , you must move on .
La Belle Epoque	" La Belle Epoque " , just before WW1 is just a cliché . Was it so beautiful ? Was it the lost paradise ? Certainly not . When he depicted France ( it was not the first time : see also " Madame Bovary " feat also Louis Jourdan as Rodolphe Boulanger ; " An American in Paris " " lust for life " and " the four horsemen of the Apocalypse " was yet to come ) , Minnelli gave a par excellence " Hollywoodian " sanitized depiction . It ' s not necessarily pejorative : " Madame Bovary " had the best Emma I know ( Jennifer Jones ) , " AN American in Paris " is dazzling , " lust for life " beats hands down the FRench " Van Gogh " version with Jacques Dutronc . " Gigi " is a different matter . A musical remake of feminist Jacqueline Audry's adaptation of Colette's novel in 1948 . That was actually a trilogy , featuring the same actress , Danièle Delorme " , of which " Gigi " was the first volet . Visually , " Gigi " is a splendor , all red and gold , except for the scene when Gaston wanders aimlessly in the night and where black becomes a true color . But except for Gigi herself I can't find an endearing character in the story . " La Belle Epoque " was certainly the good old time , but only for rich bourgeois selfish bon vivant such as Gaston , his uncle et al . Gigi's grandma and aunt , like it or not , are making a " Cocotte " ( courtezan ) of their protégée . But , and Colette's feminist side takes the upper hand , Gigi ( played by French Leslie Caron : this is the only Minnelli movie feat three FRench leads ) strikes back . . . . even if what the FRench used to call ( still do ) " un Beau Marriage " is par excellence the bourgeois dream . I do not go much for " Gigi " ' s score ; compared with those of " brigadoon " , the songs are not very tuneful , never really exciting ; and as for the words , well " thank you Heaven " ! But the lyrics are often spoken ( anyway if Chevalier was primarily a singer , Jourdan was not ) , or sung like a dialog , which probably had a strong influence on French Jacques Demy who made the first all-musical film ever with " les Parapluies de Cherbourg " , a work where every line of dialog was sung . Minnelli's vision of Paris would certainly influence Demy too as far as his depictions of Cherbourg and ( Les Demoiselles de ) Rochefort are concerned .
Fine directing , makes up for the weakness of the screenplay	Cornell Woolrich's ( William Irish's ) novel was not among his best . The movie highlights its problem : unlike " I married a dead man " or " the bride wore black " there isn't one single really endearing character in it . Jacques Tourneur , a great horror movies director ( " cat people " ) is to be commended for almost transcending the limitations he's working under . There are strong connections with " cat people " . Two scenes are particularly spooky : the first one is the young girl , screaming behind the locked door and the blood stain which appears under it . the second is even stronger : a girl is locked up in the cemetery where the graves , the statues and the whispering trees become enemies . The ending is not very convincing , and it takes all Tourneur's talent to turn it in an impressive scene , with an extraordinary use of a procession of penitents .
a corny title for an unfinished film	Rather than serving a prison sentence , a bunch of delinquent teenagers is offered to work for one month in the country in a small village with their instructor ( Roschdy Zem ) . As they come from high-risk suburbs and they aren't prepared for this exhausting life , this obligatory stay will prove to be grueling for them . And most inhabitants of the village aren't prepared to accept them . Jean Pierre Sinapi signed two strong works before this " Camping à la Ferme " : " Nationale 7 " ( 2000 ) and " Vivre me Tue " ( 2002 ) . In these films , the director got interested in human beings who were different to the world that surrounded them and learned how to accept their differences . " Camping à la Ferme " is virtually in the same league but a little below the quality of the two aforementioned works . How many times in cinema have we seen the well-worn topic of the clash of two cultures ? Each young delinquent acts a too well known type of adolescent between the Muslim one and the business one . The inhabitants of the village are hostile to them , especially Dominique Pinon who acts a racist farmer . The film follows a predictable pattern with the usual ingredients : the discovery and respect of difference , generosity and love . What doesn't help matters is the educator who is tangled in his loving problems . But Sinapi seemed aware of these dangers and he tried not to spread them too much in his film . Thus , his film is never crass or vulgar and at a pinch , it shouldn't be lambasted . But he should have deepened more the original points his scenario offered . Be that as it may , it's often funny and Roschdy Zem is in the right tone in his role and if his young partners seemed too caricatured , they're larger than life . The director didn't like the title of his film which he deemed as " trite " . I agree with him and in the end , we have a watchable product which tries to avoid as much as possible most of its tempting dangers but which should have gained by trusting some of its original directions . It's good for one viewing but that's all .
Pleasant B movie .	" This island earth " " Tarentula " and this film are nice B movies by Jack Arnold . " The incredible shrinking man " , on the other hand , is a genuine masterpiece , thanks essentially to Richard Matheson's book which he adapted himself for the screen . A big difference . But do not deny ourselves a good thing . " Creature " has a fine black and white cinematography , and its sequences in the black waters of the lagoon can grab today's audience , particularly the one when Kay swims , followed by the man / fish . The characters are routine , the girl's part consists essentially of screaming , exciting Mark's jealousy and allowing a " Beauty and the Beast " trick , a poor man's King Kong . Special effects buffs will not get something out of it , but special effects do not necessarily make a good movie . Watchable , but you'd better choose " shrinking man " if you ' ve never seen an Arnold movie ! aand make sure you see it before the impending remake !
Arletty's very last part . . .	. . . before she became almost blind and gave up acting . And she had not played opposite to Fernandel since " Fric Frac " ( 1939 ) . " Le Voyage à Biarritz " is not a great swansong for an actress who was featured in the all-time masterpiece of the FRench cinema " Les Enfants du Paradis " ! But it is pleasant entertaining harmless stuff . Fernandel , as endearing as ever , plays a station master ( in a station where trains do not stop anymore ) . He is proud of his son who's just passed his engineer degree ( in London at that ) and he tells it to all the world . But the young man does things with a posh English family ( beware of marmelade ! English put sleeping pills in it to take you to the church where you get married before you have time to catch your breath ! ) Fernandel's dream has always been , when his son has got his diploma , to make a trip to Biarritz and to stay in a chic hotel where his friend , the restaurant owner ( Arletty ) spent some time when she was young . THere is just a problem : now that the boy is educated , he is ashamed of his parents and does not know where he stands anymore . Almost a surrealistic title , " Le Voyage A Biarritz " will appeal to Fernandel's numerous fans .
The French cops investigate . .	Maurice Tourneur , who was back in France in the early thirties , made an undistinguished work " Accusée Levez-Vous " which was pure filmed stage production style . But " Au Nom de La Loi " is a return to good directing , as far as cinema is concerned . The ending , when the traffickers are encircled in their flat while a crowd is watching in the street , probably stems from Tourneur's American career . Alfred HItchcock ' s final scene in " the man who knew too much " ( 1934 ) is similar . Even Marcel Carné's " Le Jour se Lève " ( 1939 ) owes something to it , including teargas . The French Police investigate drug traffickers . Among them is a dangerous femme fatale , Sandra ( Marcelle Chantal , cast against type , for she was par excellence the bourgeois woman of the French melodrama ) , with whom a young cop , Marcel ( Jean Marchat ) falls in love . A whole scene shows the two lovers smoking dope on a boat . Charles Vanel who made more movies than any other French actors , is cast as Lancelot ( sic ) the loyal cop .
the UFO ( Unidentified Filming Object ) of 2004 ?	This work could be the strongest contender for this title . It's incredible that the Poiraud brothers were able to find a bucketful of producers to finance their hare-brained project . Maybe because they feared to see where all the millions of Euros had gone , they didn't want to see the finished product before it opened in France in the summer 2004 and one could add in particular conditions . There were neither screenings for the specialized press in cinema nor trailers on the telly or at the movies . Personally , I remember very well when I went to see " Spider-Man 2 " ( 2004 ) at the theaters . In the corridor leading to the room , I noticed a cover of the film but I didn't pay much attention at all about it . I didn't have the single inkling of the contents of the Poiraud's product . Anyway , their work was bound to disappear from the French theaters after a few weeks of screening . Commercial suicide in all its splendor which can be easily explained . How can you expect to make audiences flock to an amorphous story ? At a pinch , the most curious ones might have been interested to have a look at it . . . I must admit that it's not that much bad . Okay , anyone who will label this movie as a masterwork will be a liar and at first sight one would like to hammer " Atomik Circus : Le Retour De James Bataille " and to relegate it to purgatory but there are some valuable plus sides one can save from this wreckage . About the title : is it a misnomer ? Given the various ingredients the Poiraud brothers put in their dish , one could agree that it's a real circus they have concocted . And what about James Bataille ? Actually , one doesn't see him for nearly the half of the movie . He has just a few lines to say and the moments during which he has the meatiest part of his role finds itself at the end of the movie , especially during a fight . It is funny when one knows that Bataille means " fight " in French . The outset of the film takes us to Skotlett , a lost dump where one wouldn't want to spend one's holidays populated with inhabitants with a redneck mentality . The tail end showcases a desert landscape which seems directly taken from " Planet of the Apes " ( 1968 ) or even a part of " Capricorn One " ( 1978 ) , Peter Hyams ' best effort . Between the two , two different subplots . On the one hand , Conchia ( Vanessa Paradis ) who is eager to take a chance in music . She's spotted by an unscrupulous manager Alan Chiasse ( Benoît Poelvoorde ) who's more interested in her look than her potential as an artist . On the other hand , James Bataille ( Jason Fleyming ) who strives to come back to Skotlett to find again her fiancée Conchia . Two conventional subplots which culminate with an invasion of aliens and it's virtually a rehash of the sci-fi of the fifties crossed with horror ( there's blood galore and ripped bodies ) . If one plays the Poiraud brothers ' game , if one accepts this unlikely mix of distinct cinematographic genres in a preposterous story , if one accepts this hustle of the narrative conventions , not taken seriously " Atomik Circus " is rather fun to watch . While reading the two subplots , one could detect something conventional in them but the directors try to thwart it through the unexpected like the alien invasion for instance . Also conventional is the final fight between Bataille and Chiasse transformed in an alien . You probably guessed the winner but the story isn't over and the predictable side of what follows is defused by an unexpected twist in the tail end . These qualities mustn't make the lover forget that there are negative points in the Poiraud brothers'UFO . First , problems of rhythm : sluggish at the outset but wild with the carnage caused by the aliens . Then , two-bit tricks to bridge some steps of the story are difficult to swallow and the Poiraud brothers aren't virtuosos of the camera at all . There is a lot of hand-held camera , an amateur side and sometimes they botch the job . Same remark for a scenario which is sometimes ill-conceived . ( The first draft encompassed many other things which weren't tapped during the shooting ) . But if you're tired of walking safely in the landscape of French cinema , watch this mix of " Romeo and Juliet " and " Mars Attacks " ( 1996 ) as the press kit deemed it . It could have gained with a little more of attention and control . One last thing : the actors had fun by overplaying their characters who are real puppets . The cast includes Jean-Pierre Marielle who agreed to replace the sadly regretted Jean Yanne and I wonder what he would have done with his part . All of them said they really enjoyed the shooting and the vibe of the film and the set . You might also enjoy this film if you follow some of the possible instructions I mentioned earlier .
Louis the thirteenth as a teenager !	Not the way the French pupils and students remember him . He was not a jolly fellow . When he died , soon after le Cardinal de Richelieu , both were not mourned . But " le Capitan " takes place during the king's youth , when Concini was ruling the country on behalf of the queen mother Anne d'Autriche , and when Richelieu was a Concini protégé - he does not appear anyway - Jean Marais was cast as Jean Marais the fair knight , a part he played in half a dozen of swashbucklers of the era ( " le capitaine Fracasse " , " le miracle des loups " " le bossu " " le masque de fer " " les mysteries de Paris " . . ) . Elsa Martinelli , a former Kirk Douglas protégée supplies the love interest : a belle who wants her father to become king and thus to overthrow the legitimate one . Concini was , even in history , a true villain who squandered the money that Sully , Henri the Fourth's minister , had amassed . In the movie , he becomes a super villain , trying to kill his king by poisoning him or drugging his horse . Why not ? Bourvil and Pierrette Bruno provides the flick with a welcome comic relief . Those old Marais movies retain a certain charm . History was given a rough ride , à la Alexandre Dumas , but they are still enjoyable today . Recommended for the family .
The second song of Bernadette .	Critically speaking , this new version of Bernadette Soubirous ' s life was greeted with a poor reception in its native France . Coming just after critically-acclaimed Alain Cavalier's " Therese " ( de Lisieux ) , the movie got unanimous thumb downs . And yet what can you expect from Jean Delannoy , Jean Luc Godard's favorite bete noire ? This movie seems to have been made a long time ago . Delannoy , however , has always had spiritual concerns ( Dieu a besoin des hommes , la symphonie pastorale ) and I'm not sure that , at almost 90 , he was trying to capitalize on Cavalier's success . " Bernadette " did not deserve such a harshness . As Delannoy says in the cast and credits , Bernadette was simplicity itself and that's what we tried to do here . A naive uneducated girl , her answers to the shrinks , the priests and the bourgeois were not unlike those of Joan of Arc during her trial : simple but witty . And I dig the last lines ( A nun ) - C'est ça Bernadette ? ( the Saint ) - Oui , c'est ça ! Jean Delannoy was to continue in the pious vein with " Marie de Nazareth " but that last effort lacks even the humor we find in " Bernadette " and it was a disappointment .
The soldier has come home .	A good adaptation of the Balzac novel . Raimu - who forgets for a while his Provençal accent - was not exactly the character but the last sequence in the old people home where he meets again the Grognards , the campaigners of Napoleon's army is one of his finest signatures . In several respects , this is a political story : under Louis the Eighteenth's reign , there was no room anymore for the nobility Napoleon the First had created from start to finish : consequence of the French Revolution when all the nobles emigrated , since July 1789 . When Chabert who was reported missing after a battle , emerged again , he was burdensome for his " widow " ( Marie Bell ) who got married again , and with a count , a descendant of the old aristocracy at that . Le Henaff was to direct again Raimu in " les Gueux Aux Paradis " ( 1945 )
Nothing frightens me more than religion at my door . ( John Cale )	Nino Manfredi was an actor who made interesting flicks : " pane e cioccolate " is probably the most memorable . " Per grazia ricevuta " might be less palatable for a mainstream audience . Actually , it will mainly appeal to people who were brought up catholics ( and changed totally afterward ) . The precedent user wrote about his " confirmation day " actually it's his " solemn communion " day . This is minor quibble : the scene when the boy chokes on host is a very funny metaphor . A man tried to take his own life and is rushed to the hospital where he remembers scenes of the past , most of them dealing with religion . The first flashback is the best of all : any viewer who ' s been through it all , Sunday school , pious pictures , bigotry , the first time you've gone to confession , will go for a ride in the Time Machine . Manfredi spices his memories with dark irony : the auntie telling her nephew that her night visitor ( her lover ) was certainly the village's favorite saint . The rest is more uneven but if you really want to know WHAT the Extreme-Unction is and WHY catholics do it , it's the movie you've got to see . Manfredi draws an interesting parallel between the priest's and the doctor's gestures . Another strong scene is the " wedding " which echoes to the communion sequence . An interesting work , but you've got to have an interest in religion to fully appreciate it .
Last stadium / Last stage .	In French , " dernier stade " has two meanings : last stadium and last stage . The title of the movie is entirely adequate . Although it tackles a taboo subject , this movie held neither the critics ' nor the audience's attention . Okay it is made-for-TV quality , it should appeal to people interested in the world of sport . An athlete , who has been injured , wants to continue her career at any cost : she falls into the hand of a shady coach and his sidekick an irresponsible doctor . It's her downfall : drug abuse , - " your female champion will pretty soon turn into a male one " the girl's boyfriend says to the coach - , dope tests , ways of passing these tests , uncontrollable behavior , nothing is spared the audience . The " training " makes the athlete a miserable human wreck , at her last stage . To my knowledge , it's the only movie which deals with this harsh subject , and although it's far from being a masterpiece , it does show the dark side of sport , warts and all : generally people prefer success stories with a happy end . Hence the failure of the film .
The beast in the nature .	What I have to say is merely a repetition of what the other users said before : the two leads literally save the movie from absolute mediocrity . They are so good , their performances are so intense that they are to be commended for transcending the limitations they are working under . The script writers , in order to make sure the audience understands they have been watching a " deep " " meaningful " work call Jeremiah ( and the Bible ) to the rescue , but it's too little too late . This is the well known mix road movie / " there's a killer on the road " ( as Jim Morrison used to sing ) , and even a child could guess who he is . But the film deserves a look , weren't it only for the way two first-class actors can redeem abysmal scripts .
The omega man will not be legend .	I saw the movie when it was theatrically released and I enjoyed it very much . Since , I read Matheson's novel , I saw the first version " last man on earth " and , when I saw it again recently , I was not as much thrilled as I had been then . On the plus side , Heston is a solid actor whose talent is obvious , the desert landscapes are impressive , and the scene when Rosalind Cash becomes a mutant gives the jitters even today . But the script writers have given a totally false rendering of Matheson's sensational conclusion : man has become THE enemy , now the new society is the vampires ' one ( it deals with vampires , not mutants in the book ) and man will become a legend ( hence the title of Matheson's novel ) , a superstition , a tale the parents will tell their naughty children when the lights are on ( or I hope so ) . Here Neville is not only the omega man , he's also the alpha man . And the final shots show him in the Christ position , a Christ without whom the others could not have survived . But these others are the human race carrying on and en route to the brand new world it's never too late to build . Plus ça change . . Also handicapped by frequent use of the hippie ideology . Heston watching " Woodstock " in a desert theater ( Coming into Los Angeles , sings Arlo ) , because he needs company - and " Woodstock " is par excellence the " crowd " movie-cannot match the intimate pictures which the hero of " last man on earth " enjoys . Both " Woodstock " and the " normal " human neo hippy community date the movie , whereas the black and white version is timeless . It's very interesting , provided you've read the novel , to see the Vincent Price version and the Charlton Heston one in a row .
searching for lost keys . . .	" Les Clefs De Bagnole " , a film which got a majority of thumbs down from both the French critics and public . Many viewers took the little catchy sentence at the time the film opened in December 2003 very seriously : " Don't go and watch it , it's rubbish " . But in a way , by choosing such words , the director-actor Laurent Baffie condemned the commercial potential of his work . So , commercial fiasco was nearly inevitable . However , I must admit that his oddball film is not that much bad . I know that Baffie is a humorist man who has a special sense of humor but I've never seen or read any of his productions . Here , I can easily understand why hardly anybody went to see his movie and also why " La Crème De La Crème " of well-famous French actors and prestigious producers refused to act in Baffie's work ( but maybe , was it a cunning trick from Baffie to include all of them in his film ) . But he entertained me for one hour and a half and if you're looking for something quirky , offbeat in the territory of the French comedy , why not testing it ? Obviously , Baffie's movie isn't exempted from negative points . There are some irregularities in his scenario . During one fleeting moment , he says to his pal Daniel Russo that he needs a twist to boost his ( cock-and-bull ) story again . But before , he claims having conceived and penned his scenario for three years . So , he should logically know how his scenario is built instead of thinking about a twist at the last minute ! Then , certain comical effects are ponderous and there is a wearisome sensation of general overflow sometimes on the brink of indigestion . Sometimes , it's also hard to discern if what we watch on the screen is an integral part of the film that Baffie strives to shoot or not like the sequence with the bank manager . A bank manager acted by a French humorist Jean-Marie Bigard who , here was surprisingly good and refrained himself from virtually any saucy lines apart from two or three exceptions . Baffie is well aware that his plan is a dead loss but his product constantly maintains the interest because he takes the audience on the way of the unexpected . His film virtually evolutes on the razor's edge and is much fun to watch with its unplanned detours and digressions . If they seem sometimes overlong , Baffie always bears in mind that he tries to create a film about two guys who lost their car keys and seek them . To find them again , he's ready to blindly trust people likely to to give him clues about these keys like the children . Don't we say that " out of the mouths of babes and sucklings comes forth truth " ? To buy a dog trained to bring car keys back might also be a good idea . . . In the bargain , the director-actor has a sense of absurd ( the door in his flat which leads to the beach ) and indulges in inserting in his work hilarious spoofs like the moment when Russo and Lucie are outside the Café . . . and we are entitled to a swift but great spoof on mawkish movie . The wacky humor has something of " La Cité De La Peur " ( 1994 ) , the film of " Les Nuls " . Besides , Alain Chabat has a cameo as an employee in a pet shop . He only appears five minutes but we remember well his role . Baffie also seems to be a wizard at cinema . His film is filled with many film-loving hints , winks , references which sometimes arrive just at the right moment . After Baffie and Russo went to the chic restaurant , Russo feels sick and throws it up . On an awning , in front of them , one can read the title of Marco Ferreri's film : " La Grande Bouffe " ( 1973 ) . Then , we can be grateful to Baffie to present us a few lessons about cinema in general like the ellipse or the little lecture about the ingredients to make a good film . If you don't take seriously this farce , you may have fun with perhaps this future sleeper .
They are not angels / Terre de France .	This movie was divided into two parts when it was theatrically released . The running time of the English version is shorter than the original one . Part 1 : " They are not angels " depicts the training of the French paratroopers in England before the D Day . We make acquaintance with a dozen of them , soldiers and officers . Close to documentary , it's not devoid of humor ( the scene when the MO warns his men of the dangers of VDs in veiled terms in a girls school ) or restrained emotion ( the accident ) . We feel the paratroopers ' love for their motherland and their dear Paname ( Paname is not only Paris's old nickname but one of the heroes's name or nickname ) when they smell a metro ( subway ) ticket which they share . Part 2 " Terre de France " : after their landing , we follow the heroic fighters through a ruined land . This part is more eventful . The soldiers discover the harsh reality of lost companions , tortures but also the bravery of humble people . Only two of them will survive .
No miracle worker	The follow-up to " Manèges " , " Les Miracles N'Ont Lieu Qu'une fois " depicts true love whereas the former was all cupidity , nastiness and cheat . The screenplays bears more than a distant resemblance with " Paradis Perdu " ( 1939 ) by Abel Gance , at least in its first third . Alida Valli and Jean Marais , both very good-looking , portray two students who want to become surgeons ; they fall in love and spend some time in paradise in Italy . Alas , WW2 breaks out . When the soldier comes home , will he meet his love again ? And will their love survive eleven long years ( and however WW2 ended in 1945 ; as the hero's marriage was short-lived , it's strange he waits so much time to search his lost love ) ? Neither Allégret's directing nor Sigurd's screenplay are particularly memorable ; compared to " Manèges " and its story told from two different point of views , " Miracles " uses a monotonous voice over ( Jean Marais ) till you are fed up with it . Worth a look for the two marvelous actors , but that's it . Allégret's and Marais's collaboration would continue in the follow-up " Nez-de - Cuir " which more satisfying but it was " les Orgueilleux " before Allégret gave a major work ( which was his last important movie anyway )
The soft side of May 1968 .	This little movie owes a lot to his main stars , Marina Vlady and Frederic de Pasquale . This is the simple story of a laborer working overtime to give his wife a comfortable life , but who does not understand she's frustrated . While snatches of turmoil are heard on the radio , their couple runs into difficulties when she falls in love with a teacher . He epitomizes culture , a world she hardly knew ( there is a very odd scene , at the beginning , showing the eleven-year old son and his mother , watching some kind of opera " the Persians " ; another unusual scene : on the building site , the laborers discover some kind of Venus de Milo and some of them act with it as if it were a woman in the flesh ) Simone Signoret's daughter Catherine Allégret plays the occasional prostitute who appears briefly at the end . A very nice score by Georges Moustaki .
mafia blues	If one analyzes the basic topic of this slick comedy , one realizes that it had a certain potential to charm Hollywood producers and to score well at the American box-office . Take a powerful but neurotic , bilious gangster named Paul Vitti ( Robert De Niro ) who suffers from crises of anxiety and make him nag at a peaceful analyst ( Billy Cristal ) to cure him in a few days . As it was expected , it antagonizes his wife ( Lisa Kudrow ) and awakes suspicion from the police . The filmmaker Harold Ramis signed a shrewd , canonical film a few years before he began the shooting of this one : " Groundhog Day " ( 1993 ) in which subtlety was a winning weapon . Here in our work that is chiefly a present vehicle for the two main stars , subtlety is more sporadic and consequently " Analyze This " doesn't match the brilliance of the 1993 film . Even if it's a little impersonal work from Ramis , this work is watchable if not memorable . The methodology of this comedy is reliant on a formulaic master plan and a well-defined road : as soon as Vitti pesters his shrink and invades his life for poor Ben it's the end of serenity . It's all the more dismaying as he was to marry with his fiancée ( why has her father to be a cardboard character ? ) who has a grudge on him . Ramis and his scenarists toy with several types of comic processes and it gives way to subtle , verbal lines or irresistible comic situations but also ponderous ones which unbalances the film in its comic processes . But one stays to the end of this excursion which fulfills its pledges : to entertain thanks mainly to its stars and also to parody the ruthless world of the mafia . The winning team and the formula were to be hired again three years later for the underwhelming " Analyze That " ( 2002 ) .
I'm not for and I'm not against Cédric Klapisch's first try at film noir	The golden age of the film noir in French cinema was in the forties and fifties with two unforgettable names : Julien Duvivier and Henri-Georges Clouzot who have left films noir of first quality . Then , the high level persisted with Claude Chabrol in the late sixties . But nowadays , this cinematographic genre survives mainly by ripping off the models of American cinema . Here , with Cédric Klapisch in charge of this " ni pour ni contre ( bien au contraire ) " ( 2003 ) , we can expect to a glimmer of hope to lend the film noir its credibility again . We are a little surprised to find this terrific film-maker , a specialist of social comedies , trying his hand at a genre he has never broached . I'm a huge fan of his cinema , but here I can't make up my mind whether this first foray into an unknown domain was beneficial for him . It left me an impression of mixed although Klapisch's cinematographic writing is as good as usual . I will try to develop my own point of view about this film . Firstly , Klapisch has always been fond of films noir and " ni pour ni contre ( bien au contraire ) " was a project which was close to his heart and it nearly never saw the light of day ( he had written the first part of the film and then left it high and dry because he had difficulties to write the sequel . In the meantime , not to stay inactive , he decided to make " l'auberge espagnole " ( 2002 ) and after that took back " ni pour ni contre . . . " and managed to finish it ) . It is quite easy to detect Klapisch's major influences in his work : " Goodfellas " ( 1990 ) by Martin Scorsese , " Asphalt Jungle " ( 1949 ) by John Huston and Jean Pierre Melville's cinema . Cédric Klapisch's film is divided in two quite patchy parts . Let's begin with the first part : it is quite decent although it is not free from shortcomings . One one hand , there's humor which enables to make less alarming the seriousness of certain situations and on the other hand , the film gets off to a good start with a conclusive introduction about the main characters in their respective social backgrounds . It's also a pleasure to see the director taking out again weapons he wonderfully masters such as the suggestion and what is left unsaid ( concerning the character Katy , we can feel that she's quite unhappy in her life just by looking her dull face and by the way , Marie Gillain has never been so beautiful in this film ) . Then , Klapisch still handles in a clever way his camera : to emphasize on the fact that Katy feels very lonely in her life , the camera leaves from her face and stops in front of the building in which she lives . As for the gang , it avoids as much as possible caricature . The director makes a both funny and dangerous portrait . Of all the members , Zinedine Soualem plays best his game . You have to see him giving lessons of dancing . Nevertheless , the gang's life is partly based on stereotypes , notably when they wallow in money and easy life . But things go wrong in the second part when the movie tells the careful preparations of the stickup and the quite violent consequences of the operation . From here onwards , the director wants to be more serious , more suspenseful and it brings about both a quite rough changing of tone , a serious lack of cohesion with the rest and it harms the unity of the film as a whole . Let's also regret an alternate editing of quite bad taste . It's a shame because it is in this second part that the most representative elements of the film noir are exploited : nocturnal scenes , disturbing scenery , sticky atmosphere . And the end is successful because it is immoral . It also echoes one sequence of the beginning of the film when Katy scratches a " Banco " card . In the end , we've got a courageous but rather failed attempt from Klapisch to renew the film noir . That said , if take on account the fact that the real good French films noir become very rare , " ni pour ni contre ( bien au contraire ) " deserves indulgence in spite of the slight disappointment we can feel at the end the projection . As for Cédric Klapisch , let's hope he will make up for it with the sequel of " l'auberge espagnole " , " les poupées russes " which will be released in June 2005 .
Sam Karmann's 2003 vintage as a director	Basically a stage actor and a close friend of the winning team Jean Pierre Bacri and Agnès Jaoui , Sam Karmann belatedly tried his hand at directing but the few works he left shouldn't be dismissed at all . " Kennedy et Moi " ( 1999 ) was the French " American Beauty " and an ideal cure for its director who had a breakdown prior to shoot it . Although it belongs to another cinematographic genre , " A la Petite Semaine " is every bit as good as its predecessor . From a classy starting point , Karmann drew a respectable piece of work . Jacques ( Gérard Lanvin ) is released from prison and has decided to go straight . But his friend Francis ( Jacques Gamblin ) , an actor who lives with his mother and an impulsive young man Didier ( Clovis Cornillac ) prepares a job . Jacques tries to make them renounce to their affair , it's no use . However , tangled up in their shady affairs , the two casual thieves will soon be caught in a downward spiral and Jacques might have a solution to save them . . . Karmann's film encapsulates two genres and swings between them with fluidity : detective film and social comedy . By the use of key scenery ( cafes ) , sharp dialogs and the type of story employed , his credentials are derived from José Giovanni , Jacques Becker and Michel Audiard . So he knows his classics and he's supported by his great threesome of actors even if I must say that I'm not a fan of Gamblin and Lanvin . The rest of the cast doesn't lie fallow either . The delineation of each secondary character is precise and has its importance in the representation of this rather dull but not despondent everyday life . " A La Petite Semaine " is a throwback to good old popular cinema . How refreshing !
the return of inspector Lavardin	In the middle of the eighties , it would be interesting to see what the survivors of the New Wavelet have become . Well , François Truffaut passed away in 1984 and Eric Rohmer persists in signing empty , sloppy films to show his " skills " at film-making . Her majesty Jean-Luc " God Ard " only keeps his small handful of faithful intellectual ones happy with his hermetic products like " Détective " ( 1985 ) or " je Vous Salue Marie " ( 1985 ) . Same judgment for Jacques Rivette who drive many movie-goers indifferent with his version of " les Hauts De Hurlevents " ( 1985 ) ( Wuthering Heights ) . Fortunately , there's still Claude Chabrol to deliver us a worthy , understandable film even if his production as a whole is patchy . In 1985 , " Poulet Au Vinaigre " boosted his career again and so the temptation to give it a sequel was inevitable . " Inspecteur Lavardin " is the heir of the 1985 film and features again the same main character plunged in the same bourgeois universe , in a different provincial town this time in Dinand in Brittany . He's still acted by Jean Poiret who seemed irreplaceable in this role . The writer Raoul Mons was found murdered on the beach and Lavardin has to find the culprit . His investigation is the opportunity for Chabrol to break the respectable appearance of the upper-class milieu but also to include unexpected twists about the plot , notably when Lavardin found who the murderer is . Like in " Poulet Au Vinaigre " , humor is the main motor of the film , notably with the way Lavardin employs to make his suspects talk . More than in the 1985 film , the witty personality of this maverick cop is more precise and deepened for the audience . " Inspectur Lavardin " isn't as intense as " la Femme Infidèle " ( 1969 ) or " le Boucher " ( 1970 ) but with a palatable story and good acting in the bargain , it would be a shame to skip it . In 1988 , a TV series entitled " les dossiers secrets De l'inspector Lavardin " will be launched and four installments will be shot . NB : video and TV play an important role in the film . It must have given an idea to Chabrol about the direction his next film would take : " Masques " ( 1987 ) .
Thomas Hardy's Jude	How could such a sprawling novel like Hardy's become a two-hour movie ? It was a mammoth task and the result is only partly successful . That's why the beginning of the movie seems botched . Actually everything happens when Kate Winslet's character appears . The main flaw lies in the fact that Jude's main ideal was to become an intellectual , Christminster remained his horizon till the very end . In the movie , the second part of the movie focuses on the Sue-Jude relationship . After the doyen's letter , his cultural ambitions take a back seat and it's Sue who provides the main interest : a woman ahead of her time , despising marriage , this leading to her downfall . Then again , the film recreates the fatality ( recalling sometimes French writer Zola ) hanging on Jude and Sue only occasionally ( Drusilla warning the hero ) . Arabella's character , though vital in the novel , is sometimes reduced to a walk on , the same goes for Aunt Drusilla . Assets : a very good music score , fine performances with K . Winslet the stand-out , beautiful photo and nice film sets .
Adrien got his gun . . . . and became John Merrick .	Based upon a true story which reportedly happened to the novelist's ancestor , " la chambre des officiers " is a strong manifesto against war . The first third of the movie ( before Adrien leaves his bed ) strongly recalls Dalton Trumbo's masterpiece " Johnny got his gun " but with a weaker direction . The voice over , the nurse and the visit of the secretary , not to mention the " dream " about the deer , everything reminds me of " Johnny . . . " ( 1971 ) . But the movie hits its stride afterward , and , despite of overlong sequences , grabs the audience till the end when two wonderful sequences ( the one with the little girl in the metro ( = subway ) , then the last sequence with the woman who repeats " you're no monster " ) preserve the viewer from despair . Whereas war movies have often displayed maimed soldiers , they have rarely ( if they have ) shown disfigured fighters . In the hospital , we catch glimpses of the outside world only from the windows ; " From a distance , one of the unfortunate victims says , we all look the same " . And when the war's over , the 11th of November 1918 , the hero is the only one who does not rejoice . Because His war is not over : it has only begun . And these last sequences , as I said above , are the most poignant of the entire movie . " La chambre des officiers " was first a best-seller ; it was written by an engineer who had never published anything before .
These perfect days	Ira Levin was a terrific writer . He seemed fascinated by small conspiracies ( This story and " Rosemary's baby " ) as well as huge ones ( the world of his classic sci-fi " this perfect day " ) Actually , Levin's novel fuses " Rosemary's baby " ( 1967 : the novel of course ! ) secret plot with this unbearable happiness depicted in his nineteen eighty fouresque " perfect day " ( 1970 ) . Johanna is not unlike Rosemary ; both are modern feminist women who discover a strange conspiracy which might exist in their mind only ; when Johanna visits her shrink , how can't we think of Rosemary and Dr Hill ? These Levinesque heroines see their familiar every day life fragment at the edges and one day they are on their own , against apparently nice people . The difference between " Rosemary ' s baby " and " the Stepford wives " lies in the directing : the former is an undisputed masterpiece while the latter is only a good film , which is not that bad , after all , mainly if you have watched Oz's remake starring Nicole Kidman , an absolute turkey . Katherine Ross is an excellent actress and her female co-stars are good , but the male cast is rather weak , particularly the husband . As Levin's novel is rather short ( about 150 pages ) it was fleshed out by additional scenes not included in the novel ; all are not irrelevant but one of last ones which " explains " what happened to Joanne is overkill . The very last scene is , on the other hand , faithful to the book . There are many funny lines , and I sometimes wonder whether the writer did not write some spoof on women's lib .
Here ( yesterday ) today ( and tomorrow )	This is a great film for McCartney's and Beatles fans ! A splendid time is guaranteed for all . The audience ( feat some celebrities such as Nicholson , Cuzak , Michael Douglas ) is , as always , quite amazing : from small children to old campaigners of the sixties . They know the words to all the songs by heart , and some of them are crying when Paul breaks into " blackbird " " yesterday " " all my loving " and all the treasures of his catalog ( who , except John Lennon and Dylan , can claim such a repertoire ? ) . There are two particularly moving moments : - The double tribute to Lennon and Harrison ; first " here today " performed solo ( the title was included in " tug of war " 1982 and was its best track ) , then " something " when Paul uses an ukulele . - " The long and winding road " rendition , a key moment , when Paul's voice cracks , as he is moved to tears by the hearts the members of the tour crew hold in front of the stage . I remember , in the early seventies , when people used to despise Paul , cause he was not involved in politics , as his ex-partner was . They had to change their mind for Paul is a committed artist : " fame is great cause it allows charity " . The film shows different aspects of Paul's activities , an artist who is anything but selfish .
how to deal and to improve one's life in a gritty environment	For a long time , French cinema had the bias to choose to overlook the marginalized , the social misfits who have trouble to struggle and to fit in a society . In the nineties , some French filmmakers began to get interested in these categories of ill-fated ones as Erick Zonca's tale bears witness . His chronicle of these two friends facing the harsh economic , social realities together was bestowed with prizes in 1998 , 1999 , especially at the Cannes festival where it was one of the jury's favorites . French public and press specialized in cinema gave it an ovation and the film enjoys a favorable reputation abroad , rather rightly so . The director's forte is to showcase and to assess the persona of his two young interprets . At first sight , they're a mismatched pair that everything opposes and brings together . Isabelle ( Elodie Bouchez ) : a 20 year-old young woman who brims with energy and generosity , ready to accept any job not to get bogged down in poverty including to distribute advertising leaflets on roller skates dressed in " sandwich-woman " . Beside her , Marie ( Natacha Régnier ) , bilious , mercurial dissimilar to her sidekick ( to put it mildly ) . Apart from the liking she feels for Isabelle and their friendship is a touch of light in this drab city , she's her complete antipode . She can't put up with her distressing condition , she's rather in bad terms with her mother . She even shows total egocentricity because she doesn't even go to a lot of trouble to visit her cousin Sandrine in a coma and whose mother died shortly after wards . A consequence to her profound discontentment and to her inability to come to terms with her social condition . Maybe an exit to this life for her would be to live with Chris , a rich kid with a more than comfortable living standards . She has a crush on him but the latter treats her like a ghostly girl . Erick Zonca's chronicle is composed of two parts . The first half is nearly faultless and a prime one from every angle . The director tries to capture short-term moments of bliss when the two friends are together and there's a communicative " feel-good " vibe . Zonca also deftly eschews what could make caricatured some characters like the ruffian-like bouncers . The second part veers to a doom-laden turn which even if it serves the title of the film and Marie also makes it formulaic . From the moment when Marie is enamored of Chris , the audience has to expect the inevitable . Marie's love for Chris jeopardizes her friendship with Isabelle who is very aware that Marie's lover considers her as a casual lover and leads her up the garden path . So , almost adamant feuds break out between Isa and Marie who don't manage to calmly communicate face to face . Zonca steers his film according to what the audience expects and the poise that the film created in the first half is damaged and not well dovetailed as a whole . The interest tends to dwindle and Mr Zonca , I would have liked more unexpected , less easiness but fortunately the communicative vitality , the acting full of spontaneity of the two main actresses largely stop you from dismissing this piece of work . I don't want to be a major spoiler and pour out the end . I will just say that it encompasses an upbeat , placating whiff thanks to a song discerningly chosen . " La Vie Rêvée Des Anges " is worth a watch thanks essentially to the two actresses whose performances boosted their careers . Natacha Régnier was venturesome to agree to hold difficult or trying roles later as in François Ozon's disquieting " les Amants Criminels " ( 1999 ) .
Let me ride on the wall of death one more time . . . .	. . . You can waste your time on the other ridesBut this is the nearest to being aliveOh let me take my chances on the wall of death . ( Richard Thompson ) This is a mysterious film . The precedent user was cross cause they did not mention Maria Montez's name on the DVD or video cassette release . He must realize that it's aimed at the French market and in France , who remembers this beautiful but limited ( at least to my eyes , and at least in this film , the only one I've seen featuring her to date ) actress ? The French cast is a dream : first it was Arletty's comeback ; after the problems she had in 1945 , and the unfinished Carné's " la Fleur de l'Age , it was the first film she had made since " les Enfants du Paradis " . The male cast is exciting too : Erich Von Stroheim , and two other Carné's favorites , Pierre Brasseur and Jules Berry . The subject is original . Brasseur portrays a stunt-man who rides his motorbike on the wall of death . He's married to Martha whose love is strong and true but he has come to hate her : he tries to kill her in the first sequence ! But Martha forgives and she delivers a wonderful line " For once , the victim also provides the alibi " . Enter manager Montez : she wants the acrobat to work on a larger scale and she asks an engineer ( Marcel Dalio , who was in " la règle du jeu " and " Casablanca " ) to build a huge track where the man will perform a terrifying looping the loop . The script lacks sometimes rigor and Von Stroheim's character - a disabled man , after working for Montez - repeats more or less the same lines every time he appears . On the other hand , Bernard-Roland perfectly captured the fair / circus atmosphere . He even hired the Fratellinis , a famous clowns family . Probably influenced by Carné and Duvivier , the director continued the Realisme Poétique of the pré-war years and its pessimism . He could have been a heir to that tradition , as contemporary Yves Allégret was . But he essentially worked for TV .
All along the canal	The screenplay is very thin and the story so unlikely it is a wonder Henri Calef made an endearing movie . This must be the cinematography ( Jacques Lemare ) : the pictures are really a feast for the eyes . Almost all the story takes place on a barge sailing down a canal , or on the banks beneath the shady trees which seem to protect the characters . The faces are often filmed in close-shot , which increases the tension , for the characters often move in the cabins of the barge with its low ceilings . A woman is on the lam . Distraught , she runs across the streets of a small town , looking for a way to get out of this place . She takes refuge on a barge where two men work . She asks them to take her to Paris and of course she is hiding a terrible secret . Henri Vidal was the romantic young lead of the era , a title Delon and Belmondo would take off him only after his death in 1959 . He was not always given the parts he deserved . Maria Mauban , the female star , did not often play the lead . The supporting actors , apart from Daniel Ivernel ( Jean-Jean ) , only appear a few minutes . Watch out for a brief appearance of Louis De Funès as the lock keeper . Like this ? try these . . . " L'Atalante " Jean Vigo 1933-34 " La Mesange Et L'Hirondelle " André Antoine 1920 " La Fille De L'eau " Jean Renoir 1924
The picture of Dorian Slade	Although a remake of a Hitchcock's celebrated silent movie , the 1944 version compares favorably with it . The conclusion is different from Hitchcock's who had " the wrong man " concept in mind . Laird Cregar gives a tormented performance , which often reminds me of Peter Lorre's " M " . John Brahm uses him with an absolute skill , working like a painter with shadow and light . Merle Oberon was never as beautiful as here . Snatches of " Beauty and the Beast " and " Phantom of the opera " occasionally surface . Oberon plays an actress who performs on stage French cancan and sings a little saucy song half in English half in French ( " Un Petit Je Ne Sais Quoi " " C'est Chic " ) And the Ripper kills the actresses , not the prostitutes as he usually does in the other versions .
If you've got one hour and a half to lose . . . . .	. . . you can do worse than watch this intriguing film . The story only lasts six hours but do not panic : it's not a six-hour flick ! A tour de force Alex Joffé will pull off in his 1957 film " les Fanatiques " everything happens in real time like in Wise's " set-up " and later in Varda's " Cleo De Cinq à Sept " . A traveler gets out of his train and in the station , he is mistaken for an ambassador . We know nothing about him , not even his name . Some of his lines might make us think he's got no family . All we know is that he's got six hours to waste , between two trains . His chauffeur drives him to his desirable mansion where everything seems to go wrong . He's been away for five years , but it's a bit unlikely that his whole family welcomes him as their husband / father / master . His missus is sour-tempered , his daughter ( Dany Robin ) is in a love with a shady pianist while her brothers are fighting for the musician's sister ( they are actually husband and wife and crooks at that ) . His chamber maid ( Paulette Dubost ) cheats on her hubby ( the butler ) with a gendarme . The " new " ambassador will be the providential guardian angel and succeed in settling all the problems of the house . And he and his " wife " celebrate their silver wedding while a telegram signals that the true " His Excellency " is about to arrive in half an hour . " Wait for me , I'll be back soon " the strangers says before leaving . Two sinister-looking men are loitering around . . . . What was a comedy with now and then bitter touches would turn into a tragedy . . . . The ending will take you by surprise and gives the movie an eerie final . Definitely worth watching .
Take a walk with John Huston . . .	. . . . through the MIddle Ages in France . A voice over warns us : this is the story of a boy and a girl . Something has begun ( the Hundred Years War ) : they have not seen the beginning and they will not see the end . Who did anyway ? It takes place in France and it was not meant to be realistic ; its closest relatives are arguably Bergman's " the seventh seal " ( 1957 ) and Marcel Carné's " les Visiteurs du soir " ( 1942 ) . The three works are fables , the MIddle-Age being an alibi - , and the three of them feature a stunning ending : the dance macabre in the Bergman's work , the hearts still beating in stone in Carné's and the " return to the sea " in this one . Many of the permanent features of the great director emerge in " Walk " : the odd pair ( Assaf Dayan is childlike , naive and chivalrous whereas Huston - who was only eighteen - seems a mature woman who still believes in a society which would survive till 1789 ! those who fight , those who pray and those who work ) , the absurdity of any quest ( what's good going to Paris ? the heroine says . What's good escaping again ? ) , the presence of death ( which predates Huston's last film - the Dead - by fifteen years ; and A . Huston is in that film too ) , the stranglehold religion had on the minds and on the souls . The 1965-1975 years were a period of barren inspiration for Huston , they say , but it did provide at least two masterworks : the underrated overlooked " Reflection in a golden eye " which is looked upon as a classic in France and which was very faithful to McCullers ' novel and the grandiose " Man who would be king " . " A walk with Love and Death " is second only to these , being more original than " fat city " and beating hands down the harmless " sinful Davy " and the muddled " Kremlin letter " and " Mackintosh Man " . Beautiful luminous cinematography .
Yves Boisset , the political director .	The Algeria war was a taboo subject for about ten years . Then at the beginning of the seventies , came Claude Berri's " le pistonné " , Yves Boisset's " RAS " and the best of them " avoir 20 ans dans les Aurès " by René Vautier . Boisset's movie is a good work which , although his characters may seem stereotyped ( there's a commie , a pacifist , an anarchist , a sadistic warrant officer . . . ) , still deeply touches the audience today . Some scenes are very well directed ; the riot in the station where the crowd tries to stop the train , the brothel in a tent in the desert . . The most satisfying part is the second one , because of Philippe Leroy's sensational part of commandant Lecoq . This is a clever officer . He tries to treat his men as men , to leave them the right to argue , in a nutshell he's a human soldier although he seems as cold as ice . . . . . and the commie ( Jacques Weber ) quickly realizes that he is the most dangerous of them all . . . Can there be a clean war ? a human soldier ? A noble cause ? The final pictures are an act of rebellion , and the audience sides with the deserter ( Jacques Spiesse ) A beautiful song ( Leny Escudero ) opens the movie .
happiness in books through Marie	Possible spoilers . . . In the evening , Constance reads the novel " the reader " . She likes this novel so much that she ends up identifying with the heroine of the novel , Marie . Her job is to read several pages of any book to her customers including a disabled teenager called Eric , a stressed businessman or a little girl whose name is Coralie . . . Michel Deville , the director transmits us the joy and the comfort her main character brings to her customers reading pages of Baudelaire , Carroll or Marguerite Duras . Marie thanks to her nice voice , her passion of reading , her shiny presence make people happy and eventually makes the spectator happy . In a way , like " the hairdresser's wife " ( 1990 ) , a beautiful movie by Patrice Leconte , " la lectrice " is one of these rare films where you smile during almost all the projection . It is the opportunity for Miou Miou to find one of her very best roles too and she offers us a delightful composition . She's the real major asset of the film . " La Lectrice " is a smart , poetic movie with sparkling dialogs and ingenious sequences where the pleasure of words joins the pleasure of pictures . Another good point : a rightly chosen classical music mainly used in the moments where you see Marie walking down the streets of Arles between two reading sessions . The music gives the movie an impression of lightness and well-being . Besides , I feel that everything here breathes joy of living and even if the end of the movie remains a little dark ( Marie by refusing to read an extract from a Sade novel is becoming jobless ) , we can detect a message of hope in Constance's intention of becoming a reader : reading must be conserved in a society where books occupy a less and less important place . Michel Deville's movie won the Louis Delluc price in 1988 . It was only fair .
A forgotten little gem	" Nez de Cuir " is virtually forgotten in France today and it's really a pity , for it is probably Allégret's sleeper . The black and white cinematography is dazzling : a lot of scenes take place in the forest and we really feel its atmosphere , hundred-year - old trees , brooks , where men go hunting with hounds or walk through the trees to hide their secret liaisons . When the characters venture into a dangerous place or when their suffering grows too hard , Allégret films them in the middle of the night : Nez de Cuir helping Judith come into her mansion , the hero in the monastery where hooded monks walk along the dark corridors . A gentleman was disfigured during Napoleon's wars . He does not believe in God anymore , and , behind a mask , he multiplies his love affairs . Allégret's cynicism , which was present in " Manèges " , comes back tinged with romanticism . Jean Marais , a thespian extraordinaire , regains the desperate accents of " la Belle et la Bête " . Cocteau's influence anyway hangs over the whole movie . There's something magic , mysterious in the air : the ball where the aristocrats , a social class which repeats its pathetic etiquette , are welcoming the " survivor " ; the meeting near the pond when Judith confesses her love to the hero ; the dark bedroom where the doctor ( Massimo Girotti ) treats him ( " It's only your face ! You can walk , ride a horse , me , says the doctor , War made me an eunuch ! ) Hunting with hounds becomes a transparent metaphor . Once a triumphant man who would seduce every woman in sight , the hero was caught out at his own game like the deer tracked down by the dogs in the river . The score during the cast and credits is a fanfare of hunting horns . Recommended .
The gypsy and the gentleman	The fact that this movie is not granted even one star in the " Guide Des Films " speaks volumes about what " modern " critics are still thinking of the Pre-Nouvelle Vague cinema . That there are three comments on it and that they are ALL positive prove that there is , sometimes , justice in the universe . Ingmar Bergman himself was a trainee during of the filming of " Singoalla " and it might have inspired him some aspects of his own " the seventh seal " . Bergman liked French directors who were / are despised by the N . W . highbrows : Andre Cayatte and mainly Julien Duvivier he adored . Now for the movie : first of all , it is a good movie , even a splendid one regarded in context . Christian-Jaque , when he teamed up with Pierre Véry could not do wrong . Inspired by old Nordic legends , there are echoes of Edgar Allan Poe in Véry's screenplay , principally in the first thirty minutes ( " Metzengernstein " and " The Fall of the House of Usher " . A tale of love , death and fate between a young noble whose ancestors died in their prime and a fiery gypsy . Michel Auclair gives a brilliant performance , almost Shakespearian ( as he was also a stage actor , he must have played " Hamlet " ) , displaying romanticism , cynicism and madness . The cinematography by Christian Matras is very dark and the characters and the landscapes seem to be wrapped in a shroud . Black silhouettes move in a desolation land . A couple walks across a fortress where everyone is dead , some kind of Noire " Sleeping Beauty " . Every character has his double : the gypsy and the fair lady Erland marries , the two children , Erland's mother and the old gypsy woman , both not forgiving the lovers their treason , Erland and Assim , the priest and his heathen counterpart , the gypsies ' patriarch . Like this ? try these . . . . " L'Eternel Retour " , Jean Delannoy / Jean Cocteau , 1943 " Les Visiteurs Du Soir " , Marcel Carné , 1942 . " Sortilèges " , Christian - Jaque , 1944
Poor thing !	The precedent user was surprised by the happy ending . First thing to bear in mind is that it is a novel by Alphonse Daudet transferred to the screen . And as this novel was partly autobiographic , the screenplay could not modify it . . Like in the novel , the most interesting part is the first one : as his family was broke , Daniel Eyssette had to work as a supervisor in a school . This was inspired by Daudet's salad days as he was himself a supervisor . The marvelous scene when Daniel tells his " little " pupils about the misfortunes of Jeannot Lapin ( Johnny Rabbit ) has been developed with good results ; the arrogant marquis and his horrid son are present too ; so is the slick fencing master who takes advantage of Daniel's poetic skills . The second part is not as endearing , because Maurice Cloche did not completely succeed in making us feel the love between the two brothers . Daniel called his beloved brother " my mother Jacques " . Fortunately , this second part is dominated by Arletty , as Irma Borel ( Borel means Bourreau ( = torturer ) , says Daniel ) , who steals every scene she's in as usual . Although her presence on the screen does not exceed 15 min , she makes all those minutes count . Like the secondary school staff or the fencing master , Irma Borel laughs at this poor boy , who , like the good vicar said , will stay a child for life . Robert Lynen had already portrayed another poor boy , " Poil de Carotte " ( = Carotte top ) in Duvivier's second version of the novel by Jules Renard in 1932 .
parental advisory	This is another topic which has been extremely used in cinema : a young man who wishes to marry his girlfriend but first he's got to ask her parents the permission . And sometimes things don't go as they are expected . . . By making this movie , it's clear that the director Jay Roach gave the actors a free hand perhaps so as to try to compensate an unremarkable plot . The success of the movie rests on their shoulders . I would grant a special award to Ben Stiller and of course to Robert De Niro who shows that as an actor he's always at ease and excellent after all these years spent in the cinema . Of course , we're obliged to recognize that the humor isn't always subtle , certain characters are nearly stereotyped ( Owen Wilson ) and the sequence where De Niro blames Stiller for not being honest whereas honesty isn't his strong point appears quite conventional . As Jack Lemmon said in " Some like it hot " ( 1959 ) : " Nobody's perfect " . But there are quite a lot of funny situations and hilarious gags . So , a mastered topic that gives a spirited comedy .
A muddled affair .	Despite its clichés - the private is obligatory a divorced man , the plaster on his nose directly comes from Polanski's " Chinatown " , " une affaire privée " has intellect , atmosphere and even restrained emotion ( Aurore Clement's two scenes are moving ) going for it . The first hour is even intriguing , sometimes recalling some famous works such as " Laura " and more obscure flicks such as " Sylvia " . The director , who is also the writer multiplies the characters at such a speed it's very hard to catch up with the plot , and in the second part , everything seems to fall apart , well before the implausible de rigueur final unexpected twist ( we think here of David Fincher's " the game " and " fight club " ) . But the final cast and credits , for once is worth a watch : it displays all the characters one by one , with a strange smile on their face , almost disturbing , as if they were telling us " You ' ve been had " . Despite of its flaws , " une affaire privée " deserves to be watched .
Le Dernier Tournant .	Pierre Chenal's last hurrah-although not his last movie - , it's easily the best of the four thrillers he made when he was back from Argentina . " Jeux Dangereux " the precedent year suggested a return to form for a director who made interesting film noirs in the thirties and a masterpiece in the forties ( " La Foire Aux Chimères " ) . All promises were fulfilled in " La Bete A L'Affut " . There are two apparently distinct plots : - A cop's widow ( Françoise Arnoul ) is through with love and she spends her time collecting money for the orphans of the Police , abetted by a bunch of snobs and false friends . Unfortunately the person who was in charge of the money is assaulted and the money is gone . . Might this respectable notable of the town be the stealer , after feigning an aggression ? - A warden has two inmates do some repairs in his house . But he's got a too pretty wife . Two of the men are killed in mysterious circumstances and the survivor , one of the prisoners ( Henri Vidal ) takes refuge in the widow's desirable mansion . Love begins to grow between them but is the man a victim of fate as he claims to be ? The screenplay is particularly smart as the two stories meet in the last minutes . There's also a grandiose finale in a lighthouse , with scenes to rival the best of Jacques Tourneur . Henri Vidal was perhaps never better than here and his pairing with sexy Françoise Arnoul was really a good one . The last scene was particularly harrowing when you know that Vidal was to pass away in December 1959 , leaving Belmondo and Delon a clear field . NB : Henri Vidal was disappointed with the roles he was given . He wanted to make movies with Carné , Clouzot , Allégret and Delannoy and his fine physique went against him .
Wonderful Robert Donat !	A first-class actor , playing a character from his youth to an old man , with the same talent : he is as convincing as the mischievous boy who takes photographs unbeknown to his boss as the old man who tries to save the seventh art from the moneychangers in the Temple . The film has an unusually inventive construction : it is roughly made of two flashbacks , but the first one takes place after the second one . " The magic box " tells the story of a pioneer of the cinema who died in dire straits ( " that's the price for a seat for pictures " ) His destiny resembles that of Georges Méliès who ended his life selling candies in a railway station and who never complained about his fate . Geniuses often die unnoticed . The cinematography is splendid with tasteful colors , the dialog does not forget humor ( Donat : " Enjoy yourselves ! Schell : " We're going to the church ! ! " ) , and there are very powerful scenes : the concert where Schell sings a moving solo " Where is he ? I know not ! I know not ! " ; an ecstatic Donat showing his film to a constable . The cast is incredibly various and includes such luminaries as Laurence Olivier , Margaret Rutherford , Peter Ustinov , Stanley Holloway and more , all in supporting parts or even often cameos . How prophetic the pioneer's last words were !
the cheats	It's generally an accepted fact that Marcel Carné's 1936-1946 movies are masterpieces and it's considered polite to say that the rest are mediocrities . This is an unfair opinion : at least , two of the latter era are eminently watchable : " Thérèse Raquin " , his best post-war work , and " les tricheurs " ( the cheats ) . There's a strange evolution from the Prevert golden hour to " les tricheurs " : in " les enfants du paradis " " quai des brumes " or " le jour se lève " , true love is thwarted by the villains . In " les tricheurs " true love does not exist anymore : we deal with a bunch of young people who believe in nothing ; falling in love would be incongruous for this youth . The adults are not the villains at all : Mic's brother and mother are kind people , but she is beyond their command . Very few grown-ups appear anyway . During two hours , the characters do not stop playing around , dancing , listening to jazz records ( a music which was not still part of the bourgeois culture ) , and heavily drinking . When two of them discover they care for each others , it will be too late . The cast is rather good , Laurent Terzieff as an existentialist cynic and Andréa Parisy as a rich kid are the stand-outs . On the other hand , Pascale Petit and mainly Jacques Charrier ( who married Brigitte Bardot the same year as " les tricheurs " ) do not possess the ambiguity their parts ask for . They are all smile , too sweet and to nice to be believable . Oddly , " les tricheurs " was labeled " nouvelle vague " ! When you know what the priests of this cinema school ( the likes of Godard ) thought of Carné , it's really a good joke . But this disenchantment you feel throughout the whole movie is really disturbing .
Jungleland	This is not my kind of movie , but " the warriors " sustained my interest till the very end . The characters are not very interesting but the sensational use of night landscapes is absolutely mind-boggling , with those desert streets , those saving subway stations and those parks where it's dangerous to venture after dark , as Simon and Garfunkel sing . More than the retreat of the 10 , 000 after Cyrus ' s death , the long trip back to Coney Island makes me think of an Odyssey in miniature , with its descent into Hell ( the subway tunnel ) , its mermaids ( the girls who invite the warriors ) and its Circe ( the woman in the park ) . The DJ ( we only see her lips ) provides the antique chorus and gives the movie an eerie touch . Recommended
The glass house .	Joel Santoni has made a handful of movies theatrically released . " Mort un dimanche de pluie " was his last work before he went to make TV movies . It's also his best and one of the rare French thrillers of the eighties which seems to go somewhere . Like in the ( much inferior ) American " the glass house " ( 2001 / I ) , an architect ( Bacri ) and his wife ( Garcia ) live in a luxury transparent house with their daughter . Enter a strange couple , they have a daughter too : he is an one-armed man the father hires as a gardener ( ! ) ; his spouse will be the daughter's nanny ( who predates Rebecca DeMornay's famous part by half a decade ) ; and the sinister couple's offspring is an absolute half-wit whose only pastime is to play a child's music box : these notes become infuriating after a while . It seems that the man lost his arm when he was working on a building site and that the architect has something to do with it . Then it becomes a bloody violent story involving child molestation , blackmail , murders and madness . The first hour is sometimes remarkable , building a tension , a rising anxiety in the isolated mansion where the rain never stops falling . Only the scenes in the studio where Garcia works get in the way , displaying a black singer who epitomizes the worst of the eighties music , and breaking the malefic spell . The last third is less satisfying , verging on horror flicks such as " Friday the 13th " or even " the shining " . But there are strokes of inspiration : Nicole Garcia , running in the night in a red dress , the shrew climbing in a water tower with the two girls , or the poor idiot shedding a tear . " Mort un dimanche de pluie ' has fallen into oblivion : it's all the more unfair as its ending is not what we generally expect when a whole " nice " family is involved .
Harassment .	A cross between " la meilleure façon de marcher " and " ladri di biciclette " ? Perhaps so . . In 1976 , Claude Miller made " la meilleure façon de marcher " , his best movie , where he pitted a romantic shy young man ( Patrick Bouchitey ) against a strong vulgar macho ( the late Patrick Deweare ) in the " no exit " of a holiday camp ; Here , Le Guay shows two men in an unusual environment : movies which take place in a factory are very rare . A worker , a loudmouth , treats one of his colleagues as a punching ball when he discovers he's not fond of putting pictures of naked women on the door of his locker : blowing hot and cold , sometimes he bullies and humiliates him , and sometimes he pretends to be his pal . LIttle by little , the victim , who is a " normal " human being , begins to think he's " different " and does not know where he stands anymore . But we soon discover that the " villain " is not exactly the self-confident brute he seems to be . The tension between the two men rises , since . . . his son , after an incident after a basketball game , finds out what happens to his father : he feels humiliated , and the father does not want to explain anything to him ( the connection with " ladri di biciclette " ) . And the adolescent begins to grow away from him , fascinated by this he-man , who does body building . . . . " Trois huit " is a very interesting French film . It could have been an inane slapstick comedy , it's a subtle intimate drama which I recommend .
20 years after .	" Les fantômes du chapelier " , very well received at the time of release , still stands as Chabrol's best movie in the eighties , though certain aspects of its premise have undergone some reassessment . Seen today , the movie displays flaws that were hardly noticeable 20 years ago . First of all , Michel Serrault overplays : his over-the - top performance , once lauded , seems now exasperating and throws the movie off balance . ( I wonder what Chabrol's other favorite , Michel Bouquet , would have done in this part ) . This imbalance is increased by the fact that Charles Aznavour's character is not present enough on the screen . Aznavour gives a wonderful portrayal of an Armenian émigré , whom bourgeois Serrault enjoys humiliating and demeaning . With hindsight Aznavour beats Serrault hands down . The problem with " les fantômes du chapelier " is that it recalls other superior movies : bourgeois impunity had always been treated by Chabrol himself during his 1967-1973 heyday ( notably : " la femme infidèle " , " la rupture " " juste avant la nuit " " docteur Popaul " ) , but also long before him : Henri Decoin's " non coupable " ( 1946 ) and " la verite sur Bebe Donge " ( 1952 ) : in the 1946 film , the intention is much clearier and scarier than in Chabrol's 1982 effort , and , anyway , Serrault is no match for Michel Simon . We can also mention George Lautner's " le septième juré " . " Les fantômes du chapelier " has an eerie side , verging on fantastic , but , again , there's the rub : let's face it , it looks like some kind of " psycho " of which the secret would have been be revealed sooner . Something intriguing : the camera often shows a " Ben Hur " poster in the neighborhood . A tribute to William Wyler is dubious from a " nouvelle vague " family director , but who knows ? See it anyways . Its several incredible moments will make it worth your while . For Charles Aznavour and for Chabrol's always absorbing depiction of a small town .
Everything is for the best in the best of all possible worlds	The script writers have transposed the action of Voltaire's famous novel in the to the twentieth century , essentially the forties and the fifties . By doing so , they did not make it realistic for all that : Carbonneaux's movie remain a fable faithful to the writer's spirit . Do not look for historical accuracy here : it's a mad story where the writers found good equivalents of the horrors depicted by Voltaire ( particularly the horror of war ) . It does not always works , but when it works , the lines are really funny and Jean-Pierre Cassel is ideally cast as Candide who , in the worst situations , always shares the philosophy of his master Pangloss " everything is for the best in the best of all possible worlds " , perfect paraphrase of " it's an ill wind that blows nobody any good " or " every cloud has a silver lining " . The cast is a who's who of the French cinema : Michel Simon is a military man , who rejoices every time a new war breaks out ; Daliah Lavi , who already played opposite Cassel in Gance's " Cyrano et d'Artagnan " is Mademoiselle Cunégonde , Candide's only love , who is raped after the massacre of her parents and later ends up a harem in Morocco ; Also featured are Pierre Brasseur , Michel Serrault - then teaming up with Jean Poiret - , Nadia Gray , Louis de Funès ( you read well ) as a man of the gestapo , Jacqueline Maillan , Jean Richard and more . . . Like this ? try these . . . . . . . " Fanfan la Tulipe " Christian - Jaque 1951 " Forrest Gump " Robert Zemeckis 1994 " La vita è bella " Roberto Benigni 1997
Dying of love . .	George Lacombe's best film " Six Hommes Morts " was a Clouzot screenplay ( from a S . A . Steeman novel ) . Clouzot's influence shows in " les Condamnés " : no character to side with , a gloomy atmosphere , gossips , anonymous letters signed " signed an " ill-wisher " " . The first scene is a celebration : a couple ( Fresnay and Yvonne Printemps , husband and wife in real life ) throws a party , and everybody thinks they have been the happiest family for twenty years . But they lost their only child . And the woman is no longer in love with her man ; she's fallen for a younger doctor ( Roger Pigaut ) . The cheated husband wants to pick up the pieces and he thinks that , by taking his wife to the places they used to be happy , he can rekindle their love . But it's too late . The wife heeds not his plea . Pierre Fresnay is the stand-out : he rarely looked more jaded than in " les Condamnés " ( the condemned persons )
Forbidden games	Pierre Chenal was a minor but interesting director who in the late thirties was the first to transfer to the screen " the postman always rings twice " . His masterpiece was " la foire aux chimères " ( all Erich Von Stroheim's fans MUST see that work ) where he introduced an extraordinary dreamlike atmosphere which we also find in inferior efforts such as " la maison du maltais " or " l'alibi " . " Les jeux dangereux " seems realistic at first sight . Actually , it's almost as offbeat , as unusual as the aforementioned films . " Game " is the keyword and when he puts the pieces of the jigsaw together again that the private eye realizes that it's a child's game ( the water pistol is the best " clue " ) . A teenage girl ( a beautiful Pascale Audret , singer Hugues Aufray's sister , she resembles Audrey Hepburn ) , whose brother is in jail because he has shot a policeman , tries to get him the best lawyer . So helped by her pack , she kidnaps an adolescent - poisoned by his mother's protection and whose father is a stingy hateful bourgeois-and they lock him in a cellar . So begins the game which will sometimes verge on tragedy . These youngsters ( with the exception of Sami Frey's character , the only one who acts as a " man " so to speak ) . Everyone plays , and after all , the victim himself plays the violin , plays cards with his jailer . The adults are not models for them anyway , being mean like the rich kid's father , his over-possessive mother or the two-bit detective ' s embittered wife . Even the love story between Audret and her prisoner makes sense . And even if this is a rather happy end , the establishment has won anyway . But the private eye's last words ( it's my reward ) restore our faith in grown - ups
The bad and the beautiful ( continued )	A film of love and hate . Between the fallen actor and his aging director ; between the director and his hysterical wife ; between Carlotta and her former husband ; between the young actor and the old one . In a nutshell , an intense melodrama in the vein of these Minnelli extravaganzas ( " some came running " " home from the hill " and particularly " the four horsemen of the Apocalypse " - remember the famous scene where the whole family is gathered around the table while a storm is raging - ) . Minnelli had already broached Hollywood before in " the bad and the beautiful " the ending of which was one of the most ferocious I know . Excerpts of this 1952 work are used here with stunning results . Douglas watching himself when he was supposed to be young and famous recalls Gloria Swanson watching her silent movies ( with her former director Von Stroheim now her butler ) in " Sunset Boulevard " . But it's Cinecitta now . A new Italian cinema is rising and Minnelli is aware of that . He had probably seen Fellini's and Antonioni's works and their influence emerge sometimes : Rosanna Schiaffino ' s character reminds me of Anita Eksberg in " la dolce vita " ; the posh receptions have an Antonioni atmosphere ( " la notte " ) . On the other hand , Douglas's mad drive might have influenced Fellini for his segment of " spirits of the dead " , " Tobby Dammit " ( 1968 ) . But if the movie has a message , it's this one : If you want somebody you can trust , trust yourself . Stop hiding in the movie theaters ( or in the films ) , as Douglas's character says to Schiaffino on the beach , and get a life !
like father like son	A young trainee chef Sauveur ( Guillaume Canet ) learns the existence of his father he never knew Bertrand ( Jean Yanne ) . The latter lives thanks to two-bit tricks and swindles . At first hostile to this intrusion , he ends up associating his son and learns him the tricks of the trade until one day Sauveur falls in love with Sandra , a young photograph who is their next victim . . . Rémi Waterhouse was Patrice Leconte's scenarist to whom he gave help for his celebrated " Ridicule " ( 1996 ) and also the female French André Cayatte , Yannick Bellon : " la Triche " ( 1984 ) , " les Enfants Du Désordre " ( 1989 ) and " l'Affût " ( 1992 ) . Generally , scenarists don't have the reputation to make worthy films . " Je Règle Le Pas Sur Le Pas Sur Le Pas De Mon Père " seems to illustrate this trend once again . We aren't in uncharted waters for this is the umpteenth version of a young man who discovers he has a father who lives through shady business and wants to know him better . Why bother to watch this common piece of work ? Because this little black comedy would be anonymous without its two central performances . Guillaume Canet and Jean Yanne are here to make the viewer stay until the end where there is an unexpected twist in the amount of the story . Jean Yanne's cynical , disillusioned personality reflects the deliberately dull cinematography Waterhouse used for his film . Even if the film is most of the time banal , there are real efforts from the director to give a stylish , personal work : from the backdrop that depicts these little people in little houses living in the North of France who are so naive to often well found dialogs . There's nothing new under the sun in this variation father-son but watch it for Yanne and Canet .
the unlikely marriage of " Pulp Fiction " ( 1994 ) and " Evil Dead " ( 1981 )	Sourced from a story Quentin Tarantino penned in his youth and dusted off in the wake of the " Pulp Fiction " impact , this Robert Rodriguez effort achieves this incredible hybrid . I must say I am uneven about the two authors of these credentials . For Tarantino , I thoroughly enjoyed " Kill Bill : Volume I and II " ( ) and at a pinch " Reservoir Dogs " ( 1992 ) but " Pulp Fiction " isn't in my straitjacket of the most memorable movies made in the nineties . As for Sam Raimi , the " Evil Dead " saga hasn't got a prominent place in my favorite horror movies but " a Simple Plan " ( 1998 ) and the adventures of Peter Parker / Spider-Man gave me a positive side from him . I could have the same judgment about Rodriguez himself : I saw " the Faculty " ( 1999 ) when it was theatrically released and I forgot all about it . Ditto for " Sin City " ( 2005 ) which was visually a black splendor but I don't remember much about the story . On the positive side , " From Dusk Till Dawn " entertained me until the last shot . It's cut in two distinct parts . The first one has more the look of a road-movie imbued with thriller with stunts , shootings , corpses galore and a dash of suspense . It's the part I favor the most . The second half of the film changes territory and takes a leap into the gore movie sourced from the eighties with blood , special effects to satisfy the genre . There is also a little of George A . Romero's masterwork " the Night of the Living Dead " ( 1968 ) and I do think this part is weaker than the first . The action becomes a bit sluggish and special effects are sometimes too intrusive . But perhaps , it was an inescapable rule to this kind of story . The amount is a film rooted in two different cinematographic genres and if it's a little hard to swallow , it means to jump on a genre while jettisoning the other , Rodriguez's effort has positive things in its contents to have a good time . Sequences are shot with care and shrewdness like the very first one . Like in " Reservoir Dogs " , we won't properly see the bloody break-in but just verbal facts from the characters and the TV . It is also permitted to hail Tarantino for his sharp dialogs . My favorite lines are when George Clooney and Tarantino take Harvey Keitel and his son hostage and Juliette Lewis arrives in the room from the swimming pool : - What's , um , going on ? - We're having a bikini contest and you just won . Later in the van on the road that leads to Mexico : - Where are you taking us ? - Mexico - What's in Mexico ? - Mexicans . Black humor shouldn't be neglected like the sequence when the journalist says the increasing number of killed people after the hold-up . And the actors seem to have fun as much as we do , notably Clooney and Tarantino in psychopathic killers who shoot first and ask themselves questions then . This B movie won't cater for all tastes for evident reasons but as it is painstakingly made as a whole , the alliance Rodriguez / Tarantino paid off well and it's a film to which I would return with pleasure .
Gone with the war .	Actually the right year is 1939 . The title ( lost paradise ) tells it all . Like many works of the era , " paradis perdu " is an omen of the impending storm about to break . Abel Gance had already warned everybody with his remake of " j'accuse " two years before . " Paradis perdu " is not really a manifesto , although it does include WW1 sequences , it's actually a melodrama . Like " j'accuse " it features two distinct parts . People generally agree that the first part , which describes the building of the " paradise " and the brief hours of happiness , is the strongest . The second part moves too fast : the daughter grows up overnight and there's a subplot ( a love affair between the widower and a girl who is younger than his daughter ) which gets in the way . At least it allows Abel Gance to regain his famous grandiloquence for the last sequence which compares favorably with that of Sirk's " imitation of life " . Although Elvire Popesco is at the top of the cast , the real star is Micheline Presles who portrays both the wife and the daughter .
Too many spiders .	. . . this may account for the strange structure of the plot and the relative short appearance of Lauren Bacall . Strange how this movie should begin with a conversation between a mentally sick young man ( John Kerr ) and one of the shrinks's wife ( Gloria Grahame ) . And what do they talk about ? Madness and Van Gogh . " The cobweb " was a true forerunner of " lust for life " in which Minnelli would depict the great painter's life . And if the message is not clear enough , the main subject of the movie , the bone of contention is the library draperies which the psychiatric hospital patients - who will get better whereas the staff won't ! - are ( or are not ) to decorate with their paintings . John Kerr , although a supporting character , is akin to many a Minnelli young hero : he does not know where he stands like the young man of " tea and sympathy " ( another Kerr part with another Kerr ( Deborah ) as co-star ) who searches for a - sexual-identity , like Theron ( George Hamilton ) in " home from the hill " is ill-at-ease in a disturbed family , like Davie ( Hamilton again ) the young actor in search of a model in " two weeks in another town " . And let's not forget that in " four horsemen of the Apocalypse " , Karl Boehm ' s character finds his way in Nazism ! And John Kerr's character , in " cobweb " is OUR victim , says shrink Widmark , a victim of our meanness , our tensions , our quarrels . The hospital becomes a place where they are always at each other's throat , a society in miniature , this society where Vincent Van Gogh ( the young patient may be Minnelli's sketch ) will live . ( strange future ) Stephen Harvey's book claims that 30 minutes were edited out . During almost two hours , the movie revolves around draperies - the last picture is sheer genius : it's maybe a young VVG sleeping under the ugly draperies . The movie actually belongs to the sixties and sometimes recalls the abstract plots of Antonioni . " Two weeks in another town " would show that MInnelli had completely ingested the new Italian cinema . Widmark's character is , on the other hand , one of the positive heroes of Minnelli . Like George Peppard in " Home from the hill " who reconstructs a family , like Kirk Douglas in " two weeks . . . " who comes to term with himself , like Glenn Ford in " four horseman . . . " who sacrifices his life to fight Nazism , like Sinatra in " some came running " who understands finally what true love means ( McLaine's moving prostitute ) , he understands that all this hassle ( be it domestic fight with his wife or the draperies ) builds a cobweb where one of their patients gets caught . If " cobweb " is somewhat disappointing , when compared to all the other works I mention , outside of the " producers's cut " , it's because the characters - who are numerous , and played by veterans like Gish or newcomers like Strasberg , fresh from her father's actor's studio - do not have room enough to shine . This hospital is not big enough for all of them . But you are going to tell me that if it was , then there would not be any quarrel . And no plot . I wish we could see " cobweb " as Minnelli wanted it to be someday .
Even in an epic , Ray will be Ray .	Hats off to Epdean , the user who did the hard task of letting us know about the situation in China when our film begins . I wish every " historical " movie had an user like him . What about the movie ? It ' s perhaps not as absorbing as " Dr Zhivago " ( it's important to notice that anyway Robert Bolt took liberties with Pasternak's novel ) , but it's a very worthwhile epic , with a very good cast including David Niven , Charlton Heston and Ava Gardner , the most beautiful woman Hollywood ever knew . But the best performance comes from Flora Robson as the empress , a spider on her cobweb . The lines are above average : " we're in the country of poppy and we can't get any morphine ! " and China in " 55 days " is less " chocolate box " than in " Inn of sixth happiness " . What about Ray ? They said he was always drunk during all the shooting . I can feel his touch even there ! Teresa's character is in search of a family , as the heroes of " rebel without a cause " ( particularly Plato ) of " run for cover " " " they live by night " and more were . And as it often happens in Ray's movies , someone has to sacrifice his / her life so the others can go on : Mitchum in " lusty men " , Derek in " run for cover " Granger in " they live by night " Mineo in " rebel without the cause . . . . and who-you-know in " kings of kings " . Ava Gardner's death , while trying to bring food and medicine to the children will lead Heston to something he would probably not have thought of .
The ball chase .	At my time of writing , " échec au porteur " has a very low rating . It's too bad : people who ' ll give it a chance will not be disappointed . Gilles Grangier's fifties movies are almost all worthwhile . Okay the gangsters side - with Gert " Goldfinger " Froebe - as the leader is conventional . But all that remains is original : first of all , Serge Reggiani , the star , disappears very early in the story . Then the hero becomes a ball ( you read well ) which contains a bomb which will explode around 10PM . A child takes it , then he is sent to hospital ( and he wants to keep his ball with him ) . Captain Paul " Diabolique " Meurisse has got to find back the thing . A lot of characters are involved including Jeanne Moreau as Régianni's love . Recalls sometimes that Hitchcock short " Bang ! You're dead ! " where Bill ( ) y Mumy played with a true revolver . The last sequence , when the ball almost becomes a living thing , is worthy of a film noir master .
Railroad track blues .	Natalie Wood , giving one of her best performances , portrays a typical Williams heroine . Alva is an innocent sinner . She knows she's attractive , she teases every man around , but she has kept her childhood's dream , she's an immature character . she's akin to the girl of " the glass menagerie " . Alva hides her dream in a convert rail car which bears her own name , like the latter dreams her life away with her frail animals . All right , Laura is a pure young girl , Alva is not , by a long shot , but it does not make a big difference . Innocence , for Tennessee Williams is only a matter of heart . Alva might have been some kind of Blanche Du Bois too . Both are victims , both have a romantic dream , both pretend ( Natalie's red dress , Blanche's schlock jewels ) . I think Alma's arrival in New Orleans is a tribute to Kazan's " streetcar named desire " : as she gets out of the train , there's some smoke around . The over - possessive mother is also a constant in Williams ' universe . Alma's mother ( a magnificent Kate Reid ) recalls Mrs Venable in " suddenly last summer " . If Alma does not realize she's some kind of prostitute-Redford tells her so while they are hiding behind the bushes - , her mother resembles a madam in a brothel ( the boarding-house ) . It's Redford's character who will spoil the party . By revealing Alma who she really is , by telling her he's got no dream , by his social status , he's a man who lives in the material world . Many users noticed it was an ambiguous character : after all he comes to lay off railroad workers in this one-horse town which Alma longs to leave for broader horizons . The boarding-house and the tiny railway station are certainly a dead end for the heroine . And this car named " Alma " symbolizes a land where time stands still . When Alma leaves for New Orleans , James Wong Howe's wonderful camera becomes aerial with breathtaking high angle shots on the train . This is a rather talky movie , and it loses steam in the third part in New Orleans , but it sure did not deserve such a poor rating when so many talents are involved ( outside the already mentioned people , there's also Bronson and Ford Coppola - script writer - ) . It's the beginning of Pollack's heyday , when he was a genuine artist who gave us such major works as " Jeremiah Johnson " and " they shoot horses don't they ? " . A far cry from " Tootsie " or " the firm " .
star wars antithesis	In 1977 , George Lucas acceded to fame and fortune when " Star Wars " rode high all over the world . I can easily comprehend many viewers's enthusiasm about this epic saga while not sharing it . For me , " Star Wars " represents the turning point when science-fiction began to seriously regress from an artistic perspective . All Lucas ' efforts to create a mythology gave way to childish stories with monotonous , extravagant actions sequences . Most of " Star Wars " lovers forgot that prior to this cultural phenomenon and even before he embarked on a fruitful career as a producer , George Lucas had signed a personal , pessimistic science-fiction work that showed a more adult direction from him : " THX 1138 " ( 1971 ) . It depicts a humanity living under ground and one will never know the reasons that prompted these bald human beings all dressed in white to live beneath the surface of the earth . Its inhabitants are incapable to feel and live in an artificial way with pills and drugs as diets . This is a nightmarish universe , a mix of George Orwell and Philip K . Dick that Lucas presents us in which religion is of little help ( the scene when Robert Duvall has to " confess " is self-explanatory ) . Lucas ' making is very elaborated and captures the stifling atmosphere and the imprisonment that touches all these nameless human beings who can't feel anything and we're queasy while hearing these voices that keep on telling orders and these numbers that scroll on these computer screens . " 2001 : a Space Odyssey " ( 1968 ) was also among Lucas ' credentials because like in Stanley Kubrick's masterpiece , white is bright and the obsession of control are two central themes in both films . Some elements of the story will also be used in " Star Wars " like the vigilante robots who precede Dark Vader's white robot soldiers . But also , THX 1138's rebellious demeanor against an evil system or even the car chase at the end of the film . This was a promising practice run from a man who could have been a true auteur . But sadly , Lucas didn't persevere in that way . He said that he had two alternatives : either to elaborate entertaining films , either to make films destined to film libraries . He chose the first one with the results we all know don't we ?
Sophie's choice	Given the very poor users ' rating and given the fact that only a 70 min copy is available , it's doubtful people might want to see Jacqueline Audry's take on a child's book which is a classic in France ( in Russia I was told the young students who learn French frequently read the Comtesse de Segur's book , for this writer was born a Russian ) . The credits read " inspired by Segur's novel " so don't expect a faithful academic adaptation . Actually only the first twenty-five minutes come directly from the original story . The book was not that easy to transfer to the screen for it's not a linear story . Jacqueline Audry , instead of treating the chapters one after another-as Jean-Claude Brialy did in his late seventies listless adaptation - , blended several episodes : the doll , the tea , the donkey , etc . She added one character , Mademoiselle ( Marguerite Moreno ) , who epitomizes authority , punishment and submission . Madame de Rean , a not very kind character in the novel , became a sweet mother , under Mademoiselle's thumb . Jacqueline Audry , and it's the first thing to bear in mind , was the only female French director of the fifties . It was long before Agnes Varda . Only Ida Lupino dared to do what she did , and like Lupino , her main subject was woman and early feminism . It makes her work all the more precious to us now . I loved Segur's novels but they were reactionary to the core . Hence the second part which happens when Sophie has become an adult . It is probably the reason why people hate this movie . Cousin Paul , the virtuous boy , has turned into a revolutionary man , on the 1848 barricades . Sophie's mother being dead , Mademoiselle wants her to marry a notable's son . Audry's Sophie wants to venture off the beaten track . As the child , she was already a rebel . Unlike Segur's character she will not quiet down when she grows up . Audry laughs at the perfect little girls and their ridiculous song . The last picture is a transparent metaphor of woman's lib well before it's become trendy as well as a spoof on the Prince Charming myth .
one can do everything my bloke when one is in the police force !	I have sometimes written in some reviews about some Claude Chabrol's flicks that I didn't find " Poulet Au Vinaigre " a memorable work . However I watched it recently and it's not that bad after all . Of course , it is several notches below such incomparable works as " La Femme Infidèle " ( 1969 ) or " Le Boucher " ( 1970 ) but it remains thoroughly watchable . Congratulations to the English film distributors who found an equivalent for the translation of the French title into English . It is perfectly well translated . When in 1984 , Chabrol starts the preparation of this " Poulet Au Vinaigre " , he endured three fiasco in a row . The eighties didn't look a fruitful decade for him . " Le Cheval D'Orgeuil " ( 1980 ) got bogged down in a spate of clichés about Brittany and betrayed Pierre-Jakey Hélias ' book . " Les Fantômes Du Chapelier " ( 1982 ) , his first venture in Georges Simenon's universe was well received by French critics but hardly anybody went to see it . " Le Sang Des Autres " ( 1984 ) was a turgid and impersonal film in his spotty but riveting career . So , what could Chabrol do to get things back on an even keel and to be reconciled with both critics and his public ? Very simply , to cook them a typical Chabrolesque dish to the core with a minimum of money ( the filmmaker wanted to show that it was possible to shoot good films with a modest budget in times of inflation ) and time ( a few weeks of shooting were sufficient for him to shoot his film ) . Thus , he kept turning over the staple ingredients which made his hallmark recognizable . He needed the apparently peaceful scenery of a small provincial town . Here , he chose Forges-Les Eaux in Normandy which isn't very far from I live in Rouen ! The perfect backdrop for his story . Then , precisely a solidly structured story with several functions . First , to grab and entertain the audience and his fans with a certainly derivative but catchy storytelling . Louis Cuno is a timid postman who lives under her mother's thumb ( Stéphane Audran ) . They refuse to sell their house to a trio of perfidious , perverse bourgeois , the doctor Morasseau , the butcher Filiol and the notary Lavoisier ( Michel Bouquet ) who want to set up a momentous and shady estate business . As he is a postman , Louis gets information about this trio of upper-class people At night , Louis spies them and one night , he kills the butcher by pouring sugar in the essence of his car and the maverick inspector Lavardin ( Jean Poiret ) keeps on harassing him . . . Then , Delphine Morasseau , the doctor's wife seems to have absconded while Anna Foscarie ( Caroline Cellier ) a prostitute is found dead in a car crash . With his unconventional methods , Lavardin will find the truth . . . It is at this reading that we fully understand Chabrol's mainspring for the last function of his scenario and perhaps the most essential ingredient : to unearth skeletons in the closet of his trio of bourgeois and to shatter the respectability of the provincial bourgeoisie which has usually been Chabrol's trademark . He tapped it again with gusto here . But his scenario also encompasses a dash of psychology to better construe the persona of his characters and it gives more substance to his work . Chabrol served his film ( and his recipe ) with ingenious camera work too . It encompasses neat camera angles and fluid camera movements which can only rejoice the gourmets . To enable them to fully savor the film , Chabrol shot his story on an unhurried pace . There was also effort on the lighting and framing which are up to scratch to the aura the film conveys according to the circumstances . And the director didn't put aside his pronounced taste for gastronomy . The inspector Lavardin is nutty about paprika eggs . He has eaten 30 , 000 of them in his life ! At last , the chef Chabrol spiced up his work with a soupçon of deadpan humor essentially provided by the apparently nice Lavardin . By the way , is it innocuous humor ? One has to admit that Lavardin's methods to make the suspects speak aren't really reassuring . Maybe the cast contains a few little drawbacks . Lucas Belvaux is not bad but often bland . Pauline Laffont's acting is sometimes annoying . Jean Claude Bouillaud acts a caricatured character . But Stéphane Audran ( once Mrs Chabrol ) is excellent as usual . Like in " la Rupture " ( 1970 ) , she was Michel Bouquet's enemy . This is precisely Bouquet who dominates the cast at the level of the quality of the acting with of course Jean Poiret . In the end , the chef Chabrol concocted the audience and his fans an eatable even tasty " Poulet Au Vinaigre " which pleased a lot to the chef's connoisseurs . It was succulent enough to prompt Chabrol to do it again with a sequel which opened the next year : " Inspecteur Lavardin " ( 1986 ) . That said , Chabrol's " pièce De resistance " in the eighties came with the contemporary " Masques " ( 1987 ) which stood the test of time quite well .
All that Heaven will not allow . . . .	The story tales place in a small village in Provence where everybody should be happy . There are artists , painting in the streets , and people playing Pétanque ( bowls ) . . . . But the captain ( Von Stroheim ) warns us . . . No hope here . . . Violaine is seriously ill and soon she will die . Her parents try to conceal the harsh truth but one day she finds her medical file . She decides to make the best of what is left for her . She's in love with a failed writer whose wife is an alcoholic shrew . When the young man kills his wife ( an accident ) , Violaine who did not tell her love she was going to die , decides to leave clues which will accuse her . What's the matter if she is arrested ? She's got so little time to live anyway . . Music is splendid , never sad , never syrupy . But Edmond T Greville also uses the bells to stunning effects ! Ring them bell indeed . When Violaine finds out she is soon going to die , the bell is tolling outside ; when the detective questions Blaise the writer , or when he looks at the shoes of people passing by or when the lovers hide in the streets after Michèle's death , here come those bells again , sometimes mournful , sometimes joyful , sometimes warning the heroes that their days are numbered . Biggest flaw is the two flashbacks which are not really necessary and weaken the plot . The detective story does not hang that much well with the moving melodrama . But " l'envers du Paradis " , with its Sirkesque title , is a fine work of the French fifties . Like This ? try these . . . . La Foire aux Chimères Pierre Chenal 1946Pattes Blanches Jean Grémillon 1947
French falling down .	Bacri's character is sick and tired of his spouse , his work ( as a writer running out of ideas ) , his offspring , his doctor , his dentist , his friends , the whole world . Like Mickael Douglas in " falling down " , he goes off the rails : but whereas Schumacher's hero opts for violence , Bacri's character chooses a provocative way . He ' s sparing of gestures , but his sullen looks are priceless . He seems to live in another world , which he has built from start to finish from his shrink's watch which might have belonged to Kennedy ( hence the title ) . The scene on the boat - which features a very funny cameo by Jean-Claude Brialy - climaxes the movie , with its despise of the family values ( shall I bring back the wreath ? ) . A short movie ( about 80 minutes ) but delightfully unpolitically correct .
will , courage , determination and hope	Alice is 26 years old . She's a goods handler in a fish factory in Boulogne sur Mer . One day , she is fired for economic reasons . Obviously , this piece of news makes her sad but she doesn't get discouraged for all that . She decides to leave and to start a new life again in Lyon . So , she momentarily settles in a hotel there where she meets several people who support her thanks to their kindness and affection . Among them , there's Bruno , a young man at a loss who doesn't take a long time falling in love with her . For her first appearance in the cinema as a film-maker , Laetitia Masson decided to look into one of the major plagues in the end of the twentieth century : unemployment . Certain aspects of her film evoke Ken Loach's cinema ( who would have maybe appreciated it unless he already watched it ) and it stands out in a positive way . Unlike many movies which from a dark social reality weave a bleak and miserable atmosphere , this one conveys human warmth and comfort thanks to the characters ' good mood and liking ( especially the ones in the hotel that we can consider as a sort of refuge ) and enables to believe in a better future . Besides , Alice's character is of an exemplary courage . It's true , she isn't very much skilled , she's not sure about the future but she doesn't accept to be a loser and not to sink in despair is ready to accept any job to manage herself ( Sandrine Kiberlain is a real revelation and it's with this film that her career as an actress really began ) . The optimism towards which the film tends finds its best example in the last sequences since Alice has found a job as a waitress and shares a flat with her new boyfriend Bruno . " En avoir ( ou pas ) " is a sunbeam in a very cloudy sky , the flick that shows the way towards optimism for all the movies dealing with unemployment and if one day , you find yourself in a situation similar to Alice , try to follow her example . Anything goes and as Coldplay said in their album " Parachutes " ( 2000 ) : " everything's not lost . . . " .
Coming home	A very interesting movie by Bob Clark who has just passed away . Gore and special effects are kept to the minimum , the director and the screenplay focusing more on the family than on the dead man walking . Bob Clark renewed a theme which French Abel " Napoleon " Gance had broached in the silent era ( and remade as a talkie ) : " J'accuse " . Gance showed the dead soldiers rise from the grave and attack the profiteers of war . Too bad Clark did not follow suit and show the veteran attack those who sent him to war . . . but after all , it was this over possessive mother who made him join the army ( that'll make him a man ) . The parents ' responsiblity is obvious here . The love the mother feels for her dearest son verges on monstrous - and becomes really monstrous in the final scenes , in every sense of the term . An unusually inventive use of music creates a disturbing eerie atmosphere , a " something is not normal " feeling , some black humor ( the drive in ) , and the hero swinging in his chair like a robot . All that makes " Dead of Night " a movie worth watching . NB : Should not be mistaken for " Dead of night " ( 1946 ) a scary film made up of sketches . Like this ? Try these . . . . " Jacob's ladder " Adrian Lyne 1993 " The war at home " Emilio Estevez 1996
my little firm	Like its predecessor " Fred " ( 1997 ) , " ma Petite Entreprise " is in the same league : the world of workers in popular neighborhoods and the tricks the characters elaborate to get out of their distress . Pierre Jolivet finds again the same actor and one of his favorites Vincent Lindon for a role quite familiar to the one he held in the 1997 movie . Like " Fred " , Ivan has to manage himself to get out of a thorny situation . The main difference lies in the fact that in " Fred " , he was practically all alone but here , he receives a little help from his friends . Lindon acts the work alcoholic boss of a joinery and lives on a wild pace which made him estranged from his wife . But one day his world collapses for the workshop is burnt down . To avoid the definitive closure , he'll have to break the law . When the film reached the streets , the catchphrase was : " in life , trouble make people closer " . It was a well-appropriated one to grab the interest and to disregard any Cartesian logic in the relationships between the characters who one by one rally to Ivan . However , some of them were about to take advantage of the knotty stance Ivan was in . At first Sami ( Roschdy Zem ) , the one who lives with Ivan's former wife , then Maxime ( François Berléand ) and at last Charles ( Albert Dray ) . Jolivet found a supple dosage between the gritty depiction of the popular neighborhood , the dramatic situation which can worsen if Ivan can't quickly solve it and the droll solutions adopted with a dash of suspense ( the break-in in the insurance center ) and some unexpected turns in the story . The formula paid off well for " ma Petite Entreprise " drew many more viewers in the theaters than " Fred " . Jolivet's work garnered several nominations at the César ceremony in 2000 , notably in the Secondary Roles category and François Berléand was justifiably the winner . Here , Jolivet has no cause to be jealous of his English filmmakers peers in the domain of social cinema .
Girod's best since " le trio infernal " .	Francis Girod began his career with a scandalous movie : Romy Schneider , who was looked upon as a Madonna by most of the FRench audience became one the most disgusting criminals an actress had ever played . Since he watered down his wine and subsequent works were much more moderate ( " Lacenaire " " la banquière " ) when they were not drastic failures ( " descente aux enfers " " passage à l'acte " . " Mauvais genres " is a return to form for Girod . He has never been so nefarious since his debut . Two actors give stunning performances : Robinson Stevenin plays a transvestite , a part so difficult - he is on the screen from the beginning to the end - it's a miracle he could pull it off so brilliantly . But Richard Bohringer's cop is even more impressive : his character speaks in a croaking voice , close to a whisper . Meava the transsexual is probably the most humane character in the whole movie . The plot is so complex it will demand several viewings . A lot of elements interfere : a serial killer who kills male and female prostitutes , a transvestite whose father has just been arrested for pedophilia - which might or might not lead his son ( Stevenin ) whom he abused to lead such a life - ; the " sens interdit " ( one-way street ) gay club where you can see a drag act , the " twin duet " featured in Demy ' s " les demoiselles de Rochefort " ; elements of melodrama : the past of the characters recalls those endless novels from the nineteenth century when the characters did not know exactly who their father was ; and a love the hero feels for a so-called straight mover ( who's also a gigolo ) . But more than the story , it's the atmosphere which matters . Girod creates a destabilizing world which leaves the viewer panting for breath . And it's not sexist . The monsters are not necessarily the non-straights .
Rebel with a cause	The connection with James Dean ? In a short plan , we see Emilio Estevez toying with a teddy bear ( remember the first scene of Ray's " rebel without a cause " ) . Moreover , the main conflict is Estevez versus Sheen , father against son , as in " East of Eden " . The soldier has come home , and nobody has been able to communicate with him , even his sister ( a psychology student , what a derision ) . The mother , a crude matron ( a superb Kathy Bates ) , gets bogged down in nougatine , she ' s not able to understand that her values ( religion , family ) have become a thing of the past , specially for someone like his son whose innocence was betrayed . The father , an irresolute man , under his wife's thumb , although he tries hard to play the macho , wanted to make up for the mediocrity of his life . So he saved his " honor " by forcing his son to do his duty . The scene in which Estevez's hatred for his father explodes is very intense . The actor-director gives a restrained performance , interiorized , as Lee Strasberg's students used to do , and his final burst of anger is increased tenfold so .
Very entertaining melodrama .	Adapted from an obscure Dumas père novel , " I Fratelli Corsi " is a very good melodrama , which encompasses everything storybook means : two twin boys estranged from each other from the cradle , blood and passion , duels , abductions , treasons , far-fetched but action-packed screenplay , lots of characters , a classy villain ( Gerard Barray , later Duvernois / Senor TV in Amenabar's classic " abre los hoyos " remade as " Vanilla sky " ) . . There are even bits of supernatural , which is rather unusual in swashbuckler melodrama : déjà vu feelings , telepathy show up now and then along the movie , always with skill and taste . Filmed on location in Corse , where this somber story of vendetta takes place , it's worth a watch , just because they do not do movies like this one today . . . and when they try , they fail .
I'd like to be under the sea . . . .	. . . not in an octopus's garden , but in a huge cave beneath the waves . Henri Calef was an underrated director : after " Jericho " and " Les Chouans " , he achieved a hat trick with " La Maison Sous La Mer " . All of these movies deserve to be watched by people interested in the oldies of the French cinema , provided that they are not New Wave die-hards of course . Based on a Paul Vialar novel , the movie depicts the iron miners ' tough life ( they do not even have showers ) . The first ten minutes is almost documentary : silent scenes show the miners at work , then they return home or to the café where they talk solidarity ( " we've got to help our fellow man's widow , the bosses want to throw her out of her house " ) , women or trade unionism . Flore has married Lucien , a minor . He is a pretty good man , a bit indolent mainly in bed . The ticking of an alarm clock comes back several times , insistent , and Flore feels that time is passing her by . She's a good housewife : Ginette Leclerc had begun to be sick and tired of her parts of bitches and she had already played a cast against type role in " Nuit Sans Fin " ( 1946 ) . In " La Maison Sous La Mer " she used a sweet wistful voice , and her eyes were longing to find true romantic love . When Constant , a newcomer to the village , takes her beneath the sea , to a cave he calls " his house " , it's love at first sight . Flore is not a bad woman , she does not want to hurt her husband , but she can't help it . Lucien and Constant become friends too , and there is a wonderful scene when they talk about the woman of their dreams without knowing they have the same person in mind . Claude Renoir's black and white cinematography is also an asset . The cable-cars , under an ominous sky and over a sea so dark we hardly see it , are filmed in a way that gives goose-flesh ( one thinks of Jacques Tourneur's scenes on the derricks in " nightfall " ( 1956 ) ) . The final scene when the horizon seems to go up in smoke is one of these Renoir's tours De force . Yes Henri Calef is definitely a director whose works should be rediscovered .
The heart is no longer a lonely hunter .	Guédiguian tackles here a subject which Marcel Pagnol treated many times some sixty years ago : the pregnant girl and the fate of the soon-to - be born baby : " Angèle " ( 1934 ) " Fanny " ( 1936 ) and " la fille du puisatier " ( 1942 ) Both Guediguian's and Pagnol's works are set in the Provence . But the times have changed . Once , being an unmarried mother was a shame , a curse and if the girl did not find a man to save her honor , she was outlawed from society ( In Pagnol ' s movies ) . A young girl falls in love with a black young man and gets pregnant , but the poor boy is accused of rape . The parents ' attitude is diametrically opposite to that of the people of the thirties : this baby is a hope , the only hope in fact , the only thing that prevents the jailed man from complete despair . In a very moving sequence , à la " it's a wonderful life " , the father explains how the baby's life touches so many other lives . Life is not rosy for these modest people but their struggle is noble and endearing : Ascaride's trip to Sarajevo is the center of gravity of the movie : she displays so much love , understanding , humanity and hope against hope that the audience feels relieved when she finally pulls it off . Much less ambitious than " la ville est tranquille " , " à la place du coeur " shows that sometimes , the heart is not a lonely hunter anymore . Acting is uniformly good . The only flaw is the fascist cop , the one cardboard character of the whole film .
Beverly Sutphin is not to be trifled with	Imagine this : the main character is a woman called Beverly Sutphin . Her husband is a dentist and she does her best to bring up her children . In short , she is a respectable human being with the particularity of being a real stickler for good manners . Maybe , a little too respectable so that when someone speaks ill of one member of her family , Beverly is ready to kill to defend her family ! Only one filmmaker seemed designated to shot this highly entertaining black comedy : John Waters , the king of bad taste and extravagance . In " Serial Mom " , most of the comical situations are structured about the two quoted characteristics . The whole is condensed in one hour and a half . You don't get bored one moment and you honestly laugh in front of all these murders . In " Serial Mom " , you also recognize Waters ' strong taste for bloody , gore and horror movies . Moreover , for this extraordinary director , it is the occasion to harm the model image of the American family . All in all , a delightfully politically incorrect comedy led by a Kathleen Turner on top form .
Fine miniseries	Adapted from the wonderful Maurice Leblanc's novel , it is a very exciting if a bit slow-moving miniseries . Claude Jade , whom Truffaut's lovers know quite well ( She was the heroine of the Antoine Doinel Saga ) , is well cast as Veronique , a young woman who finds back her son and her father on a Breton Island and gets involved in a very strange story , including old ceremonies , druids , murders , human sacrifices . . . . All that a contemporary dud such as " Broceliande " intended to do ( and dismally failed ) magnificently works here . As Veronique becomes more and more alone , the suspense and the terror rise , and grab the audience till the last episode . Spoiler : Leblanc's novel was faithfully transferred to the TV screen , with only a big difference : Arsene Lupin , who intervenes only at the end of the book anyway , is completely absent . Some people complained about it at the time . But as " and then there were none " did not need any Hercule Poirot , this Leblanc gem could do without him .
Desperate hours . . . . .	. . . Our the grandpa's hour . More than the gangsters , it's a detailed depiction of an American family circa 1930 : the father , proud of his job who worries about his son who's given up high school , the mum everyone would like to have , the daughter who forgets dinner time in his squeeze's arms , and the twins who are absolutely lovable ( " Don't go to sleep first , please ! " ) . And there's the grandfather , playing the Yankee doodle on his flute . Have you noticed that this tune plays the same role as Doris Day's " Que Sera Sera " in Hitchcock's " The man who knew too much " ( 1956 ) ? And there's this grandpa who is finally the most courageous person of the family . So old he does not even tell you his age , but proud of his country and resisting to the gangster's hateful blackmail . A good film by Wellman .
Love versus Napoleon	First thing to do is to forget history ( I will not argue with American history , but as far as French history is concerned , well . . ) : No , they did not live happily ever after , for the marriage was finally broken , and Jerome had more mistresses than you could count . No , Madame Mère - who briefly appears to sweeten her offspring's relationship - did not probably intervene . But it does not matter when you deal with Frank Borzage , my favorite American director of the twenties / thirties . To say he gave it his all is diminish this director , because there was always more to give , another passion to plumb , another open wound that demanded he raises his voice ; no one depicted love ( against the whole world ) as he did . In consequence , the best scenes are to be found in the second part of the film : Marion Davis , " translating " the letter into English in a voice chocked with emotion ; the scene on the ship where the unfortunate lovers raises their glasses before the bell ring - this scene is similar to the ones we find in " Humoresque " before the hero goes to war , and in " Street angel " when Janet Gaynor says goodbye to his love ( who does not know it's a farewell celebration ) . In " Hearts divided " the sequence is too short , and somewhat ruined by the final scenes although the song and the wall are romantic stuff . As everything Borzage did , " Hearts Divided " is a movie which deserves to be watched . I will not rate it as highly as Borzage's true masterpieces ( " Seventh Heaven " " Street Angel " " Little man what now ? " " A farewell to the arms " " Strange Cargo " or the immortal " Mortal storm " ) though .
Resistance and whodunit .	Resistance fighter Marie-Octobre ( it's her former code name ) gathers her mates after the war . There's a traitor among them and they've got to discover him and do away with him . The audience is induced to suspect one by one all the " guests " , à la Agatha Christie . The film forgets the historical background very quick to focus on an efficient but rather artificial suspense . The good cast ( Danielle Darrieux , Serge reggiani , Bernard Blier , Paul Meurisse ) makes up for the conventional side of this story . It ' s a watchable work , but it's not representative of Julien Duvivier's greatness : he was in the last part of his brilliant career and time had begun to take its toll . But his touch is still here though .
sweet euphemism . . .	A widowed man , Mr Charme ( Michel Bouquet ) doesn't recover from his wife's death and he asks a nurse , Reine ( Gwennola Bothorel ) to find a solution so that he can join his late wife . Reine accepts because Mr Charme is a well-off widowed and she hopes to appropriate his fortune . For this , she is helped by Mr Charme's involved nephew , " Joyeux " . The starting point of this movie is very interesting because it aims at showing the stinginess and the hypocrisy of certain characters obstinate by appropriating a person ' inheritance . As a rule , such a topic would have demanded a caustic and malicious humor but unfortunately , it's not really the case . The movie rather distills a slight and discreet humor . The ironical side of the movie is especially softened rather than showed . Nevertheless , Roger Guillot offers us a pleasant movie that is worth seeing for Michel Bouquet ' imposing performance . It just goes to show that a great actor can save a quite minor movie . When Bouquet is out of the sequences , the movie loses its interest . He also epitomizes a caricature of retired people : sullen and a tiny bit cynical .
mother you had me but I never had you	This premier effort from a beacon French actress , Nicole Garcia already shows where her author chose to go as regards her set of themes : family and problems that can reign in it . See also " le Fils Préféré " ( 1994 ) and especially the unsettling " l'Adversaire " ( 2002 ) with a mind-boggling Daniel Auteuil . So , divorce and alternating custody of the children were to be privileged and the first originality of this " Week-End Sur Deux " is that here , it's a woman rather than a man who breaks the law to protract her stay with her children . Camille ( Nathalie Baye ) is an actress who devoted little time to her conjugal life with her husband Adrian ( Miki Manojlovic ) and so led to her separation with him and her children . When one week-end , she must go to Vichy for a new role , she has no other choice than to take her children with her . After a grievous telephone conversation during which her husband calls her an irresponsible , she cracks up and absconds with her children in a rented car towards Spain to attend a meteorite fall . This rash impulse and Camille's headstrong attitude are an attempt from her to reconquer love and trust from her children , especially Antoine who has a hard time of the divorce . So , her mother begins to show interest in his likings , notably astronomy . The vivid portrait Nicole Garcia leaves of Camille underpins this unceremonious turn of events and is the backbone of the film . Garcia's edgy style serves the escape of a reckless mother who obey to her desires and who nearly loses her markers . See the sequence in the hotel when she thinks she has lost her bag . With this perspective , moments of suspense with the police , the customs or the rented cars agency subside to give way to a mercurial mother who wants to prove she can listen to her children's plight . How will it end ? Will her children and especially Antoine end up accepting her ? And how will Adrian react ? The answers are in this sensitive film .
We survive through our children .	The eighties brought in France another way of making movies : first a relatively short version which was shown in the theaters , then a miniseries which was broadcast on TV . Examples : " Lelouch's " les uns et les autres " Hossein's " les miserables " Bolognini's ( co-production with Italy ) " la dame aux camelias " " Comencini's " cuore " ( idem ) . . . . and Robert Enrico's " Au nom de tous les miens " " Au nom de tous les miens exists in two versions . You have got to bear in mind that here it's a " reader's digest " form ( 2h25 ) ! Think that the miniseries lasts 8 hours ! With " Cuore " , it's the best of the lot which includes plenty of other films in two versions . Robert Enrico , whose best film remains his wonderful " les aventuriers " ( 1967 ) , had already tackled WW2 with " le vieux fusil " which , although praised to the skies at the time and a Cesar winner , sufferred from a far-fetched screenplay full of tricks a la Feuillade , the old master of the French silent era . There's not such a problem with Martin Gray's story . His unbelievable true odyssey is one of the most harrowing and one of the most awesome of the whole twentieth century , and he will go down in history , as Anne Frank did . His life is so eventful through the sufferings , the pain and the small joys - the scene when he gives cakes to a poor little girl-that it resembles a novel . My Jewish friends have always told me that they believe in survival , not in a paradise after death , but through their children . That's what's Martin keeps on repeating , that's why he gets over every time fate strikes , that's why he wrote his book , that's why we almost never see him cry ( except for the scene in his aunt's house in NYC ) Of course , the theatrically released version leaves something to be desired , so I urge everybody to see the long version before . . . if he can .
Slip of the pen	Overlong story which should appeal to melodrama buffs . It has almost everything a good melodrama should : love , hatred , romanticism , exoticism , adventures and voyages , and even an earthquake - the special effects are not bad for the time - : and whereas the disaster movies of the seventies would revolve around the catastrophe and put filler aplenty ( cardboard characters played by the stars ) , this one has little affect on the plot , aside from showing Marianne Uncle Ti's courage and devotion . You will have forgotten it when the movie has ended . The same story happens twice : on his deathbed , Octavius's wife tells her husband she did not love him when she married him , then it was respect , then little by little , something great began to grow ; just before Marguerite's religious vows , William tells the same story to Marianne . The nun's convent looks like a Mont Saint Michel in miniature . Well acted .
sex is good in Brittany	" Mais Ne nous Délivrez pas Du Mal " ( 1971 ) was a cannon ball in the landscape of French cinema . Its director Joël Séria staked out a position of shocking director who didn't shrink from bad taste . The 1971 film was a work whose prevailing mood was evil . " Les Galettes De Pont-Aven " is openly dissimilar to the 1971 film . The general estimation might even deem it as its polar opposite insofar it is an invitation to the pleasures of senses and a hymn to life that Séria offers us as well as a glorification of the female body . The master plan isn't apparently that much fresh . Henri Serin ( Jean-Pierre Marielle ) is a mediocre umbrella salesman with a dreary life . His wife and children who scorn him ( Séria shoots in a low-key manner , two sequences that tell a lot about the way she considers her husband . As for the children , one don't see them ) . Fortunately , this mediocre , humdrum life is compensated by two passions : painting and sex . During a trip in Brittany , he makes the acquaintance of an offbeat couple Emile ( Bernard Fresson ) and Angela ( Dolores McDonough ) who galvanize him to bloom himself thanks to his gift for painting and his strong taste for sex . After he fled with this superb Canadian young woman , his perception of life improves . The itinerary of a man who is weary of a mundane daily life at the beginning of a film and who is exploding with bliss in the end has been used many times before or since . But Séria's effort conveys a communicative bracing jollity which makes the viewer leave with a big smile on his face at the end of the film . A search for happiness and the basic pleasures of life embodied by an original cinematography which seems to give a major part of the shots the aspect of small paintings . Séria's stylish directing and writing are important enough to stop the film to become too crass and he often falls back on the suggested , a good weapon to make less wild improper moments . And there's Brittany as the backdrop of Henri's adventures where joy of living reigns . His road is scattered with colorful meetings . Claude Piéplu makes a ( much too short ) appearance as a bard whose household seems stormy . Women help Henri to fully live his passion for painting and sex . Of all them , coy Marie ( Jeanne Goupil ) is perhaps the most positive one because she showcases a heartfelt , pure sensitiveness to both Henri and the viewer . Maybe , her and Henri are going to live forever . The name of the hero Serin means serene in French . That's what Henri tries to be during his stay in Brittany .
it's a long way to the top ( if you want to win an election )	This movie broaches an election . It isn't absolutely a presidential or legislative election . Simply , this election takes place in an American high school and it must elect a student for the following role : the president's board of the students . This is what Reese Witherspoon would like to become and she stands in this election . But one of his teachers , Matthew Broderick isn't prepared to accept that and in order to stand in her way , he asks one of his students , Chris Klein to stand fin the election . Broderick asked him to do this because he knows that Klein is very appreciated in the high school for his good mood and his happiness . And so , things get hard . . . It's obvious that Klein hasn't got Witherspoon's ambitions . He comes from a wealthy family and aspires to a quiet and idle life . Whereas Tammy Metzler , Klein's sister , well it's more in an idea of revenge and jealousy against her brother ( he unvoluntarily charmed Metzler's lover who is a lesbian ) that she applies for being president . Election is , of course a satiric comedy that deregulates the bases of an election . All in all , people and especially teenagers don't get interested in it because it brings nothing to their lives . It inspires them indifference and boredom , the same feelings that shine the Americans towards the political life . When Witherspoon and Klein are making their speeches ( that use all the processes of the rhetoric . like political men , they're talking for saying nothing ) in front of the pupils , these ones are laughing at them whereas Tammy's one provokes their happiness and enthusiasm because it's all the contrary of a banal speech . Moreover , Klein will prefer to vote for Witherspoon rather than him , this last one will find out before the verdict in front of the pupils that she won . Due to this , Matthew Broderick will try to unsettle the election's final results . As far as Matthew Broderick is concerned , well we can say that this election is the beginning of the end for him : Witherspoon's despising him , he can't distinguish his private and professionnal life any more and his real intentions towards Witherspoon will earn him the personal's hate and his departure from the high school . Reese Witherspoon is really talented and her character doesn't really attract the liking . Moreover , Alexander Payne tries to underline his ambitious side by making her ridiculous ( her speech of candidature is ridiculous . She should conclude that no matter the way we take , we always find obstacles and nothing's far from certain . So at the end , it would be difficult to find a negative point to this comedy and however , I found one : it remains to deplore the vulgar and heavy side of the comedy which is nearly common in American comic films . Except this , " Election " is a clever and entertaining movie .
Compartment lady killers . / Compartiment Tombeurs	Mme Monicourt : " but , my dear , isn't it a bit too much to appear on stage wearing only a vest ? " Isabelle , des Folies Bergères : " You miss the point ! I'm completely naked ! " This is a movie which is so far-fetched , so silly but so dense ( there's a lot of Coups de Théâtre in a movie which lasts barely 70 min . ) Mme Monicourt , a bourgeois matron , ( Alice Tissot ) has just married her only daughter . Discovering that her son-in-law , Robert , will not be at her beck and call as her unfortunate hubby ( Pierre Larquey ) is , she wants her offspring to get a divorce . She first thinks of a Folies Bergères dancer ( Ginette Leclerc ) who could be a perfect mistress for Robert . But she ' s got finally a better idea : one day , on a train , during a storm , Robert had an affair with a woman and she told him that woman was herself ! So his wife , Nicole , is his daughter ! Such a screenplay might seem inept , but it isn't ! It is completely mad , involving so many affairs and so many mistaken identities it's impossible to count'em all . The flashback - Robert seduces a woman in a compartment - takes place in a cardboard train !
Trailer break first !	Not only Minnelli made memorable musicals such as " Brigadoon " or brilliant melodramas like " some came running " , but he also directed delightful comedies . " The long long trailer " is one of them . It's an exquisite little story , the star of which is not Lucille Ball but the trailer : its size is so imposing that it's much fun watching it as it makes its way thru the streets or on the long and winding ( and narrow ) roads of the mountains . But the scene that climaxes the movie is when the couple visits their relatives and the driver reverses in , while destroying valuable things from the desirable property . The sequence in the mountains is equally hilarious , as the couple , realizing that they are in danger , keeps on talking about a novel they do not care a little bit about . There's the obligatory macho side : when Ball takes the wheel , she's subject to numerous " warnings " or " advice " that make her temper rise . The story is a long flashback and the very first scene is some kind of spoof on films noirs . Unpretentious , never vulgar , this is a comedy for the whole family .
Minnelli and Visconti .	When you're watching Minnelli's work today you cannot help but thinking that he had a strong influence on Luchino Visconti's " la caditi dei degli " ( 1969 ) Actually the two movies begin the same way : a family whose members are tearing each other part because some of them go nazi . It does not matter if the scene takes place in Argentina in Minnelli's work : we find the same madness , the same baroque side and similarities abound : the old man's death echoes to that of the patriarch of the Essenbeck family in " la caduit dei degli " . Karl Boehm's character inspired Helmut Griem's one . And Ingrid Thulin is featured in both films , although she does not appear in the first thirty minutes , the best . . The dinner scene remains impressive today : if it certainly inspired Visconti later , itself takes probably its roots in Frank Borzague's masterwork " mortal storm " ( 1940 ) , which tackled long before his two peers the subject of the family and nazism . But Minnelli added gaudy colors , typical of the fifties melodrama , and special effects - the four horsemen who will come back , particularly later when chic people are dancing while war is raging outside . Actually this scene is so strong as the rest of the movie seems like a let-down afterward . All that takes place in Paris does not rise above average . The film never recaptures the intensity of its beginning , except for its very last minutes , with the final confrontation between the two cousins - it's difficult to admit , though , that Glenn Ford and Karl Boehm are relatives . If a strong beginning and an effective ending make a good film , you can say that Minnelli's extravaganza is worth a watch . It's not among his best works , but if critic Georges Sadoul said " the first sequence is sheer aggressive bad taste " , do not forget that " good taste " does not necessarily make great works .
The ladder of law has no top and no bottom , has it ?	A buried treasure . The director has made a lot of these peplums which proliferated circa 1960 . None is particularly memorable . But " IL fornaretto di Venezia " is a different matter ; this is a definitely absorbing , excellent work , that would deserve to be restore to favor . Had it come from a recognized " auteur " , it would be a near classic today . This is a murder mystery - Michèle Morgan plays a 1507 Miss Marple - , a whodunit , a tragedy , a thriller . . It ' also the eternal fight between the high and the mighty on one side , the poor and the humble on the other one . Charged with a noble's murder , a young baker will be judged by the Doges ; what can he expect from men who ' s got all Venice in their hands ? A third of the movies are flashbacks , as Morgan's investigation progresses ; the elements fit together as dominos , and inexorably lead to an unbearable conclusion ; unbearable for the Patricians who practice a travesty of a trial . They are wearing masks as they bring in the verdict . The use of Venice settings is admirable : a duel at night , strange meetings in tortuous streets , sumptuous palaces , the magnificent clock who rings the bell of doom . And above all , the director makes us feel that in the city , life goes on with its feasts , its street theater , its human pyramids : a small miracle in itself . A splendid cast , including Jacques Perrin , Michèle Morgan , Stefania Sandrelli , Sylva Koscina shine in a political thriller which has not lost its strength today , in spite of a melodramatic ending .
prime form , trite contents	In France , it's considered polite from French critics to genuflect to the apparently cohesive chain of films Brian De Palma left behind him . However , a good proportion of his films are marred by bombastic effects " Carrie " ( 1976 ) , " the Fury " ( 1978 ) " Scarface " ( 1983 ) without mentioning his borrowings from Hitchcock . Here , in " Dressed to Kill " , it's impossible not to think of " Vertigo " ( 1958 ) for the long sequence in the museum while the key moment in the lift makes inevitably think of the shower anthology sequence in " Psycho " ( 1960 ) . About our involved film , I don't want to revive the old debate : does De Palma rip off Hitchcock ? Instead , i would tend to be generous and to classify " Dressed to Kill " in the category of De Palma's winners alongside " Sisters " ( 1973 ) and " Obssession " ( 1976 ) . With however some reservations and they're the ones I previously enumerated which fuel the bickering between De Palma's rabid fans and his detractors . If there's one sure thing in " Dressed to Kill " which can generate general agreement among film-lovers , it's De Palma's virtuosity in directing . He wields his camera just like a filmmaker expert is supposed to do . His sophisticated camera work brilliantly fuels the suspense which entails a rise of the tension and a discomforting aura . The audience is easily glued in front of the screen . This is helped by the use of several long silent sequences during which everything depends on looks and gestures . By the way , in " Psycho " , there were also long silent , suspenseful parts . . . But the main drawback in De Palma's 1980 vintage is that the quality of the plot can't be found wanting and appears to be a rehash of many formulaic , corny ingredients pertaining to an incalculable number of murder stories . The prostitute is the sole witness of the crime . Then , she's suspected by the police and has to act on her own ( with a little help from the victim's son from the scene in the subway onwards ) ) to track down the murderer and to prove her innocence . Apart from the fact that De Palma uses a type of character who for once isn't demeaned at all , it's a menu which smells the reheated . And the filmmaker ends his film on a sequence that echoes to the opening one . Yes , it's superbly filmed but when one discovers its real function , one figures : " it's almost gratuitous filler " . Perhaps De Palma wanted to stretch his film beyond one hour and a half when at this time the viewer knows ( and even before ) who the killer is . The two central mainsprings in De Palma's set of themes articulate hinges on manipulation and voyeurism . The latter theme is well present in " Dressed to Kill " from the first scene onwards which makes the film almost look like a soft porn movie . And the filmmaker isn't afraid to film his main actress and wife Nancy Allen in her underwear . I find his approach about this theme rather doubtful . But maybe the first sequence was conceived to be a mirror of the viewer and De Palma wanted to stir his peeping tom side . I don't want to demean at all De Palma's work . His prestigious work in directing which entails a communicative treat to film redeems the global weakness of the story and its doubtful aspects . Twenty six years after , the controversy he aroused amid movie-goers isn't ready to subside .
Bang the drum slowly	Produced by Maureen O'Hara's brother , in order to recharge his sister's career , Sam Peckinpah did not like this film . O ' Hara sings on the cast and credits and at the end of the movie . It's strange to see this par excellence Fordian heroine on Peckinpah's territory . But you do not have to be a Peckinpah fan to enjoy this crepuscular western ( Peckinpah is not my cup of tea as far as western are concerned ; give me Ford , Daves , Walsh , Mann instead ) . If there had been problems between the director and his star , the movie did not suffer for it . It is a good western but be warned : it's a gloomy one . The story begins with the death of a dancehall girl's child ( " He was all I loved in this world " she would say later ) . THe movie looks like a long funeral ; it's a long way to the place where the boy must be buried in his father's grave . It's difficult to tackle a sadder subject . Another great moment is O'Hara's and Keith's arrival in the ghost town , searching for the grave . Often filmed at dusk or in the darkest night , this film is also a story of redemption , of forgiveness .
Your mother would tell you to do that .	Based on an Oscar Wilde , a delightful bittersweet period piece which is some kind of reductio ad aburdum that conjugal love can be the way to happiness and that you must not throw it all away . A long flashback , where a fan sold in auction becomes the Madeleine de Proust which revives memories of long ago , when the two people who meet again after all those years return to a time when they were young and handsome . It's also a good lesson in teaching us that things are not necessarily what they seem . It is also a scathing attack on this society of snubs , those privileged classes whose favorite pastime is putting their fellow men ( and women ) down .
The granddaddy of " 10 Rillington Place " and " The Boston Strangler "	The two movies I mention in my title were proofs positive that , all that Fleischer threatened to do in the film noir field all the promises were fulfilled . " Follow me quietly " can be looked upon as a blueprint for these masterful works . Its only flaw is its length : it's obviously too short , and we would like to know more about the Judge . This serial killer apparently " punishes " : like in Agatha Christie's famous " And then there were none " ( 1939 ) , a subject which was also that of the celebrated " Seven " . All the scenes which feature the dummy are extraordinary , and Fleischer shows his brilliance when it comes to make us feel he is " alive " . Outside these three works , do not miss early efforts such as " the clay pigeon " ( with a shoestring budget too ) " the narrow margin " or later works such as " blind terror " and " Solyent green " ( a sci fi classic with film noir accents ) ; only Fleischer's final movies were mediocre , the likes of " Amytiville " " Conan " and " Ashanti " which perhaps went against him and tarnished his image . Which was unfair .
Gregory Ratoff's got only the best film about Oscar Wilde to declare	Without a doubt , this is the film to see if you are deeply interested in this unconventional and fabulous writer that was Oscar Wilde . Two other films about him were shot : " the Trials of Oscar Wilde " and Brian Gilbert's work in 1997 but they aren't found wanting to Gregory Ratoff's version . Of course , it's indisputable that Ratoff's film was made with restricted means as the cheap scenery testify . It sometimes gives way to drawbacks like in the very last sequence which shows Wilde after his lost trial sitting at the terrace of a Parisian café and next to him , one can hear a musician playing the accordion . A perfect cliché about France . But it's minor quibble and anyway , given the means Ratoff had at his disposal , was there another way to show the audience that Wilde was in Paris under the pseudonym of Sébastien Melmott ? Anyway , one can eminently forget the scenery and admire how Ratoff conceived his film . First , he eschewed many traps of the biopic film including the following one : to relate all Wilde's life from his childhood . He chose to steer his film on the period of his life which began with the relationship Wilde developed with his young protégé Lord Alfred Douglas . In a nutshell , this scandalous love ( for the time ) was the beginning of the end for the witty writer who fell foul of the chic , posh Victorian society . As everyone knows , homosexuality was banned in this very conservative , ossified society and it could only end up as a trial for Wilde . A trial he could only lose but during which he showed a stalwart courage thanks to his own witty answers . This trial is the pinnacle of the film and Ratoff succeeds in incorporating elements of Wilde's anterior life like the introduction at the outset of his wondrous novel " the Picture of Dorian Gray " ( 1889 ) . And one can only admire his style to film the evolution of this trial and the verbal exchanges between Wilde and sir Edward Carson . At first , Wilde seems sure of himself and his cues make the audience laugh but bit by bit confidence leaves him as he is dwarfed by dogged Carson's ruthless questions . In the long run , Ratoff weaves a stifling atmosphere and it's impossible not to feel it . All you have to do is to sit and admire the quality of the dialogs and also of the actors . Robert Morley confers to his main character the wit and wisdom which made Wilde famous . And Ralph Richardson equally delivers a prime performance . But John Neville seems too old for the role Lord Alfred Douglas . In the most recent version , Jude Law was a better choice thanks to his relatively young age . Of course , this film will never supersede a good book about one of the most crucial writers who existed on this planet but Ratoff's work makes him justice .
new hedonism for Justin Kerrigan	Cardiff , Wales . A bunch of 5 mates are deeply bored in this town . There's Jip who works in a clothes shop . Coop , an easy-going DJ . Nina , inseparable from her best friend Lulu and Moff . The week is hell for them and they only wait for one thing : the week-end . At this time , they got out to a nightclub and to the sound of tech no music , they experience different drugs , particularly ecstasy . Then , they usually continue the party to a friend's . At the end of this really good time on Sunday , the feelings are the following ones : tiredness , melancholy , just the memory of a crazy night . . . Surfing on the wave of the notorious success of " Trainspotting " ( 1996 ) , this debut movie written and directed by Justin Kerrigan brings and develops a new variation about the notion of hedonism . It means : how to have fun as much as possible while knowing that you have a shortened lapse of time . Indeed , as I have previously written , for the 5 main characters of the movie , the week is hell and the weekend is the only time they can free themselves and have a wild time without the single pressure ( besides , Jip in one sequence talks about the positive aspects of shooting oneself : you are numb , you don't feel any pressure , you are like an astronaut in orbit above the earth . Kerrigan's relentless directorial style expresses very well the spirit of debauchery and care freeness of the 5 protagonists . They only live to take advantage as much as possible of an hedonist week-end . Furthermore , to spice up a little more the festive atmosphere in which his movie bathes , Kerrigan isn't afraid to include dreamlike sequences which represent his characters ' fantasy or embarrassments . Then , " Human Traffic " ( 1999 ) is also served by a particularly bouncy sound track . The amount ? A perfect symbiosis between the sound and the music . At last , this week-end of euphoria enables to shelve momentarily the usual drab image of the popular social classes , British cinema has studied a lot . Notwithstanding , when a movie ( conscientiously or not ) exploits the fame of another famous one , it rarely matches the brilliance of its predecessor . " Human Traffic " is in this condition . There's little inventiveness at the level of the narrative structure and the introduction of the characters and one can note down a few useless digressions ( Jip who , in the nightclub goes in the manager's office and tells him a cock-and-bull story so as to enable Moff to enter the club but that's no use because the latter succeeds in coming without problems ) . One can also blame Kerrigan to overlook the dramatic sides that the story could have involved . His movie can also be read as a transition from euphoria to paranoia and the dramatic connotations of this second pole aren't virtually explored . It's a shame ! It could have conveyed the following message : even in the happiest moments , there can be something terrible preparing which can flop them . The same remark could also be said when Coop has a fit of jealousy because Nina broaches a guy . It may not be the last great film of the nineties as it is billed on the DVD cover but " Human Traffic " is to be taken as a good and incisive little movie which conveys with the styles and the fashions of the end of the twentieth century , a will to have fun without ulterior motives and trouble . An ideal movie to start any party or before going to a club .
Purging baby .	This is Jean Renoir's first talkie and he was probably delighted to let his audience hear . . . the sound of a flush ! Preceding " la chienne " , which was Renoir's first masterpiece , " on purge bébé " is a hilarious farce which is not totally harmless . Georges Feydeau who wrote the play and was the specialist of the " théâtre de boulevard " satirized the bourgeois society , the social conventions and even the Army . Baby's dad's problem is to sell chamberpots to provide the soldiers with the comfort they deserve ! But the very day M . Follavoine meets M . Chouilloux , from the ministry of war , coming to make the deal , Baby refuses to go to the toilet ! So his mother Julie has got to give him a purgative . A mad mad mad story , involving a love triangle , Follavoine throwing a chamberpot through the room to test its solidity , his wife trying to get his client to have a little purgative too ( so baby will understand he must take some ) . Renoir's intellectual fans will probably disdain it . They do not know what they are missing !
Mayerling revised and updated by the seventh art .	In my reviews of the 1968 Terence Young version , I've already told my thoughts on the historical facts . There's no need to get back on it : suffice to say the true story was not as romantic as sensitive people still thinks so today . Anatole Litvak does not pass over in silence Rudolph's dissoluteness , as two orgy scenes testify . Besides , Charles Boyer is a much better archduke than Omar Shariff . Ditto Danielle Darrieux who was about 20 ( whereas Catherine Deneuve was nearing 25 when she played Mary ) , thus a more credible baroness Vetsera . Both versions , it's important to notice , are both from Claude Anet's NOVEL . It's not a historian's work and it should be not looked upon so . However , Litvak is a better director than Terence Young . With a much smaller budget , and of course without the 1968 technical aids , he works wonders : the tiny church where Rudolph meets Mary in half-light creates a mystical and heathen atmosphere at once . The night at the opera house is dazzling . To conclude the scene of the ball at the German embassy , the artist uses a stunning tracking out which leaves the swirling twirling dancers , then stops on a glass door adorned with the Habsburg emblem . Rudolphe , firing at his reflection in a mirror is an adequate metaphor . A minor flaw : Gabrielle Dorziat is completely miscast as Sissi , Rudolph's mother : she was one of the most beautiful women of her time ( we can see the magnificent Winterhalter portraits at the beginning of the movie ) . At fifty , when the Mayerling tragedy occurred , her beauty was still incomparable . She had nothing to do with the aging dowager we see on the screen ( in Young ' s version , it's Ava Gardner ! ) And hats off to Danielle Darrieux who , sixty-four years after " Mayerling " , recently triumphed in " 8 femmes " , a blockbuster in France . Any advance ?
Back in the Casbah	It was made just one year after Duvivier's classic , which even Godard ( Godard ! ) mentioned in his " Pierrot LE Fou " . Although I hate God'Art about as much as I love Duvivier , I must admit that a film that can transcend the New Wavelet's contempt possesses something magic a la " Casablanca " . I was skeptical about the lead : aristocratic Charles Boyer replacing plebeian Gabin ? I was wrong : Boyer , who began his career in France after all , was up to scratch . And I ' d go as far as to write that Hedy Lamarr is much more attractive than Mireille Balin in the original . All that remains is faithful like a dog : except for the scene when an old singer ( Frehel ) bursting into tears when she hears one of her old recordings , all the important sequences were kept . Cromwell's directing is efficient , although it never recaptures the intensity ( and the director's pessimism ) of its model , is a good film one can recommend to people who cannot get " Pepe Le Moko " . Objections : the scene of Pierrot ' s letter and the punishment of the informer is much too long and lacks suspense . Biggest gaffe is this ditty ( " C'est La Vie " ) which Boyer sings and which seems out of a musical : in what is primarily a film noir , it's thoroughly incongruous . Many of the great lines of the French classic can be heard , notably the famous " I'm an informer , I'm not a hypocrite " , and the Boyer / Lamarr pairing displays a special chemistry . The black and white makes a good use of shadows and lights . If all the remakes were made with care like this one . . . . .
And justice for all . . .	French critics often talk about Cayatte's cybernetics . . . But , they say , some day , the robots went wrong . Roughly from 1960 onwards , well another cheap trick of the nouvelle vague . At the time , " le glaive et la balance " was slagged off by the young turks of the rising generation godardesque . " bad actors " " agonizing trial " " overblown " " unlikely story " . . you name it . . . Well , if a story had to be plausible to be filmed , 99 % of the production would be dismissed . The problem lies in the fact that Cayatte deals with a very serious story : a child's murder , three suspects , two of whom are guilty . Retrospection illumines different aspects of the movie , unavailable , contextually , to critics of the time of issue . Firstly , this is par excellence the kind of movie Hollywood could remake . Its components are contemporary : a suspenseful thriller with a whodunit at that , three long flashbacks searching the suspects ' lives , and a final trial which would effortlessly make today's directors ( and script writers ) drool : shall we sentence one innocent or shall we acquit two criminals ? The populace will rule . . . in a way a lot of viewers will find unbearable . And justice for all ? ? ?
Meet Joe Black	Jean Gourguet has sunk into oblivion , and the rare critics we can read are downright negative : poor melodramas , coarse comedies dominated by sex . . . " Son Dernier Role " must be the exception which proves the rule , for it is melodrama for sure , but good melodrama . An actress Hermine Wood ( Gaby Morlay ) who triumphs on stage every night has a physical exam and discovers she is terminally ill . What could have been an awful tear-jerker is actually a lovely film : based on a play , it features some of the greatest actors of the era : Dalio , Jean Tissier , Gabrielle Fontan , Helene Manson . . And the story is well told : at the beginning , the actress who has just played the part of an old lady says that she would like to grow old like that character did . The subject of the film is not that of a slowly vanishing youth ( Hermine is 36 ) but the regrets felt at a missed opportunity : the pleasures of the harbor , the quiet joys of a retired life when you grow old . In that context , the scene when Morlay plays her long gone dead mom and the children ' s dance on a ring around her in the boarding house on the banks of the Annecy lake make sense . There's also that disturbing scene in the doctor's waiting room : this strange man complaining that time moves too fast who will return for a very short while at the very end of the movie gives the movie an eerie side . It's so brilliantly made that the viewer hardly notices it . Hermine Wood is the heroine's stage name . Her real name , oddly , is Blanche Du Bois ! It cannot be a tribute to Tennessee Williams , for " a streetcar named desire " was not yet written !
White madness	A very fine adventures movie with a great Stewart Granger , an actor so nice that even when he tries to become nasty we don't believe him . The fifties were his heyday , with such exciting works as " Moonfleet " " the prisoner of Zenda " or " the last hunt " . " The wild north " shows Granger at the top of his game : with a mediocre actor , the character would have been trite . Wendell Corey's portrayal seems monotonous by comparison . Granger turns what could have been another cop-and-prisoner movie into an endearing absorbing story : it may have inspired Nicholas Ray for some of the scenes between Anthony Quinn and Peter O'Toole in " the savage innocents " . In the wild north , White is everywhere . This is white madness , says Jules Vincent , a white madness which kills the minister and drives the constable crazy . Jules shows himself a real shrink who uses a real shock therapy : Pedley lost his reason in the snow , he recovers it in the white swirls of the river . Cyd Charisse is a dancer extraordinaire but as an Indian she is . . . well . . . Andrew Marton shows much tenderness in the scenes with the cat or when he films a boy's smile when he gets a chocolate bar .
brilliant disguise	After a feud with his father , Larbi a young Arab man decides to leave Dunkerque in the North of France to start a new life again in Marseille . But the meeting with a young couple , Christian ( Clovis Cornillac ) and Béa ( Sylvie Testud ) will modify his plans . After he helped Béa to hold a drunken Clovis until their flat and because he feels enamored of Béa , he stays with them to Christian's discontentment who obviously thinks that Béa deceives them . It's carnival time in the city and the characters will let their masks slip . . . The director Thomas Vincent declared that his credentials for his first film were " Brassed Off " ( 1996 ) by Mark Herman and Ken Loach's cinema . His film takes place in times of economical recession and unemployment amid the working-classes but he well retained the lessons from his teachers . Although the living conditions of his threesome of main characters are filmed in a gritty style and under a gray sky , he eschews everything that could confer to his film a drab vibe . He located it at the time of carnival , a party during which for several days and under extravagant costumes , everyone drinks , dances , smokes , has fun and is taken in a whirlpool of joy . If Vincent follows these rules , he also taps them to better unmask his characters and unveil their real persona . Christian is a bad-tempered , racist man unable to assume his responsibilities . Béa is undecided whether she should leave him or not . This party time reveals the cracks of a fragile love . As for Larbi , he dreams of spending his days with her . But at times he appears hesitant to join the merrymakers because he's Arab and racism is latent , even in chipper moments . The novel paradox developed by Vincent on his trio of characters is that by getting embroiled in a whirlpool of dance , music and confetti supposed to conceal the murky , ambiguous parts of their minds , Vincent isn't afraid to lay them bare . " Karnaval " also put two of the three main actors on the map : Sylvie Testud and Clovis Cornillac . It was one of their first roles and both of them already present the full extent of their talent . On a minor note , one isn't ready to forget the scene in which Cornillac , in the throes of a fit of madness sets a dog on fire ! ! ! From the lessons learned from his English mentors , Thomas Vincent bestowed his " Karnaval " with a prime writing of characters which he turned to his own advantage by transferring it to a key moment in a northern French city to better construe their minds and give them presence on the screen . That's why everything rings true in this film and I would recommend it to you .
Riffraff Beau Geste .	" La bandera " is one of Julien Duvivier's most famous movies , but it seems a bit dated now . People who saw a version of " Beau Geste " cannot help but be struck by the similarities between the two stories : the " legion etrangere " , as a way out when the police is hot on your heels . But whereas Beau Geste characters are noble , distinguished and chivalrous , Duvivier's hero and his mates are riffraff . The main character , played by Gabin , is a good guy who committed an unpremeditated murder . The best part of the movie , in my opinion , is the description of the fort , the barrack-rooms , the brothel . Here , the hero falls in love with a morrocan girl . There's the rub : she's played by Annabella ( who was Tyrone Power's wife ) who does not look like a North African , not at all , hence the necessity to make her up outrageously , with ugly results . Like in " Beau Geste " , the Arabs are the baddies , period . The courageous legionnaires always call them " les salopards " ( the bastards ) . Duvivier achieves a real tour de force here : we never see the enemy when they attack the little fort ! The poisoned water is a good dramatic idea and the final echoes Edith Piaf's song " le fanion de la légion " . However , " la bandera " , with its military stereotypes , does not equal Duvivier's other pre-war works " la fin du jour " , " carnet de bal " , " la belle équipe " or " pépé le moko " , the latter taking place in North Africa too .
Russian roulette or the ordeal .	Although he is known as an actor , Robert Hossein was a fine film noir director . His " toi le venin " should appeal to people who enjoyed De Palma's " sisters " ( 1973 ) . " Mort d'un tueur " takes a hackneyed screenplay and brilliantly succeeds in surprising . Only the middle part , with strip tease scenes , seems irrelevant padding . A gangster , who was given away to the Police , returns home to take his vengeance . Blending elements from Hawks's " Scarface " ( the man actually in love with his sister who loves one of his accomplices ) and Duvivier's " Pépé le Moko " ( the alleys , the tragic ending ) , and adding a suspenseful scene in an arena where the two men play Russian roulette , in front of the whole city underworld , Hossein made a black and white little gem , where ambiguity is not absent . The flashbacks are smartly included in the plot , and present and past seem to meet when , once again , the hero is given away . .
teenage riot ( in Marc's mind )	In my comment on " the hairdresser's wife " ( 1990 ) by Patrice Leconte , I wrote that this gorgeous movie was awarded by the " Louis-Delluc " price with " le petit criminel " ( 1990 ) . It was only right . Although I consider Jacques Doillon's movie as inferior as " the hairdresser's wife " , it remains interesting and especially devoid of stereotypes linked to adolescence . A lot of directors would have focused on Marc's living conditions , it means on the hero's sociological environment . In Doillon's movie , it's not the case . In the most important part of the movie , he created a condensed and intimate atmosphere with only three characters . Dialogs constitute the key of the success of the movie . It probably contains some of the best dialogs ever written in the French cinema . Thanks to them , Jacques Doillon draws a convincing description of each character but he especially emphasizes on their feelings and their relations . The movie is essentially built on these last two points . Never boring , rather pathetic , they create a real emotion on the spectator and sometimes they don't lack of humor . You also feel that Doillon manages very well his actors who are perfectly at ease in their respective roles : Gérard Thomassin in an unhappy teenager who's clumsily searching someone to love and understand him . Then , there's Clotilde Courau in a protective sister and above all Richard Anconina , a cop torn between two feelings : his sense of duty and the complicity he shows towards his two partners . I think it's his best role and it's clear that he's between the hands of a conscientious and rigorous director . Perhaps , there's one sole weakness : the music that often appears at awkward moments . But apart from this , " le petit criminel " is a warm , fair and mastered movie .
the polar opposite of " Excalibur " ( 1981 )	In Robert Bresson's short filmography , " Lancelot Du Lac " is probably his most dismissed piece of work for evident reasons . The author of such pearls like " Journal d'Un Curé De Campagne " ( 1951 ) and " au Hasard Balthazar " ( 1966 ) chose to adapt his minimal , inimitable style to the fabled tale of the Knights of the Round Table with Lancelot's adulterous love for the Queen Guenièvre . Was it an appropriated choice for a topic whose treatment inevitably required greatness , heroism , violence pertaining to a chivalrous tale ? Well , viewers who aren't familiar with Bresson's genuine cinematographic approach won't approve of it with a basically epic story and the filmmaker seemed aware of it given his cinema is everything but spectacular . But the auteur pushed his ideas to the extreme . So , we have here an austere view of a story usually full of greatness with very little action . The film opens and ends after a fight with bodies falling down , horses running and a desolate battle ground in the heart of a deep green forest . In the middle of the film , the audience will be allowed to watch a tournament which Bresson will reduce to its simplest elements with flags waving , Gauvain and Arthur's looks , shots on some of the horsemen's characteristics like their horses ' legs or their armors . Once again as in many Bresson's works , ellipses are given priority . When the two adversaries collide , one can't properly see the action but just the before and after . Between these rare , fragmented action sequences , the rest is devoted to an aging Lancelot and his relationships with Queen Guenièvre , King Arthur , Gauvain and the other knights . Proud characters have given way to weary ones . The Quest for the Holy Grail was lost and Lancelot attributes this defeat to the guilty love he has for Guenièvre . And he is torn between this serious mistake and the chivalrous demeanor he should adopt for Arthur . Gauvain is stuck in a similar situation between his respect for Lancelot and Arthur with whom he wants to remain faithful . Like in other Bresson works , redemption has a sizable role . Towards the end of the film , Lancelot wants to redeem himself by fighting with Arthur against Mordred . Animals also seem to play a small but vital role . A magpie is often on the branch of a tree facing the Queen's bedroom . It's no wonder this dry overhaul of the Knights of the Round Table baffled many viewers , especially the ones who have never heard of Bresson . Lines full of bitterness , regret or suspicion are recited by models with a monotonous voice and a stone-cold acting lead a film mostly deprived of action and violence . That's why I would only recommend it to Bresson's die-hard aficionados and not for newcomers who will be better served with John Boorman's " Excalibur " ( 1981 ) .
Michel Blanc , the intruder .	When he started walking in the cinema , Patrice Leconte decided first to specialize in comedy . This one , will probably remain the best that he ever made . I found it superior to its predecessor : " les bronzés " ( 1978 ) with its crude and often vulgar humor . So , after he broached the behavior of the tourists when they're on holiday in the quoted movie , Leconte chose to broach a rather dramatic social problem on a tone comedy : the squatters . Either they gather in flats or tiny houses and they can become delinquents , either they ask hospitality to their close relatives or their friends . Here , the movie deals with the second case . Michel Blanc is fired from his job and becomes jobless and homeless . Bernard Giraudeau gives him hospitality and of course , Blanc agrees . As it was to be expected , Blanc's arrival changes completely Giraudeau's way of life and due to him , he's fired from his job too . Moreover , his wife's leaving him . . . Michel Blanc ' performance is worth the detour . An important part of the movie rests on his shoulders ans he's simply irresistible . He's also the cause of vexing situations for the characters . Besides , the set constitutes a plain comedy but funny enough to burst into laughter . Perhaps , the only fault of the movie is the following one : not going deeper into several situations . I especially think about the moment when Giraudeau is on the streets with Blanc . This moment is rather a bit of a mess and Giraudeau quickly succeeds in becoming reconciled with his wife . Apart from that , a pleasant comedy .
The circus is in town	At the time , Feyder's former pupil , Marcel Carné , was beginning to outstrip his master . " Les gens du voyage " is a movie which is worth seeking out because it's the only one , to my knowledge , which takes place in a circus in the thirties in France . And Feyder perfectly depicts its atmosphere : the long line of trailers when the film begins , the men driving the stakes in the ground ( a picture which comes back again and again ) , Françoise Rosay as a lion tamer worrying about one of her animals ' health . . . It's the French granddaddy of De Mille's " greatest show on earth " . What about the screenplay ? It's flawed and melodramatic . A great director such Feyder will always land on his feet but twenty minutes before the end , I was wondering how he would get out of a messy plot . Rosay's husband has escaped from penal colony and takes refuge in the circus where she and her son Marcel work . She does not want that the boy , now 20 , learns the truth about his father and even that the newcomer is his father . Marcel is in love with the circus manager's daughter . But father has bigger ambitions for his girl . Besides , she has a wicked younger sister who is jealous of her cause she secretly loves the boy too . Great scenes : Rosay alone with the lions in the cage as the lights go out ; the little sister , tearing her clothes in a fit of pique to attract her sister's lover's attention ; the final in a big Paris circus and the chase on the roof . Françoise Rosay is the stand-out , the soul of her husband's movie . She is not here an over possessive mother as she was in Feyder's " Pension mimosas " but a woman who got a raw deal and who learned not to trust men anymore . Fabien Loris is cast as his son ; it's an actor who generally plays small supporting parts ( " Children of the paradise " : role of Avril ) The hotel where Pepita stays is called " Hotel du Nord " : a nod to Carné whose eponymous movie was released the same year ?
A talented actor's second effort .	Bernard Giraudeau has always been one of the most ambitious actors of his generation , but his parts were sometimes below par . Fortunately , Scola and Ozon provided him with roles worthy of himself . He tackled directing with a very interesting work " l'autre " , some kind of Wilder's " the big carnival " in reverse . " Les caprices d'un fleuve " is , at least to my eyes , not as moving as his debut , but it nevertheless displays a demanding side which we already felt in " l'autre " . Adapting himself the account of a noble who lived circa 1789 , Giraudeau makes an endearing if sometimes dragging movie . When this gentleman was exiled in 1987 , it was the end of an era , and like La Fayette some years before , the hero discovers wider horizons which make the enclosed atmosphere of Versailles - see the first sequences which feature Jean-Claude Brialy , Lambert Wilson , and other luminaries in cameos - stifling . A marvelous cinematography makes up for the slow progress of the story . Time seemed to stand still in this Africa and his inhabitants whose main wealth stemmed from slavery , whereas in France , it moved at the speed of sound . A revolution happened in the country of Voltaire and Rousseau . . And yet . . . we learn that one of the " heroes " of this revolution dabbles with slaves trade ! Giraudeau's hero , who does not believe in the values of the European " civilization " anymore , has a child with a black woman , and braces himself to an uncertain future .
Signé Pierre Véry . . . . . .	. . . . . a writer whose thrillers were transferred to the screen with success " l'Assassinat Du Père Noel " " Goupi Mains Rouges " " Les Disparus De Saint Agil " . This miniseries , very faithful to the book ( one name or two were changed ) , tells the story of a little boy , Noël , whose father is a millionaire ; but alas he is also a widower and he remarried a woman full of herself with whom he had another child . Poor Noel feels rejected and his attempts to belong to Dominique's pack at school fail because he is the teachers ' blue-eyed boy , making a clean sweep of all the prizes . One day , Noel is abducted . The shy little boy will display a lot of guts and prove himself a resourceful brat . A fine miniseries for the whole family . Some of the actors ( the sinister-looking Daniel Emilfork and Geneviève Brunet were , thirty years later , part of the cast of " la Cité Des Enfants Perdus " ( Jeunet ) , a story of kidnapped children too .
the master and the pupil	In the French humorous show , " les guignols de l'info " , Christophe Lambert often says in a weary tone : " Yeah , I know . All my movies are rotten . " Well , he should think twice before telling silly things . Indeed , " Max et Jérémie " ( 1992 ) is his best movie since " Greystoke " ( 1984 ) . And this terrific movie is perfectly mastered by Claire Devers . This woman's got plenty of nerve to film violence and blood . As it was the case with another French movie " the little criminal " ( 1990 , dialogs constitute the vividness of the movie . They contain a lot of humor that enables to keep the spectator in suspense . It also enables to reduce the seriousness of the dramatic side of the story . But especially , Claire Devers emphasized on the dialogs for a better focus on the relationships between the two men : on one hand , Jérémie ( Christophe Lambert ) : a lost young man who wishes to gain Philippe Noiret's friendship and on the other hand , Max ( Philippe Noiret ) , an elderly man who'll gradually become attached to Max . Little by little , a ( a bit confused but strong ) friendship will link the two men . Obviously , this friendship will have its ups and downs . Apart from this , the action sequences aren't neglected for all that and they turn out to be thrilling . At the end , the whole gives a stable movie and remarkably well constructed . In spite of a few weaknesses ( Claire Devers dressed a caricatured portrait of Jean-Pierre Marielle's assistant and the last twenty minutes tend to run out of steam ) , it's useless to be fussy for this brilliant success . This is arguably one of the best French detective movies of the nineties . At last , one thing I don't understand : how can such a good movie have a rather low mark on IMDB ? It's not fair , it deserves much more recognition .
I'm the marquis de Lafayette !	. . or La Fayette , the French spelling . The first thing to bear in mind is that , at the time , it was the biggest budget France had ever spent for a movie : hence the cast which includes Orson Welles as Franklin - a part he had already played in Sacha Guitry's " si Versailles m'était conté " - , Vittorio DeSica , Jack Hawkins , Edmund Purdom , Liselotte Pulver ; on the other hand , the French stars are not big names : Pascale Audret and Michel LeRoyer were far from being very famous compared with Bardot , Delon , Belmondo , Ventura or Moreau . Other assets were Claude Renoir's peerless cinematography and a lilting tuneful score . But the harsh truth is that Dreville's epic is virtually forgotten in today's French collective memory : it has completely disappeared from dictionaries of films even the ones which feature the worst bombs though . And it's certainly unfair . Michel Dreville has never been an unrecognized genius as his earlier works testify : melodrama - the priceless weepie " la cage aux rossignols " - , biographies - " horizons sans fin " about female pilot Hélène Boucher - , Alexandre Dumas - the first version of " la reine Margot , which , despite of Jeanne Moreau , is inferior to Chereau's remake with Isabelle Adjani . As for his comedies ( " les sept péchés capitaux " , " à pied , à cheval ou en spoutnik " ) , since we cannot say something nice . His best works are probably " copie conforme " , thanks to Louis Jouvet , an actor so great any movie he makes cannot be bad , and this " Lafayette " . " Lafayette ' is not really a biography for Lafayette's story is far from being over after his American adventure : he played a prominent part in the French revolution and even during the Restoration . Michel Le Royer is well cast as the lead : he has youth , panache and enthusiasm going for him and he's credible - it was a hard task because the marquis was barely twenty - : he embodies the end of the courtier , as Louis the Fourteenth wanted the noble to be : the scene with Monsieur , the king's brother is revealing . Lafayette was ahead of his time , a visionary who had read the philosophers and who felt things were about to change : " now liberty has a home " he says , on his way back to France . He could have added " and its home is not mine " . First part takes place in France , after a short prologue which shows Brave New World's plight ; the second one makes good use of the cinemascope for the battles scene . The dialogue is above average . Besides , the director displays respect for the audience : the American and English speak English - there are a lot of subtitles - , and the French French , which , at the time was not that much obvious . Even Lafayette tries his hand at English with a funny accent . And unlike " the patriot " , in Dreville's movie , the English are not sadistic brutes and nasty executionersHistorians are going to say that , for instance , Marie - Antoinette and Lafayette , were not as thick as thieves , and that the queen called the New World hero " Monsieur Blondinet " ( = fair-haired boy , meant pejoratively ) . These are minor quibbles . " La fayette " is not a masterpiece , but it's pretty entertaining .
And justice for no one .	At first sight , Duvivier seems to follow in André Cayatte's footsteps . At the time , the latter director had launched a crusade against all the miscarriages of justice and had begun to champion any good cause going . But further acquaintance shows this : " l'affaire Maurizius " is a Duvivier movie . In Cayatte's movies , the problems are finally generally solved : in " Nous Sommes Tous Des Assassins " , René was granted a pardon , in " Les Risques du Métier " , the schoolteacher was rehabilitated . Even when the story turns black ( " Le Glaive et la Balance " or " Justice est Faite " ) , Cayatte " manages to limit the damage " so to speak . One should note that the young lead , Jacques Chabassol , was part of Cayatte's " Avant le Deluge " ( 1953 ) . In " l'Affaire Maurizius " , no one was saved : the judge has lost his son who is ashamed of his father , the son has lost all his illusions , the gorgeous reluctant femme fatale has turned into a prematurely aged lady , her former lover is now living on the fringes of society , and the chastised innocent . . . . . . his fate is sealed as soon as the film begins . . . . . . . because , when the movie begins , " L'Affaire Maurizius " is an old one everybody wants to forget . That an innocent man may have spent seventeen years in jail does not seem to move the bourgeois judge ( Charles Vanel ) , jealous of his privileges . Little by little , through flashbacks , scenes of the past resurfaces again . The judge ' s son believes in justice and wants to save the prisoner ( Daniel Gélin ) who was " burried alive " . But Waremme ( Anton Walbrook ) tries to explain to him that the society scoffs at the law : while he is talking to the desperate young man , two dancers appear as shadow graphs on the window . This is the key to the film and to Duvivier's black world . " L'Affaire Maurizius " is wrapped in mystery : all the flashbacks are filmed in places which seem secret and where a danger seems impending . The film sets are bare when they depict the past , emphasizing the characters who , unfortunately , with the exception of Vanel , sometimes display a tendency to overact . This misty atmosphere will emerge again in later works such as " Marianne de Ma Jeunesse " or " La Chambre Ardente " . Some objections to " l'Affaire Maurizius " remain : overacting ( Anton Walbrook verges on ridicule ) , and Madeleine Robinson's underwritten part : she barely appears ten minutes whereas she plays a pivotal role in the screenplay . Her relationship with her younger sister ( Eleonora Rossi-Drago ) is only skimmed over whereas it is essential to the plot . However , like almost all the movies Duvivier made , it is a must : his pessimism leaves the viewer no hope : the last scene could be subtitled " out of the blue . . . and into the black , they give you this but you pay for that , and once you're gone you can never come back . . " ( Neil Young )
Luc Besson's debut film	Luc Besson's first work is also his first foray in science fiction , a genre to which he will return fourteen years later with " the Fifth Element " ( 1997 ) . Even if this film was strongly influenced by Hollywood cinema , it is still highly enjoyable . Back in 1983 , " le Dernier Combat " reveals Besson's own approach of science fiction . He takes back a threadbare topic and his efforts are discernible to make a stylish work . Shot in widescreen and black and white , a disaster has destroyed virtually all the population from earth and we will never know what was this disaster and why men can't talk any more . Some barbarian hordes were formed . In parallel , a man ( Pierre Jolivet ) lives on his own and arrives in an unrecognizable Paris where he is received by a doctor ( Jean Bouise ) . There are no words in Besson's work . The characters ' actions and the progression of the events go through looks and gestures . Although the starting point and the backdrop are unnerving , the film has never the look of a despondent one . It seems that the man and the doctor try to reproduce gestures and actions linked to mankind before the disaster . The film opens with the man having sex with an inflatable doll . Later , the doctor tries to make him speak through a machine and he is a painter in his spare time . It's all the more intriguing as these paintings seem to come from the prehistoric times . Following this reasoning , one could argue that the bearded giant ( Jean Reno ) embodies evil and a threat to the efforts deployed by the man and the doctor to regain what finally made a human being . Ditto for the gang of baddies at the beginning of the film . The pessimistic whiff that such a film could convey isn't really at the fore and gives way to a glimmer of hope . Personally , the film could have gained with no music at all , except the one the man can hear with his cassette recorder . Luc Besson was to make better and still entrancing films like this one , he also boosted Pierre Jolivet's career as a director who will leave a patchy work behind him in the future : " Force Majeure " ( 1989 ) , " Simple Mortel " ( 1991 ) , " ma Petite Entreprise " ( 1999 ) or " Filles Uniques " ( 2003 ) .
sex , drugs and rock and roll	One of the cult-movies made in the nineties , often compared ( a bit wrongly ) to " A Clockwork Orange " ( 1971 ) , " Trainspotting " is the revelation of a new talented director : Danny Boyle . If his previous movie " Shallow Grave " ( 1994 ) was not accepted unanimously , " Trainspotting " was critically praised and made a beautiful commercial way , notably in Great-Britain . Danny Boyle's opus is served by a galaxy of actors who are all outstanding ( Ewan McGregor and Robert Carlyle at head ) and whose characters are well-rounded . Moreover , McGregor's voice-over makes the movie more thrilling . It is to be noted that if Boyle perfectly used this device in " Trainspotting " it will not be the case four years later with Leonardo Di Caprio in " The Beach " ( 2000 ) . Then , we deal with a dramatic story , it is indisputable but it is told on a comedy tone so as to avoid the movie to fall in absolute horror and the sordid and of course , this is often black humor that prevails . " Trainspotting " confirms Boyle's master of the directing too . Nevertheless , it includes faults that spoil somewhat the movie . For example , this one , by moments evokes a clip . Besides , in connection with music , there is an excellent original soundtrack even if sometimes we feel that its constant and discreet use surcharges the movie . On another hand , through Mark's trouble with heroin , this is a realistic vision of a British society undermined by unemployment in the eighties . Even if the last movie is full of optimism , it nonetheless remains ambiguous . Indeed , as Mark walks on the bridge and enumerates the things he will know , the picture becomes increasingly blurred . It probably means that Mark's future will not probably be bright . . . " Trainspotting " is a vivid , sometimes raw movie ( the sequences that involves heroin ) but never boring . It deserves to be watched .
The green green grass of home .	In Michel Ciment's book " Kazan par Kazan " which is actually a very long interview ( à la " Hitchcock by Truffaut " ) , the director recalled how painful the filming of " sea of grass " was for him : first of all , he complained for a subject like that SHOULD have been filmed on location and we can find little fault with his opinion ; besides , he had to use the Tracy / Hepburn pairing , two actors he admired but who were miscast here ; " Tracy did not like horses and horses did not like Tracy either " . His wife should have been a frail young girl , which Hepburn was not : " she was clever but she was part of the high society . . " The one thing Kazan seemed to appreciate was her crying ; but reportedly Louis B Mayer watching the rushes complained : her tears does not flow from her eyes , but from her nose ; it looks like snot ! " Among all my movies this is the one I like the least " he concludes . With hindsight , the film retains qualities and I do not think anyway that it is worse than the disastrous " last tycoon " which IMHO , is Kazan's absolute nadir . Hindsight displays its charms . Considering the limitations Kazan was working under , it's a wonder that the scene where Hepburn and Tracy are in front of the " sea of grass " listening to the noise and to the silence ( of the Buffalos - now they are gone - and of the Indians - now in the reservations - ) is really poetic . We can also save the scene of the storm , where the farmer ( David ) has to fight his wealthy neighbor ( Goliath ) . The historical context , the end of the prairie of grass and the coming of the farmers , is interesting . Robert Walker's character , an unstable boy , predates James Dean in " East of Eden " by eight years : too bad the part is underwritten . The fact that he was born of adultery is almost passed over in silence , except for one scene or two . It is not my Kazan's favorite or even among my favorites , but it's a film to watch if , like me , you are interested in the director's oeuvre . . Like this ? try this . . . . . . " Giant " Georges Stevens 1955
To die is to go away / Where ? / in another land . . . . .	The timing was not very good for " Madame X " . It was the sixties and melodrama was not as popular as it was in the previous decade when Douglas Sirk dominated the genre . David Lowell Rich seems to have studied Sirk's works ; by and large , he is a good student . The Sirkesque cast and credits , the huge desirable mansion where a distraught Turner runs after that fateful night , the final trial - which is guaranteed to send the impressionable tearing though two entire boxes of Kleenex ; Keir Dullea's speech for the defense when he praises the love a mother feels for her child and Turner herself crying " forgive me , child , forgive me " make it the most tear-jerker trial in the whole history of cinema . The well known story of Madame X ( it's a remake ) is some kind of adult fairy tale : there's the Prince Charming ( John Forsythe ) , the marvelous child , the cruel mother ( " you're nothing but a shop girl ! Should have stayed on the other side of the counter " ) : too bad Constance Benett's part is so underwritten ; she is obviously an over possessive mother , she seems to be in love with her son . Just see her look just after she's left the room after her first meeting with her new daughter-in-law . Overnight , the princess turns into " Cinderella " , " Donkey Skin " or " SnowWhite " Lana Turner , whose performance in " Imitation of life " ( 1959 ) was particularly good , was certainly an underrated actress . Her best scenes are those when she plays opposite Constance Bennett then Keir Dullea . Like this ? Try these . . . . If you are American . . . . Only Yesterday John Stahl 1933If you are Italian . . . . Vedi Napoli e poi muori Riccardo Freda 1952If you are English . . . . Waterloo bridge Mervyn Le Roy 1939If you are French . . . . . L'Entraineuse Albert Valentin 1938
crisis , what crisis ?	On the same day , Victor ( Vincent Lindon ) loses both his wife and a very lucrative job in his firm . Miserable and hopeless he's looking for his friends and family in the country to tell his personal turmoil and hoping to find some relief . But he only receives indifference or misunderstanding . Only a little man Michou ( Patrick Timsit ) is his confident and seems to be the key to solve Victor's inner trouble . Coline Serreau is known and even celebrated in France for her popular comedy " Trois Hommes et Un Couffin " ( 1985 ) with which she scored a big hit so much so that an American remake followed a couple of years later . Its follow-up , " Romuald et Juliette " ( 1989 ) didn't have as much impact . With " la Crise " , she pored over the mood of French society at the dawn of the nineties and it's a rather gloomy one . Her film could walk a fine line with works such as Gérard Jugnot's " une Epoque Formidable " ( 1991 ) . In this film , Jugnot favored laughter to assess a French society driven by financial laws and having lost human values . Coline Serreau takes back these observations and on a frenetic pace , she also relies on a sharp analysis of French society tangled up in stress and absence of communication but also politics eaten up by dishonesty and bribery . Her methodology to keep smiles on the viewer's face is shrewd : every time Victor meets someone and starts to tell him about his devilish day , he can't finish his story because his friends and family are amid their own problems and it's the opportunity for them to lay their souls bare and to express their formidable honesty and thoughts about who they really are or think . This method works but has also its evident limits in the sense that it makes the film a little monotonous and breathless by moments . But overall , Coline Serreau pulls it off with gusto to make us laugh of our woes . " La Crise " was nominated in several categories at the César awards ceremony in 1993 including Best Female Supporting Roles for Maria Pacôme and Zabou and it's a shame that they didn't catch it . The first one has only 15-20 minutes of appearance while the second one has about half an hour of presence on the screen but one clearly remembers their shows in which they demand to live their lives their own ways . In counterpart , the film garnered the César for the Best Scenario and I have my doubts about it because if Serreau's work is formidable but a little dull in its humorist conception , things go wrong in the last half hour when she adopts a conventional , cozy tone with an acceptation of naive solutions . It throws the film a little off balance and loses a part of its strength . See it anyway , its several ferociously funny moments make it worthwhile and fifteen years later , the thrust of " la Crise " is still a topical one .
I will tell her the blue words , the ones you tell with your eyes	Alain Corneau has been occupying a steady surge in French cinema for more than thirty years now . Topnotch thrillers like " Police Python 357 " ( 1976 ) , " Série Noire " ( 1979 ) , ambitious works with " Nocturne Indien " ( 1989 ) or " Stupeur et Tremblements " ( 2003 ) reveal his strong ability at film-making . " Le Prince Du Pacifique " ( 2000 ) , unworthy of his directing skills is perhaps the nadir of his career . " Stupeur et Tremblements " which was a triumph when it reached the streets signaled a new direction in Corneau's work . In this intimate film , a young woman ( Sylvie Testud ) was the main character and before he shot his work , stories of men were the filmmaker's specialty . " Les Mots Bleus " is an extension of Corneau's new direction in his career with once again a young woman as the main role . It was the opportunity for Corneau to work again with Testud after their fruitful alliance for " Stupeur et Tremblements " and also to deepen his set of themes partly revolving on communication . Three characters are at the core of " Les Mots Bleus " . Clara ( Sylvie Testud ) , a mercurial , neurotic mother who after she saw her grandmother died before her eyes stopped to read and is afraid of words . Her daughter Anna who is deliberately dumb . To try to cure her , her mother takes her to an institution for dumb an deaf children run by Vincent ( Sergi Lopez ) , a manager who behind his solid look reveals zones of fragility and is unable to have a lasting relation with a woman . The school methods bear fruit for little Anna who gains trust in herself although she still refuses to talk to Clara's disappointment . The latter is smitten with Vincent but is afraid to love her . Relationships the three characters weave between them partly constitute the film's attraction . Of the threesome , Anna is perhaps the more mature one ; Clara and Vincent in a way act like children . The former dreads words and can't face the world that surrounds her while the latter in his course amuses the children by aping animals ( in one sequence he apes a gorilla ) . He's also unable to link a love affair with a woman . Bit by bit , they will become easier to get on with each other . Scenery is also a vital element , notably the shed on the beach , a refugee for comforting childhood memories or the institution , a refugee for deaf and dumb children who through drawings let express what's going on in their souls . Like in Jean-Pierre Sinapi's " Nationale 7 " ( 2000 ) which took place in an institution too ( for disabled people ) , the choice of a DV camera for the sequences in the institution give the film a documentary approach and a blue-tinted cinematography serves Corneau's ideas . All in all , the real subject of the film is Clara and her reluctance to discover words and love again . " Les Mots Bleus " didn't have as much impact as its predecessor and its somewhat formulaic , slick master plan clouds its scale of masterwork in Corneau's filmography although there's nothing mawkish here . Corneau's fans may want to watch it but it's not a film to which you would want to return .
Get out of my house !	Nicolas Gessner is very special director : an Hungarian , he made most of his career in France where he is today virtually forgotten , although his sentimental series " le château des oliviers " was a smash some fifteen years ago . After directing Mireille Darc in " la blonde de Pekin " which is pleasant but not very absorbing , he made his two best works in the seventies : " quelqu'un derrière la porte " ( 1971 ) and " little girl . . . . " These works have many similarities : both feature American stars , Bronson and Perkins in the former , Foster and Sheen in the latter ; both sometimes look like filmed stage production , although " little girl " was not , unlike " quelqu'un . . . ' a play ; and murders ; and a mysterious character in both : Foster's and Bronson's ones . I would favor " little girl " over " quelqu'un " though . Part of the reason can be found in the fact that Foster was already a whizz kid and she carries the whole movie on her shoulders , and it's not a small feat to make us forget the numerous plot holes . To think that at 15 , she was already able to dub herself in French - like co-star Mort Shuman , who was enjoying a very successful career in France after writing for Elvis , Spector and many more - . Sheen is also impressive as a disturbing pedophile . In " quelqu'un . . " , Bronson was miscast and Perkins just gambled on his " psycho " prestige . A distant relative of Jack Clayton's " our mother's house " ( 1967 ) , but not as haunting though .
Al Pacino is so tired he can't sleep	Two policemen , Will Dormer ( Al Pacino ) and Hap Eckhart ( Martin Donovan ) are sent in Alaska to make an investigation around the murder of a high school girl . Convinced that the murder was committed by a serial killer , Dormer decides to organize a police raid in an isolated house where seems to live the suspected murderer . But he ( unintentionally ? ) kills his team mate . Fortunately , no-one saw him and because he doesn't want to be suspected , he gives a coherent reason about Eckhart's death which enables him to be saved . But the real murderer ( Robin Williams ) saw him killing Eckhart and starts to blackmail him . It is from this reversal of situation , the cop dominated by the killer , that " Insomnia " draws its originality . Here , several factors ( that play in favor of Williams to the detriment of Pacino ) explain this : Al Pacino's sickness : insomnia which prevents him from sleeping and especially the scenery where the action takes place , Alaska . An apparently peaceful land at least for its inhabitants but dreadful for foreigners , especially for Al Pacino . Indeed , the fact that it is always daylight only makes his sickness worse and makes him vulnerable in Williams ' eyes . It is useful to add that Al Pacino is dazzling as an insomniac cop and the director Christopher Nolan emphasizes on his progressive weakening throughout the movie . On another hand , it is not a coincidence if his name is Dormer . It means " sleeper " in French so I think that only French people who watched this movie can appreciate the irony . With all that has been previously said , " Insomnia " , according to me partly renews the detective movie . The result gives a solid and carefully constructed thriller . The sole shortcoming Christopher Nolan and his crew did is having hired Robin Williams to act the role of the killer . Throughout his career , he has been hired so many times in good roles and here , it is difficult to see him in the shoes of a criminal . Moreover , when he appears on the screen , the movie becomes quite talkative . These handicaps stop the movie from ranking among the greatest thrillers ever made but all the same , " Insomnia " constitutes a very good moment .
37 years after	This is the follow-up , so to speak , of Rouquier's " Farrebique " which he made at the end of WW2 . For that only , it is an unique film . Close to cinema verite , but do not panic , it's not Godardesque stodgy stuff , it's a simple depiction of country life circa 1980 just after the socialists rose to power . Anyway these peasants do not care about politics and they are probably right . The film includes excerpts from the black and white original movie . Sometimes the contrast is startling . Take the scene in the church : a panoramic shot shows first the empty pews before filming the tiny congregation the priest wishes a good Sunday . Even more striking is the empty village square after the mass . " Now they are in a hurry to come back home " a man notices as Rouquier inserts a short sequence of long ago when people used to meet to talk about local politics or other trivia . Now , at home , there is TV . The two farmers seem to be fans of an emission as old as the hills " Des Chiffres et Des Lettres " . What's stupefying is that the man will use the words of this emission ( Consonne , Voyelle ) to communicate with his paralyzed brother , no able to speak anymore . The " patois " which was used in the 1946 work and that was difficult to understand even for a French audience has almost disappeared : isn't the farmer's son a medical arts student ? . During the whole movie , they have never been conceited about it : " He's got to bone up on ! " the mother says and that's about it . The thrashers , the milking machines ( and the washing machines ) have made work easier , but it remains a hard labor though . " I wonder how our mothers could manage " a woman notices . The 1946 work was certainly more interesting for a 2007 audience ; after all the eighties are not so far behind . But one should see , if it's possible , the two works , one after the other .
How to get unnoticed	This is Fernandel's blockbuster . Even before the war , none of his movies had made so much money . Further detailed retrospection indicates that " La Vache et le Prisonnier " thoroughly deserved its success . Even today , when it is on TV , it attracts figures of million people . It is not certainly weaker than Renoir's " Le Caporal Epinglé " although Verneuil is not considered an " auteur " . During WW2 , a prisoner tries to escape from Germany . It will not be a " great escape " . To get unnoticed he will travel with a cow called Marguerite ( = Daisy ) . This unusual pairing en route to the man's homeland is not out of the woods . Based on a true story , this entertaining movie features an unexpected funny ( or sad more like ! ) ending . The whole family can enjoy it : the children will love Marguerite .
All my sons	This movie shows a strong Duvivier influence : as Marie Bell , in " un carnet de bal " ( 1937 ) , was in search of her former beaus , Harry Baur , a man who is getting old , realizes how lonely he is and he decides to look for the sons he had with different women ( hence the title = youthful indiscretions ) . So this is a movie made up of sketches , with four segments , dealing with the four sons . segment one : the smug mediocrity of the first boy repels the old man who sneaks away . segment two : on the contrary , the second offspring is a very talented musician , brought up by his mother and his stepfather , with love and affection . THe old man feels he is in the way and he exits . segment three : coup de théâtre : the third son was not his son , the mother having had twelve ( ! ) lovers at the time . segment four : Madeleine , his last lover , had to sever all links with a family who was ashamed of an unmarried mother . So she decided to take care of a group of orphans . His son is among them , but when the hero comes to see her she does not want to tell him which one is HIS boy . Segment four is , by far , the most interesting , for it displays the Petainist moral in all its splendors and it predates the biggest blockbuster of the Vichy government by one year : " le voile bleu " ( remade in America as " the blue veil " starring Jane Wyman ) . The last woman is everything a woman had to be : a mother , period . And when she had sinned , the only way to redemption was sacrifice , abnegation and honor . A very interesting period piece , definitely worth watching , particularly for Harry Baur ' s fans .
the way that leads to freedom	This is the film-maker of " Independence Day " , Roland Emmerich who made this historic adventures movie which the action takes place in the eighteenth century during the Independence War of the United States . Emmerich manages rather well from this epic movie . Anyway , the result is better than the conceited " Independence Day " . This is a movie rather well made and careful , especially at the level of the ( bloody ) sequences fight . There's also an honorable performance that owes a lot to Mel Gibson , brave and lucid when it's necessary . Heath Ledger , eager to join the army so as to defend his country against the English soldiers . On the other hand , Tchéky Karyo isn't equal to his role . I'm under the impression that he was hired only to make the spectator remember that the USA gained their independence with a little help from the French . Otherwise , he isn't really equal to the performance and he's there just to be decorative . It's also obvious that the screenplay was inspired of several movies . You think about " the Last of the Mohicans " when Gibson sets an ambush in order to set his elder son free . But also " Robin Hodd " , and above all " Braveheart " . However , the screenplay doesn't succeed in hiding a certain manicheism : sadistic English soldiers face Americans settlers filled with good feelings . You can also notice a shy but pointless presence of humor . At last , you find in this movie , some beloved subjects to American movies : strained relationships between a father and his sons but an unexpected event will bring them closer ( here , it's war ) . But also , the difficult choice to join the army , the question of the honor and revenge . This movie only relates a minor episode of the Independence War . In spite of its weaknesses and its slight lack of inspiration , this is an epic movie , sometimes violent but never boring .
Panic room	For Olivia de Havilland's fans like me , " lady in a cage " is a delight . The actress , often alone on the screen , gives a brilliant tormented performance , just before her first " villain " part in " Hush hush sweet Charlotte " . From the very start , we feel something is wrong : this luxury house , with this son saying goodbye to his mom seems too good to be true . Trapped in her elevator , the lady ' s nightmare begins . The cast and credits over cars honking in the streets , some kind of musique concrete was downright disturbing : is there somebody who cares ? does someone show compassion ? Are you all monsters ? the heroine yells as five intruders are burglarizing her desirable mansion . James Caan matches De Havilland all the way and this odd pairing ( they really come from two different generations of acting ) works out fine . It's the first time I've seen a Walter Grauman film and his directing impressed me : all the things , all the pieces of furniture , before the intrusion , seem to have a life on their own . And there's this letter the son has left . We are not given enough time to read it , and we forget all about it but . . . Who is finally the real monster ? If you've seen Mankiewicz's " Suddenly last Summer " ( 1959 ) , you may remember Katherine Hepburn's Mrs Venable in her elevator . . . That over possessive mother . . . For the sixties , an intense violent film . . . not for claustrophobic viewers !
dancing on a volcano .	" LE BEL ETE 14 " : what an oxymoron ! That summer was anything but beautiful , and the characters of the movie do not know that all their hopes and plans will sink like Titanic - the picture of the ship comes back several times - . Claude Rich's last line is scary : " I hope they ' ll have the war ! " His world had already gone : an old aristocrat , short of the readies , who does not accept the new world ruled by the bourgeois class , epitomized by the industrialist played by Philippe Torreton , de la comédie française , and by the doctor who finally grabs the castle which will be turned into a hospital . When the movie begins , it's already the end of the line for the old squire : he's forced to rent out a part of his desirable mansion to the industrialist's family . But even the " new " world is also collapsing : in the heart of the country , the news is leaking out : Sarajevo , Pointcarré and Jaurès are quoted in the dialogue , but all that seems very far away for these people , as if it came from another world . This small microcosm keeps on living in a splendid landscape ; love affairs appear and disappear . The last picture , where all the characters except for the doctor - apparently the winner who takes it all , only the audience knows it's just an illusion - , are dressed in black , because of the noble's sister's death , is an omen : this world is about to fall , and red and black will replace the green green grass of home . Christian de Challonges made very few movies ; the most famous is " malevil " ( 1981 ) a rather clumsy sci-fi effort . But his best work remains " l'alliance " ( 1970 ) in which animals seemed to sense dangers which elude man ; the pictures of the bees , in " le bel été 14 " might be a nod to " l'alliance " . The children burying the birds after a funeral is probably a nod to René Clément's celebrated " jeux interdits " ( 1947 ) " Le bel été 14 " manages to generate some kind of nostalgia that lingers after the viewing , which is quite a feat , considering the immediate future of its characters . In spite of banal love affairs - the worst being the one which concerns the children - this is definitely a movie worth watching . Excellent performances by the whole cast .
on a cold wet December day . . .	" Reines d'Un Jour " is a film composed of 4 subplots . In the time of one hour and a half , the viewer will watch a day in the lives of 4 protagonists . There's Hortense ( Karin Viard ) , a speech therapist who spends the major part of the film with her mobile because she wants to spend the evening with one of her 2 lovers . Either Ben ( Melvil Poupaud ) , either Sherman ( Gilbert Melki ) . Things could take unexpected even derisory , absurd turns for her . In parallel , a young photograph Marie ( Hélène Fillières ) who were present at a wedding and had sex with the groom learns she's pregnant and dismissed from her job . From then onwards , she endlessly roams in Paris . On the other side of Paris , a former chef on the telly Maurice ( Victor Lanoux ) is about to receive a one-time lover Jane ( Jane Birkin ) but time passes by and keeps him waiting . . . At last , Luis ( Sergi Lopez ) a bus driver learns on duty that his wife Michèle ( Clémentine Célarié ) leaves him . Like Marie , he's fired from his job and wanders in Paris too to try to forget his pain . . . In her precedent opus " Rien à Faire " ( 1999 ) , Marion Vernoux demonstrated her own " Savoir Faire " ! It means she took a rather dramatic situation and decided not to stay confined in sullenness . Through the use of a subtle and light cinematographic writing , she managed to bestow her work with a placating , even happy aura . This method worked well in the quoted film so the director did it again for her " Reines d'Un Jour " . The four main protagonists all go through an unfortunate mishap and from the start the film could take a leap into a desperate blackness . There's nothing of the sort . Marion Vernoux prefers to incorporate laughter and to play with her camera and the sound to better reflect their thoughts or illusions . For instance , the viewer can often hear Hortense's thoughts about her lovers and throughout the film as the day fades to dusk the viewer can see her undecided character . And as she can't master the situations she finds herself in she is out of her depth . Another example is Maurice whose dreams or imagination about the meeting with Jane is recreated with the help of a kitsch cinematography with bright colors . So a playful form serves a gloomy content and so the gravity of the film is dismantled by a light , aerial directing constantly reinforced by a delicate music whose similar melody comes back as a leitmotiv . The director didn't also forget to maintain a proximity tinged with sympathy with her characters . And I think there's one major theme Marion Vernoux developed in her film : responsibility . Because the characters all live a drama , they behave in an irresponsible way . The director also gathered a stellar cast with familiar actors who are always a treat to watch acting . When a grave topic is allied with a jaunty treatment and shelves tears for smiles it can work wonders . . .
a movie worth seeing for Daniel Prévost	Oddly , this movie reminded me of " mister Hire " by Patrice Leconte because it's nearly the same subject : a man called Jean ( Daniel Prévost ) is hated by everyone due to his despising and arrogant behavior . He lives alone and leads a mournful life . One day , he's meeting a young man which the temperament is on the other side of his . With him , Jean finds relationship , comfort and evolution . To make Jean's description , Eric Le Roch ( the film-maker ) used the same processes as Patrice Leconte in the quoted movie : Jean is an unpleasant man but in parallel , Le Roch attempts to make him friendly , touching and especially funny ; it's all the more as in the end , you're feeling endearing for this man . Furthermore , an important part of the movie rests on Daniel Prévost's shoulders who reveals himself as a great French actor . Although , the movie isn't as strong as " mister Hire " and the story gives an impression of " déjà-vu " , it's nevertheless well-regulated : Prévost never hams it up and during the sequences with his main partner , he never steals him the show . Le Roch makes his movie with lightness and if it introduces abortive situations , some of them turn out to be both funny and touching thanks to Hélène Vincent's wistful presence . At the end , a heart-warming movie .
Tavernier's tribute to the old wave .	Tavernier's treatment of Simenon takes us back to the veterans time , all those who made great adaptations just before the nouvelle vague and even during its heyday : " la mort de Belle " , Edouard Molinaro's most perfect flick was made in 1963 , at about the same time as François Truffault's " la peau douce " , whose Simenon adaptation would be forgotten if it were not Truffault . Molinaro's " la mort de Belle " and Henry Decoin's " les inconnus dans la maison " have a lot in common with " l'horloger de Saint-Paul ; all these works deal with incommunicability , between people of the same family . For instance , in " les inconnus dans la maison " , a fallen alcoholic lawyer does not care about his daughter anymore and one day very bad things happen ; in " la mort de Belle " a high school teacher sees his life torn apart when he's a suspect when a young girl dies and even his wife who thinks she knows him well has her doubts . Tavernier's first movie was not that much innovative - as works to come would be - as derivative . However , it's a very commendable work , because of Philippe Noiret's sensational portrayal of a peaceful man , who is confronted with tragedy when his son kills a b . . . . . Tavernier's science of pacing a movie already shines : the son only appears in the last quarter of the movie and during at least 15 minutes , the only words he says to dad are " bonjour papa " ; little by little , we feel that father and son stand together , but they do not try to strike back , to find alibis , to avoid the punishment . In a grand gesture , Tavernier does not even film the trial ! A terse comment lets us know about the sentence . The characters - the father , the son and even the girlfriend ( Christine Pascal ) the b . . . raped - remain opaque , their motives remain obscure Liliane , the son's lover has not a single line to say . We will never know why the son and the father were estranged - the scene with the boy's old nanny remains vague . During the last scenes looks matter more than words and when they start talking again , the son concludes : - and what a place ( a noisy visiting room ) for the first conversation in years ! - " we can hear ourselves if we really want to ! " Unlike Tavernier's follow-up " le juge et l'assassin " which was Tavernier's first perfect work , " l'horloger de Saint-Paul ' does not avoid some post-68 clichés that were poisoning the French cinema of the seventies : the bedroom full of " revolutionary " posters , the bad cops-the conversation with detective Jean Rochefort in the train - , the all-things - political which the hero fortunately refuse . It's minor quibble . Considering all the important movies Tavernier would produce in the wake of ' l'horloger " , it's almost even irrelevant . No other director has shown so many qualities in the last thirty years .
a weird and entrancing fantastic movie in spite of its weaknesses	This is a very original fantastic movie and it aims at showing that in fantastic cinema , horrible things don't happen only at night . They can also happen during the day and sometimes in completely unexpected circumstances . " Picnic at Hanging Rock " is like " the Blair Witch Project " . The two movies have got a lot in common : they're deprived of special effects , there aren't any bloody sequences and above all , there isn't any rational explanation on the strange phenomenons that happen . Moreover , both are bathing in a weird atmosphere and they contain a end that leaves the spectator bemused and it isn't here to reassure . However , Peter Weir's movie is inferior to " the Blair Witch Project " because it introduces 3 major faults : it drags on and is sometimes boring and unlike the quoted movie , it doesn't succeed in creating a lasting fear feeling during all the movie . Nevertheless , " Picnic at Hanging Rock " is a truly unique film that shows Weir's talent . This one remains one of the best directors that Australia gave us .
Charlotte Rampling and Ludivine Sagnier stripped bare . . .	In the guide of films by Jean Tulard , one of the very valuable bibles for any French cine buff , Claude Bouniq-Mercier had qualified " Swimming Pool " as " an accomplished work which intrigues and fascinates " . He should have been attributed these flattering words to François Ozon's previous work , " 8 Femmes " ( 2002 ) , arguably his very seminal piece of work and one of the top five movies of 2002 . In this film , the filmmaker transcended the whodunit by incorporating to a plot à la Agatha Christie other cinematographic genres like drama , comedy and especially musicals . Ozon also had had fun by peppered his film with movie-loving details and there was a strong Chabrolesque aura to unearth dark secrets of this bourgeois milieu . And , so the expectations were high for Ozon's next movie . Ozon had the guts to produce another work one year after " 8 Femmes " : " Swimming Pool " . Did Ozon depicted himself in the character of Sarah Morton ? Was he afraid not being able to renew himself and to be marooned to write another movie ? Did he write and direct his 2003 film to eschew at all costs a block which could have been fatal ? Anything goes but he seems to have overcome his fears and cropped a film up with several possible understandings and which isn't here to make the viewer lazy in spite of its little holiday feel because of the landscapes . At first sight , " Swimming Pool " is a film difficult to define and label . It could be a cross between a psychological drama , thriller with a dash of fantastic . " Swimming Pool " seems to be located in the continuity of Ozon's precedent worked and adds to the cohesion of his early work . The director showcases some of his trademarks which contributed in asserting his own style . Thus , there's an evident taste for derision like in the sequence when Sarah , Julie and Franck dance to the sound of a tech no music . It's reminiscent of a similar sequence in " Gouttes D'Eaux Sur Pierre Brûlantes " ( 2000 ) in which the quartet of this film danced on a German dance song . Shocking is also well present . Like in his other films , Ozon likes to put his characters in an isolated , closed space to unearth what's going on in their tormented minds and seems to prefer to film women than men . Here , two women . On the one hand , Sarah , a successful , uptight , frustrated English writer with a bias for alcohol . On the another hand Julie , a brazen bimbo girl who leads a carefree life and collects masculine conquests . The perfect mismatched pair until Sarah begins to show a vivid interest in her partner and the two women start to come together . Sarah seems to envy her partner even if she doesn't declare it straight to her and perceives Julie as an object for her fantasy . The famous swimming pool is the strong contender for Sarah's fantasy to fully express herself . When she arrives in the villa , she's reluctant to dive in it . It's after she better made the acquaintance of Julie that she feels strong enough to act . Especially , Julie will be her source of inspiration to write her new and supposedly drastically different novel . In another extent , Ozon's directing virtually evolutes on the razor's edge , efficiently enough to install a disquieting tension which doesn't really fade away after Sarah is in good terms with Julie . It reaches a climax in the murder sequence and when the writer wants to learn more about Julie's past which seems to be murky , things take an eerie turn . Julie seems to be John's offspring from a first relationship , her mother died in mysterious circumstances and seemed to have suffered of this . Check the sequence in which she hysterically screams " Mum ! Mum ! " . So , like in " 8 Femmes " , Ozon unmasks her two main actresses and things could have stopped there but the director preferred to go beyond with an unexpected twist which destabilizes the viewer . At the end of the film , there is an unexpected twist which gives the inkling that illusion reigned throughout the film and Ozon may have played a trick on the viewer . His or her certainties about what he or she watched are subverted and the first reflex would be to separate what may come from Sarah's imagination and what would be real . In the second case , the sequences when she's in front of her laptop could be strong contenders and the most important part of the film would consist of Sarah's novel unfolding before our eyes as soon as she arrives at the villa . But other points may leave the viewer baffled because they are hard to put in one of the two categories mentioned above . After Julie's arrival , Sarah desperately tries to get through John and she doesn't manage to do it . Is he ashamed of Julie ? Does he refuse to deliver information about her to Sarah ? Ozon said once that he didn't really like to write the scenario of his films and preferred to let the viewer decide what he wanted about the contents of his works . So , up to the viewer to make his brain work about the mystery which shrouds the whole film and its unclear aspects . To quote Bergman : " questions are more important than the answers " . I think that beyond an unlikely relationship between two different women , Ozon showed us the act of creation for an artist in general . So , Mr Bouniq-Mercier , I partly agree with your opinion but I have little doubts about its first part . But it's nevertheless a work which will haunt you for a long time after you've seen it and will probably make your brain work when you think about it . Try to watch several times in a row and if thinking too much causes you headaches , why not watching Ozon's following works which are easier to follow ? : " 5x2 " ( 2004 ) and especially " Le Temps Qui Reste " ( 2005 ) . I relish more on the second work which is perhaps Ozon's best film since " 8 Femmes " .
Spider , men .	" Tarantula " is a good entertaining movie , but it does not cut , however , Arnold's true masterpiece " The incredible shrinking man " . Nothing in this film , in spite of the giant spider , comes close to the scene of the fight between shrunk Grant Williams and the spider in the cellar . Nothing comes close to the scene of the insect / man caught on a cobweb in Kurt Neumann's " the fly " either . Pr Deemer's face is even more frightening than the star-animal itself . Leo G . Carroll is really the stand-out the movie , easily outshining the bland pair of soon-to-be-lovers ( the female part is almost pointless ) . " Tatantula " , despite all the reservations expressed , is a movie which deserves to be watched , because arachnophobia is something we all have inside us , in a latent state .
Chimes of freedom	Although it happens in Flandres , in the sixteenth century , it is actually the occupied France in WW2 . During that period , the directors had to find their inspiration in the past as was so often the case with their movies of that era ( Carné's " Les Visiteurs Du Soir " ) . In 1945 , France was a free country again , and there was no more reason to " conceal " the message ; the directors , especially René Clément , made no bones about it ( " Le Père TRanquille " ) Oddly , " Patrie " ( = homeland , the title is revealing ) is about a Flemish abortive attempt to free themselves from the yoke of their oppressors , the Spanish . The Flemish as the French , the Spanish as the German , and a beautiful woman as a collaborationist . Pierre Blanchar is the leader of the rebels , his mission is to help Guillaume d'Orange get into the town and come to power ; but alas , his best friend , Carlo ( Jean Dessailly ) , is his wife's lover and she is not prepared to see her love sacrificed for the sake of the country . This is a really good drama in costume , with lots of courage , cruelty , treason , and a grandiose finale . Louis Daquin ' s way was very special : in " Nous Les Gosses " ( 1942 ) he put his trust in the future , then flirted with the Vichy ideology ( " Le Voyageur De La Toussaint " , and mainly " Premier De Cordée " ) before celebrating the resistance . Like this ? try this . . . . . " La Kermesse Héroïque " Jacques Feyder , 1935
Endearing movie .	This might be my Jose Giovanni favorite . His third movie , it is perhaps his most endearing one . A really unusual thriller , which uses urban landscapes with great skill . We often seem to be lost in an ocean of windows , which makes sense , because the plot is actually a search . Two cops , a man and a woman , ( Ventura and Jobert ) are looking for a witness for the prosecution . That man seems to have disappeared . So their investigation looks like a treasure hunt . They meet a lot of people , some of whom have known the mysterious guy . They learn that he is a widower living with his daughter . The girl herself is an enigma , being described as a fairy tale princess by some ( Paul Crauchet ) or a vicious Lolita ( the woman with the cat ) . The woman cop even dreams of them , and that sequence is really excellent , as they seem more and more to be a mirage . There is something of John Huston in the conclusion of " dernier domicile connu " ( last known address ) . It deals with cowardice , sadness and despair , one of the harshest endings Giovanni ever filmed . Even if they succeeded in their mission , the two cops realize that they have been manipulated and that they have completely destroyed two human beings ' happiness . Marlène Jobert has perhaps never been better than here . Once a enthusiastic rookie , her despair is intense when the movie ends . Ventura portrays a fallen cop from the beginning : He was relegated to a local police station after having arrested a drunken rich kid . Disillusioned , but still believing in what he's doing , he will become a broken man as the last lines read : life is lost when you did not live your life as you would have liked to . Good directing , fine acting , and as usual , wonderful score by François de Roubaix .
Did she jump or was she pushed ?	She was there one minute Lying in a pool of herselfAnd then she was gone the next With a twisted neck . O she fell from the roof to the ground . . . . A crowd gathers around the building as the cops shout " move along ! " . Someone fell from the terrace of " Larry " ' s luxury flat . Larry ( Michel Auclair ) had gathered for a formal occasion his ex-wife ( Darrieux ) , his wife ( Corinne Calvet ) , his fiancée and his mistress . An ominous stormy evening in a chic apartment with champagne served by a Chinese butler . There was a bad moon on the rise ; it seemed that someone was going to get killed tonight . But which of the four women ? The ex-wife ? She crossed a lot of peopleSome she called friendsShe thought she'd live foreverBut forever always ends . Darrieux portrays a painter who remained loyal and true to her friends , which her ex-husband did not . The fiancée ? She used to live the life she used To live life with a vengeance And the chosen would dance The chosen would dance in attendanceThe fiancée is a spoiled child , she thinks that her dad's money can buy her anything . She's pregnant by a student who disappeared but she won't care if Larry passes for the father in her folk's eyes . The wife ? She used to have style She used to have style and to use itAnd they say it turned badWhen the truth came around and she refused itShe married Larry just because thanks to him , an unscrupulous journalist , her false suicide made the headlines . ( It's thoroughly credible : a French actress did that in 1947 ) Like Larry , would do anything to get fortune and fame . The mistress ? They did not find no killerand they did not find no note . Maggy is a shady lady , who seems to blackmail Larry ; he ' d like to recover a receipt she owns . This is a fine film noir by Henri Decoin , which does not equal his best in the field ( " non Coupable " " La Vérité sur Bébé Donge " ) , but where the suspense is sustained till the very end and its unexpected twist . The flashbacks are introduced in an unusual aggressive way . They begin with bells : they herald a wedding but they sound like a toll . Darrieux and Auclair would team up again in Périer's " Meurtres en 45 tours " ( 1960 ) Many lines of this comment were taken from the lyrics of Richard Thompson's extraordinarily gloomy song " Did she jump " on his " Shoot out the lights ' majestic album ( 1982 ) .
everything is alright when you are on the dole	" Rien à faire " is a watchable and enjoyable flick for one main reason . Marion Vernoux , the director had intuition by choosing Valeria Bruni-Tedeschi for the main role . It is a real joy to see fer acting on the screen and her big talent , her soft voice are widely sufficient to justify the vision of this film . It is all the more beneficial as she's ably assisted by her main partner Patrick Dell'Isola . Marion Vernoux put very well in parallel her two main actors ' living conditions . The contrast constitutes one of her best weapons between the naive and the simple-minded Marie and Pierre who appears as a lucid and clever man . This contrast is highlighted when the director evokes difference and misunderstanding about several points commented by the two characters . Another interesting detail : the supermarket plays the role of meeting between the two universes . Then , the author built her movie around one of the biggest plagues at the end of the twentieth century : unemployment . So , you could expect to discover a bleak and hopeless atmosphere . It is not the case . The relative seriousness of the situation remains confined in the background . A certain joy of living comes out of the film . Marie and Pierre are jobless but while searching for a job , they take time to know themselves , to help each other and eventually to fall in love . Marion Vernoux lets us suggest the reasons why they become lovers . You feel that Marie gets on rather badly with her husband ( Sergi Lopez ) . As for Pierre , he falls in love with Marie , mainly because he doesn't succeed in finding a job again . However , this work isn't without a few faults . Certain sequences can be judged as conventional ( like the one when Pierre explains to Marie why he wants to put an end to their love affair ) and I think an extra touch of passion would have given the movie more strength . Anyway , I repeat it : this movie is worth watching especially for Valeria Bruni-Tedeschi and given the treatment Marion Vernoux made of her subject , her work can be taken for a cousin of the movie : " en avoir ou pas . . . " ( 1995 ) by Laetitia Masson .
From Ian Fleming novels to the screen . .	This is , along with " Thunderball " my all-time favorite Bond . These two movies were the last to follow just about Ian Fleming's plots . After his death , the writer asked the scenarists to write original screenplays while keeping his titles . This may account for the long and steady decline of the stories after " Thunderball " . Even a genuine artist like Roald Dahl could not save " you only live twice " . Not that Fleming's novels were that much good . What he wrote was very flat but it was daring , bold for the time . The movies ( the first ones that is ) are much more entertaining , but they are also watered-down ! People who read " Goldfinger " do know that the main Bond Girl character is Tilly Masterton ( who is killed in the movie by Odd's hat after a ten-minute appearance ) . The scenarists treated the character as anyone of them would have done with a gay character at the time . In the book , Tilly who is a lesbian meets Pussy Galore and falls in love with her ( not with Bond ! ) . She dies only at the very end of the book , the same way . Pussy Galore is a lesbian too - in movie it's suggested : her clothes , her swagger , her female pilots - but it's kept to the minimum . In the book , Pussy changes totally after meeting Bond , claiming she came to hate men because in her native state " a virgin is a girl who runs faster than her uncle " . What remains amazing is that the censorship did accept the very suggestive name " Pussy Galore " ( the scenarists wanted to change it for " Kitty Galore " but an article in an English magazine which showed " Prince Charles and Pussy " made them change their mind . A scene which scared me to death when I saw it in the movie theaters when I was 12 was that of the Golden Girl . The scenarists did a good job here : in the book , James Bond does not see Jill Masterton's body , he's been told the horrible story by sister Tilly just before both get captured by Goldfinger . Fleming's obsolete circular saw had been smartly replaced , by a laser beam . All in all , Guy Hamilton's film is better than Fleming's book . His sense of space ( and of humor ) made " Goldfinger " the most appreciated of all James Bond . Quite rightly so .
Business is business	Denys De La Patellière was never much of a director but , who could be wrong with a cast including Gabin , Pierre Brasseur , Jean Dessailly , Bernard Blier and many more ? The cast and credits introduce the characters , à la Sacha Guitry : these persons are VIPS , proud of their Legion D'Honneur or of being part of high society , academies and the whole shebang . Then we attend the funeral of the old " poet " of the family ( who wrote sonnets for Sainte Blandine but did enjoy saucy games ) , during which the priest insists that the Lord moves in mysterious ways and fortunately he did give the money to people who were good Christians ( meaning : not to the riffraff ) . With the exception of the son ( and his wife ) all the characters are hateful ; even the right-wing anarchist is a selfish false rebel and a despicable two-faced person . The boss , played by Gabin , is a self made man-though , in the only scene when he shows some humanity , he reveals his parents had five servants ! - , who pushes people out of his way and cannot stand getting old : he lets his son manage one of his factories only to see him fail ! Audiard's lines are full of bite ; a propos of a general : " I'd never seen him in such a despair since June 1940 , . . . when he lost his tin trunk ! " ) Like this ? try these . . . . . " Les Affaires Sont Les Affaires " Jean Dreville ( 1942 ) " La Vie De Plaisir " Albert Valentin ( 1943 ) " La Rupture " Claude Chabrol ( 1970 )
Loachesque .	Why is it rated so low ? Is it because it has no stars ? What's the problem ? " La ligne 208 " is a simple beautiful film , and despite its rather melodramatic ending , it has Kenneth Loach accents . Bruno is a bus driver in a working-class suburb , where a lot of Arabs live . He's himself married to the lovely Djamila . One day , he's stabbed by a young beur ( = second-generation North-African living in France ) . After his convalescence , he's no longer the same man . This movie depicts everyday life in a not-so-rosy background ; for narrow-minded people , it might seem racist . But if there're young Arab louts , we also meet Djamila , a friendly wife who loves her man dearly , and mainly her mother who takes on all the needy people of the neighborhood . We also see the far right ( the Renaissance party ) and its sinister members . Bruno ' s routine is depicted with sensitivity ; his job , his football and his wife make his life worthwhile . After the attack , Bruno can no longer cope with the world outside . He's drifting and a shattered man . Most of the time , the dialogue rings true , and the actors are convincing .
Twelfth night .	How unfair ! After this delightful comedy , Marie-Claude Treilhou could not direct another movie until recently , and anyway , that last effort is impossible to see . Not only MC Treilhou directed this gem , but she also wrote the witty lines . She had also a dream of a cast with such luminaries as Danielle Darrieux and Micheline Presles . There are wonderful scenes , which take place in various locations , including a graveyard and a Chinese restaurant but the best remains the scene when the two sisters have an argument about . . . . the Immaculate Conception ! Behind the humor , there's a darker side in " le jour des rois " : regrets , fear of death , and the drag it is getting old . It should have been one of the most celebrated French comedies of the nineties . It fell into oblivion . How unfair it is !
The Red and the Black .	When I was a child , I saw the trailer : it was the story of a princess in love with a shepherd in my child's mind . And of course I did not know who Rossellini was . I had to wait twenty years or so to have the opportunity to see the film . The precedent user is completely right and his comment is more than useful : Martine Carol's part was reduced to nothing or almost nothing . She only appears at the beginning of the movie then she disappears after two or three scenes , leaving the lion's share to co-star Sandra Milo . The first thirty minutes are very hard to follow and the story really begins when Vanina visits Pietro , a Carbonaro who was injured after his escape from San Angelo Castle and taken in by her father whose motives remain a bit obscure ( the precedent user wrote that thirty minutes were cut and that they were essential to understand them ) . After a muddled beginning , the film hits its stride and remains absorbing till the very end . Rossellini is one of my favorite Italian directors and even when he was sub-par , he was better than most of his colleagues . The most original thing in Rossellini's work is his great interest in history and in Christianity . From the Fascist years ( " l'Uomo della Croce " ) to the birth of Neorealism ( " Roma Città Aperta " , " Germania Anno zero " ) and from the Bergman years ( " Giovanna d'Arco al Rogo " and " Europa 51 " ) to the final years ( " la Presa del Potere di Luigi XIV " is the best film about the Sun King I know ) . History and Christianity are both present in " Vanina Vanini " : Vanina is an aristocrat of the past , she cannot feel History move , she ' s always a prisoner of a decadent religion , which is still firmly entrenched in the conflict good / bad and she's still afraid of sin and damnation . In direct contrast to her , we have Pietro , an educated carbonaro who was influenced by the French Revolution " which was not made by the populace but by enlightened minds " . Between Vanina's faith and Pietro's solidarity with his companions there is no room for a love as burning as theirs . Based on a short story by Stendhal , this is probably the most overlooked of all Rossellini's works . Laurent Terzieff is a very gifted actor : although the most " Nouvelle Vague " of all the thespians of the era ( late fifties / early sixties ) , he was never hired by Godard and his clique and found his best parts with " old " brilliant directors ( Marcel Carné , Henri-Georges Clouzot , Claude Autant-Lara )
when writer rhymes with killer	Possible Spoilers . . . Darius is a man of a theater with a strong taste for alcohol which enables him to write his plays and bear success . His last play was a triumph but his last fit of alcohol also destroyed him . So , he decides to undergo treatment for alcoholism . Six months later , by coming back to Paris , he discovers with astonishment the announcement of his new play and he forgot to write it . This situation makes him anguished and it's all the more serious as he is out of inspiration . One day , he accidentally kills his cat and by chance , inspiration comes back . Will Darius keep on commit murders to finish his long-awaited play ? By reading this summary of the story , it's very tempting to make a comparison with " Barton Fink " ( 1991 ) by the Coen brothers . Indeed , the characters of Darius and Barton Fink have got a lot of common points . Both wear glasses and have brown hair . Both are talented and promising writers . Both find themselves in the same situation : they have to write a work but they are out of inspiration . To crown it all , both are surrounded by either rather unpleasant characters that put pressure on them , either nice but intrusive neighbors . " Le créateur " is a film that confirms the originality of Albert Dupontel's cinema . First , what strikes is the directing . Of course , not always mastered but inventive and sometimes crazy , it contains quite a lot of clever visuals : the subjective camera through the computer screen and the eyes of the cat . Moreover , the dreamlike sequences are particularly successful where we can notice a deepen work on the light . Then , a few supporting roles suggest a delightful performance , beginning with Darius ' brother . " Le créateur also enjoys a not inconsiderable advantage : black humor . About it , the best sequence : is the following one : when Darius receives kitten from Chloé Duval with a little note : " Go back to work . Chloé " . But Albert Dupontel especially plays with the spectator . During an important part of the movie , you may believe that the script contains a fault at this level : Darius reveals that he manages to write after he drank and while he's asleep . Although it happens ( or seems to happen ) in the movie , this revelation doesn't seem plausible . Another thing that is weird : the more Darius commits murders , the more his play speeds up but actually you never see him write his play . However a final and unexpected coup de théâtre makes all doubts forget and makes the movie consistent . A fine black comedy . After " Bernie " ( 1996 ) Albert Dupontel scores and signs .
Old man inside a young one .	Penn was 30 when he made this movie , and it seems to be a mature director's work . Although it takes place in America , it has an European sensitivity ; in a nutshell , it recalls John Cassavetes ( to whom the film is dedicated ) and Kenneth Loach . Connection with John Cassavetes ? Penn refuses any dramatization ; the mother's death ( Sandy Dennis has only a cameo ) is totally non-melodramatic : a short scene between the father ( almost unrecognizable Bronson , in a part diametrically opposite to his usual he-man performances ) and Joe , another one between the two brothers , in which emotion is so subdued it takes a stranger - Dorothy , Frank's girlfriend - to shed a few tears . No dramatization too when Frank smashes the man's face in : we only see Frank's bloody face . Frank was a Vietnam veteran , but never Penn uses it as an excuse or an explanation as far his behavior is concerned : no flashbacks , no bad dreams , no hints at the war he had to fight , no clichés . Joe is a good man , he's an Abel who wants his brother to find his " delicate balance " although he does know it's impossible . It seems that this impossibility has its roots in childhood , as Penn insists on the picture of the little boy dressed as a cowboy with a pair of revolvers . Some are born to endless night , some are born to sweet delight . And here's the connection with Loach : like him , he focuses on ordinary people , on the small joys of their routine life . Joe dreams of a simple happiness , between his wife and his kid . He knows that life is hard , but he wants to hope against hope , and his nephew's birth is to him one of these sweet delights he has learned to content himself with . The last sentence is a message of hope , and God knows how much we need it . The late Laura Nyro wrote this line : " and when I die , there will be a child born to carry on " .
scary , thoughtful and satisfying which is fine with me	These last years , apart from the rendering of popular comic strips and the adaptation of TV series for the big screen , American cinema feels a vivacious interest for Oriental culture , especially the Japanese one . Quentin Tarantino's violent and hollow " Kill Bill " ( ) was supposed to be an homage to the samurai movie ( but I'm not a Tarantino buff by a long shot ) . In the derivative " the Last Samurai " ( 2003 ) , Tom Cruise discovered the secrets and treasures of Japanese civilization while Sofia Coppola used the city of Tokyo as the backdrop for her triumphant " Lost in Translation " ( 2003 ) . Gore Verbinski chose a more direct and easy way to get interested in Japanese culture : to make a remake of a Japanese movie which became a sleeper : " Ringu " ( 1998 ) . Against all odds , he made a killing with it although he's an uneven director . " Mousehunt " ( 1997 ) was a formulaic but enjoyable comedy but " the Mexican " ( 2001 ) was a lame movie . Some friends had told me : " don't watch " the Ring " , it's a hokey movie " . I think they misjudged it and I found this supernatural thriller quite intriguing and gripping . It has enough commendable stuff in store to grab the audience . I haven't seen the original movie and so I will avoid any comparison . The starting point promises great things and Verbinski will deliver them throughout his flick . The main character , Rachel wants to investigate about a mysterious and cursed videotape which causes the death of the viewer seven days after the latter watched it . What do these outlandish and eerie images mean ? What lies beneath them ? At her own risk , she and her son watch the video . She has one week to find out the meaning and the omen of the video . " The Ring " could well illustrate this famous premise : " to understand evil , we've got to go back to the sources . . . " . What distinguishes " the Ring " from other horror stuff of these last years is that there's a solid scenario which holds water until the very last minutes of Rachel's adventure and shelves quite an important number of formulaic ingredients . Special effects which have seemed to become the backbone for many horror flicks are used only when necessary and without flashy effects . Still better , Verbinski shows respect for the audience by clarifying as much as possible obscure points of the story . On an unhurried pace , Verbinski takes all his time to film Rachel's investigation . His directing is also worth the price of admission . It is well-crafted and set with clockwork precision for the schedule of spooky moments . Besides , what is notable in " the Ring " is that Verbinski delays as much as possible chilling sequences to better play with the viewer's nerves . This entails an unsettling aura which helps to convey a latent tension . Lighting and makeup shouldn't also be forgotten . The thrust of " the Ring " isn't only to entertain and to make shiver . It is also doubled by a reflexion on the power of the image . One of the images of the film depicts a woman in front of a mirror looking at the camera . So , she's also looking at the viewer . This is unhealthy voyeurism that the movie denounces like the insensible media which expose to the mainstream , woes and sorrows of the victims and so manipulate the viewers ' fears . The sequence during which Ann Morgan's husband is incensed by Rachel's will to learn more about Samara rings thoroughly true . Moreover , these seemingly maladjusted images embody symbols : the chair and the lighthouse illustrate loneliness , the figure at the window ( a hint at " Psycho " ? , 1960 ) might symbolize parental severity . That said , Verbinski's genteel piece of work isn't exempted of drawbacks . Rachel's little boy is a cardboard character , a vague cousin of Haley Joel Osment in " the Sixth Sense " ( 1999 ) . When Samara gets out of the well and the screen to kill Rachel's companion , it's nearly Punch and Judy and the first sequence with the two female students in their twenties something , all alone in a house in which strange phenomena and false alarms occur . . . well , you get the picture . But they're minor quibble and don't overflow too much on the thrill of the vision . I repeat it : I haven't seen the Japanese ambassador but when a remake is able both to scare with reserve , without flashy special effects and to make the viewer think about what he watches , it can be gratifying . And in the case of " the Ring " , rightly so . . . A sequel " the Ring 2 " opened last year . Is it worthwhile ?
Pigalle blues .	François Truffaut's protégé directed by Julien Duvivier ! I was skeptical about it . I really hate Leaud's acting which represents for me the worst of the French cinema , the so called works reserved for the elite , the likes of Godard and Rivette . I've got to make amends : Jean-Pierre Léaud - who had just made " les 400 coups " - manages to stay very natural , very convincing , nothing of the affected acting which would be his late sixties trademark . Léaud got a raw deal during his childhood , they say , and we can feel it every step of the way along the " boulevard " . The simple nature of " Boulevard " may mean that some viewers will pass it over quickly - or dismiss it as a " 400 coups " remake - since it's a grower , but spend some time with it and it becomes clear that it's really Duvivier's world , a world that existed long before Truffaut began to work . " Boulevard " depicts a colorful microcosm : that of Montmartre / Pigalle fifty years ago . But what lies beneath is Duvivier's noir philosophy : Man is evil , period . The best scenes are the ones which take place on the roofs near a huge neon sign ; from a distance , when the Sacré Coeur is lit up at night , the young hero is full of hope ; but when he knows the other side of the picture , that is to say when he's got to live in a world made by man , it's another story . With the exception of the two gay artists - and the scene when Leaud poses for them as Narcissus is worth the price of admission - , the hero is searching someone he can put his trust in : The boxer ( Pierre Mondy ) is a washout more pitiful than really perverse . Just hear Leaud scream " Tocard ! Tocard ! Tocard ! " ( = dead loss ! ) The two female characters : the bitch ( Magali Noel ) and the pure young wop girl , they are all much of a muchness . And finally the father : he left his son when he got married again . Duvivier's genius shines in the sequence where a desperate Leaud comes to his father's place and begs for some Francs . Duvivier needs only one shot to depict the stepmother : behind her till , she resembles Germaine Kerjean in " Voici le Temps des Assassins " ( 1956 ) , Duvivier's latter days ' masterpiece . SPOILER : the final on the roofs with Leaud destroying the neon sign and the father coming to his rescue is a faux happy end : when the picture fades to black , you can hear both of them laugh , a sinister laugh over Jean - Claude Pascal's melancholy song . NB : In " le Diable et les dix Commandements " , the segment starring Alain Delon , Madeleine Robinson and Danielle Darrieux would come back to childhood tragedy .
Pearls before fine ( people ) .	The first part will puzzle Borzage's fans because it's not his usual style : it's a comedy and the fans of " little man what now ? " " no greater glory " or " lucky star " may not get something out of it . Not that Borzage had not broached comedy before : one of his first talkies was " they had to see Paris " , a sometimes ponderous satire of American naiveté in France , a country Borzage particularly loved ( see " Seventh heaven " or " hearts divided " . " Desire " begins in France with a nice shot of " les Toits Sous Le Ciel De Paris " . The scenes between the jeweler and the shrink are sheer genius and have inspired since many screenwriters . Gary Cooper as the naive ( not so naive anyway ) American and Marlene Dietrich as the elegant glamor false countess make an ideal pairing : he is hot , joyful , singing and she is cold , remote , suave and there is a special chemistry between them ( there are other ladies with whom Cooper was particularly brilliant : two good examples are found in " unconquered " with Paulette Godard and " cloak and dagger " with Lili Palmer , another German actress ) This is also the movie where you ' ll find the longest honk in the history of cinema . The only movie where they're talking international politics without being political . Towards the end , the movie almost turns dramatic , notably when aunt Olga tells Dietrich about love which is more valuable when it remains impossible . This is not among my favorite Borzage ( considering " three comrades " " mortal storm " and " strange cargo " were still to come ) but it's really much fun to watch and it is to be recommended .
a successful tribute to Tex Avery	What a pleasant comedy ! Here's a movie that brings back a subject which was specific to the cartoons from the forties and fifties : the game of the cat and the mouse . Here , there's a real mouse and the cat is epitomized by the Schmuntz brothers who wish to get rid of her in order to sell an old but expensive house . The more the film advances , the more the traps prepared by Lars and Ernie Schmuntz are worked out : it begins with the simple , trivial trap : the mousetrap and it ends with the appearance of the mouse-exterminator ( an unexpected and irresistible Christopher Walken ) . In short , what it seems to be a child's play at the beginning of the movie , ends up becoming a merciless fight in which there'll be no winner , no loser . . . Gore Verbinski adopted an inventive and clever making and he rightly choose his actors . Nathan Lane and Lee Evans form an ideal duo , not very far from the legendary Laurel and Hardy . They've got a different personality but are united to kill this mouse . Moreover , the movie doesn't only focus on this " mouse hunt " but also on the Schmuntz brothers ' efforts to earn money in order to save their father's string factory ( a world without string is chaos . . . ) . Let's add some hilarious and efficient gags ; the movie pays a tribute to Tex Avery . Dialogs that kick the bull's eye and some cues are powerful such as : " in this mouse's mind , you are the intruders " says Walken to the Schmuntz brothers . At last , the real mouse is , of course , a little pest ( she's even compared to Hitler with a tail ) but in parallel , Verbinski attempts to make her touching . At the end , a comedy without too many claims but efficient enough to please to a large public .
the old man and the child	Julien ( Michel Serrault ) is a bitter old man in the midst of an emotional desert . His collection of butterflies constitutes his sole passion . One day , he makes his new little neighbor's acquaintance , Elsa ( Claire Bouanich ) , visibly neglected by her mother but looks unfavorably on her intrusion in his life . One day , he's going to the Alps to try to find a rare species of butterfly , the Isabelle and for his greatest pleasure , Elsa invited herself to the trip . . . If you ever want to spend an evening in front of a DVD and if you search for originality , then this Philippe Muyl's flick hasn't your name on it . How many times have we seen the eternal recipe of a friendship story between a grumpy old man and a little girl as fresh as a daisy ? Making Julien and Elsa go into the Alps to try to discover the Isabelle is a pretext to bring them together and make them know each other . At first , it's hostility . At the end , complicity prevails . Between the two poles , a scheduled psychological evolution . In short , on the surface " the Butterfly " ( 2002 ) smells the reheated . However , although Muyl has limited talents as a film-maker ( the success of " Cooking and Dependences " 1993 is to be attributed to the tandem Jean-Pierre Bacri / Agnès Jaoui ) , there's something warm in his work . The presence of the little Claire Bouanich is partly responsible of it . She's so gorgeous of freshness and spontaneity that it would take a heart of stone to resist her . Definitely no Shirley Temple . She sees in Julien , the grandfather she would have liked to have and especially an experienced person to take care of her . Getting in contact with him , she learns life with its joys and sorrows and her hill-walking is rich in learning lessons so that it's nearly an initiatory travel for her . Beside her , Michel Serrault is excellent as usual . Tenderness for his two main characters , preposterous explications but adapted to a child's faculties of understanding to bring touches of humor ( did you know that shooting stars are locks of hair God loses ? ) . Philippe Muyl mixes these two things and by letting oneself slip into this touching story , one just has to be charmed along the way and the work is done . And it works rather well . There's a feel-good factor that dominates our minds throughout the projection and sometimes it's comforting to feel this . Moreover , the wild beauty of the Alpin countryside is highlighted to add a decent amount of poetry . But probably to avoid a break of tone , the director erased as much as possible dramatic sides of the story , particularly the hateful misunderstanding according which Julien is suspected to have kidnapped Elsa when she left of her own free will . During the time the two protagonists are in the mountains , this point is taken to the back seat and after Elsa fell into the hole and help rescue her , Julien is taken to the police station but we can watch him leaving it rather freely without any trouble . Philippe Muyl glossed over this point . Fortunately , that doesn't muck up the bliss of the projection but beware Mr Muyl ! You came close to disaster ! At the end of the road , the most cynical ones will only probably see a simpering flick without any real depth and tailor made to furnish an evening in front of the telly . As for the others : if you are sick of watching violent or bloody movies à la " Kill Bill " ( ) , why not having a break with this certainly stereotyped product but so cute which surfs on the wave of unexpected popular movies like " une hirondelle a fait le printemps " ( 2001 ) through the simple philosophy it brings out : earth connection , a return to the basic pleasures of life .
this is a song Charles Manson stole from the Beatles and we're stealing it back !	When U2 arrives in the fall 1987 to start the second leg of their American tour to promote " The Joshua Tree " ( 1987 ) , they already filled with enthusiasm millions of Americans with their masterpiece and they were showered with praise by virtually all musical critics but also important newspapers ( the magazine Newsweek even put them on the cover ! ) . The amount ? Bono and his band were crowned the biggest rock and roll band in the world . A status which isn't easy to assume and when one has a rock and roll masterpiece under one's belt , delivering it a follow-up is a difficult task . Maybe that's why the most famous Irish quartet had the idea to make a film accompanied by an album : to try to forge ahead and to take a new musical direction . So , " U2 : Rattle and Hum " ( 1988 ) is a documentary which goes back over the band's tour in America where they alternate concerts and cultural discoveries ( the visit of Graceland ) . Their album " the Joshua Tree " had already expressed their fascination for America , the movie " Rattle and Hum " confirms it . The director Phil Joanou ( Martin Scorsese turned down this role ) also filled his work with interviews and recording sessions which took place after the tour in 1988 . Each member's disposition is revealed in these interviews but also throughout the movie and during their tour especially with concerts . So , in Joanou's opus , Bono and his men reaffirm their positions on a social , cultural and above all musical point of view while not forgetting their Irish roots . Concerning music which constitutes the backbone of the movie , the band explores several facets of American music . The Stax-soul tribute " Angel of Harlem " , the blues " When Love Comes to Town " with a prestigious guest : BB King , " I Still Haven't Found What I'm Looking For " in a gospel version show a progressive Americanization of the band . But in parallel , not to lose their identity , the four members remain faithful to their musical influences ; either it is the sinewy " Desire " or the atmospheric " Heartland " that sounds like a " the Joshua Tree " outtake . Hence an impression of hodgepodge : the tracks cut in studio are rather badly linked up . It is difficult to let oneself rock with beautiful heavenly flights then to follow with unusual tracks for the band without losing the thread . That said , the musical trimmings that somewhat hinders the movie didn't stop Bono and his men to write some of U2's best songs . On another extent , Phil Joanou's technical feats enable the spectator to attend the concerts as if he were on stage with the band . The latter is presented in this state like we would imagine them for the ones who have never seen them in concert : fiery , feverish , passionated by their music and ready to make a declaration aiming at peace in Northern Ireland and why not in the rest of the world ( Bono's words in the middle of Sunday Bloody Sunday " ) . And I address the fans of the band who may have the album but not seen the movie and the casual listeners : a good part of U2's hits of the eighties and notably from " the Joshua Tree " are performed on stage : " Bad " , " Where the Streets Have No Name " , " With or Without You " . I also think that having shot the movie in black and white and in color gives it a arty side . At the end of the day , it's a worthy but suicidal undertaking . Indeed , the limited commercial career of Joanou's opus clearly shows once again that this kind of film is seldom successful in the theaters in spite of the fact that the video was a best-seller in the Anglo-Saxon countries . And for U2 , the eighties ended in a little rough way but fortunately , the nineties will begin ( and for me end ) triumphantly with " Achtung Baby " ( 1991 ) .
Beyond any moral .	This is a true story and the heroine is not unlike Louis Malle's hero " Lacombe Lucien " . They are too coarse , too immature to realize what they are doing . Lucien could have opted for the Resistance , but he's deemed too stupid by the schoolteacher and he winds up in Collaboration . Chabrol's heroine only wants to " help " her neighbors before she realizes she can earn a lot of dough with abortion . Chabrol watches his character as an entomologist , as she makes her way through those troubled times : the world has gone mad , and anyway is abortion worse than what the authorities are doing with the Jews ? Maréchal Petain's France was so humiliated that it tried to make up with it by focusing on " morality " . The heroine could make also think of Violette Nozières , another Chabrol movie which also featured Huppert . And she's also akin to Sandrine Bonnaire's character in " la cérémonie " . All are women overtaken by events , all are victims of a well-meaning society , Chabrol's trademark . " Une affaire de femmes " is certainly a good work although it lacks the sweep and the directing innovations of his late sixties / early seventies classics .
50 dead people in a coach found at the bottom of a lake , Richard Borhinger who's running after Catherine Deneuve . What can it mean ?	With hindsight , " Agent Trouble " effortlessly stands out in Jean Pierre Mocky's copious filmography . The botched job that mares many of his efforts is virtually absent except in the tail end that smells alacrity . Instead , we are entitled to a story built and honed with clarity and even if the directive line is derivative as a whole , the film gathers pace as soon as Richard Borhinger runs after Catherine Deneuve who wants to understand what's going on around the death of her nephew Victorien ( Tom Novembre ) and the mystery of these 50 dead people in a coach found at the bottom of a lake in the mountains . The choice of the scenery adds to the pernicious charm that shrouds the film , notably these snowy mountains that give a sultry sensation . A tight editing and an entrancing music increase the pleasure and it's noticeable to note down the disenchantment that touches many of the characters , either it is Borhinger who acts a frail spy and whose conjugal life with his wife Delphine goes unravel or Deneuve whose sentimental life is like a desert . And here and there Mocky didn't jettison his bias for onslaughts directed against some convenient values which if they might seem extraneous for some viewers don't encroach on the unifying thread : Victorien who expresses his disgust for wild animals kept in zoo who'd better be free . Even when the solution to the mystery is solved and the culprits are unmasked , Mocky's attacks towards them are fully justified . In one sequence , a voyager tries to see the misty mountainous landscape through a telescope . " I can't see anything ! " she complains . The viewer , at this step of the story can't too and will have to still wait a little to discover who's pulling the strings .
The most sustained piece of Work of Sautet in the seventies .	Few people know it , but Claude Sautet was first a film noir connoisseur . His first work , " classes tout risques " was beating Jean - Pierre Melville at his own game ; the follow-up , " l'arme à gauche " , is difficult to see nowadays , but if you can , do not think twice . In the seventies , from " les choses de la vie " onwards , Sautet became the cinema de qualité director . I mean it pejoratively . Whereas " les choses de la vie " remains watchable today , thanks to a sensational editing , the other works such as " Cesar et Rosalie " " Vincent François Paul et les autres " " Mado " are depicting a bourgeois life , speaking of people " in danger of despair " ( Sautet Dixit ) but with an optimism that was almost unbearable in the crisis of the seventies . The screenplays became very loose , without any dramatic progression . You can sum up " Cesar et Rosalie " like this : " Rosalie loves Cesar , but she also loves David . What will become of her ? " : everything taking place in desirable mansions , what a contemporary critic aptly called " un espace Cardin " This is two-bit psychological drama , with ponderous symbolism , as " Mado " will confirm with its infuriating scene where the cars get boggeddown in the mud . a critic said then " it's the movie that gets bogged down itself . " Max et les ferrailleurs " is a different matter ; by combining the film noir side of the two first opus with what will be developed ( in a very gauche way ) in the " psychological " future films , Sautet brings it all back home . It stands out as his most sustained piece of work in the seventies . An absolutely intriguing work , with a beautiful Romy Schneider who keeps the audience waiting , only appearing after 30 minutes . Her relationship with cop Piccoli is very shady , sometimes recalling the Fonda / Sutherland one in Pakula's " Klute " : it really stands comparison with it . A wonderful depiction of a popular milieu , in the suburbs of Paris ( Nanterre ) , where the secondary characters seem to be out of a Duvivier or a Clouzot work . But it's finally the Jacques Becker spirit Sautet captures here , and it's really too bad that , after such an interesting movie , he fell into the trap of the academic cinema de qualité .
the wrong man	Like his elder brothers , Claude Sautet and Jean-Pierre Melville , Alain Corneau began to cut his teeth in French cinema with a series of fine thrillers : " la Menace " ( 1977 ) and " Série Noire " ( 1979 ) among others . " Police Python 357 " is a good example of how Corneau conceived and shot his works at this time of his career . They had a splendid cinematography , painstaking screenplays and a sophisticated directing elaborated for efficiency's sake . The police superintendent Ferrot ( Yves Montand ) is a cop with unconventional methods who usually works all alone . He makes the acquaintance of a young woman Sylvia Léopardi ( Stefania Sandrelli ) and becomes her lover while ignoring that she has another lover : his superior Ganay ( François Périer ) . When the latter learns it , he kills her in a fit of anger . Ferrot has to investigate the murder and all the clues are inexorably against him . . . One could deem that this kind of far-fetched story isn't exempt from glitches and sometimes , one can see right through it but Corneau's pedantic directorial style helps to conjure up a stifling , dusky atmosphere . The first part of the film before the night of the murder might seem uninteresting and however , it is crucial for what will follow this key-moment . Corneau falls back on a sober treatment with rather sparse moments and short appearances by secondary , minor characters whom the viewer will see again during the investigation . In spite of drawbacks , Corneau and his scenarist Daniel Boulanger penned a deft story . Ménard ( Mathieu Carrière ) who sometimes expresses his surprise because Ferrot keeps a relatively low profile during the investigation . But his superior knows that he usually works alone . Actually , Ferrot has to find solid tricks to muddy the waters and so to exonerate himself . Eventually , the chief idea of the film concerns Ferrot himself . He's a cop who bit by bit loses his identity and finds himself in the heart of a terrible depersonalization . It is epitomized by the moment when he throws himself acid on his face so that witnesses won't recognize him when he is brought face to face with them . The backdrop of this thriller , Orléans is efficiently enhanced by Corneau's camera and helps to inspire this eerie thriller its pernicious charm .
Loïc : an exterminating angel ?	Spoilers . . . " Dry cleaning " , that's what the title of this Anne Fontaine's effort means in English and it's a well-appropriated one to qualify the contents of the story she tells the audience . Its bulk essentially occurs in a dry-cleaner whose purpose is to clean the customers ' clothes but the director prefers to soil her couple's clear conscience as well as their moral , sexual conventions . Could this film be a crossing between Claude Chabrol's universe and Pier Paolo Pasolini's film " Theorema " ( 1968 ) ? It's highly possible and they're respectable credentials for this novel , idiosyncratic film . The first one for the provincial backdrop and a dash of gastronomy . The author of " le Boucher " ( 1970 ) and " les Noces Rouges " ( 1973 ) excelled when it came to depict vignettes of provincial life , in the Kunstler's shop and apartment but also in the town itself . Anne Fontaine just has to describe with just a few features , the gloomy aura which reigns in Belfort . And the second reference for of course the story of the film which bears a strong resemblance with Pasolini's opus : both introduced a young man who subverted a comfortable universe and caused damage in them . " Nettoyage à Sec " could be an updated version of " Theorema " . Loïc is the disruptive element in the Kunstler's " petit bourgeois " world . More than this , he's the catalyst of their buried desires and passions . Before making their dreary universe with its constricting etiquette falter in the dry-cleaner's , he will at first indirectly galvanize them to accomplish their desires . The week-end in Bâle , unusual in the couple ' life is a proof of it . Before this , one of the key sequences is the one when the four protagonists are together in the hotel room because in this moment , the persona of Jean Marie and especially Nicole is well construed and defined . It's necessary to steer well the evolution and crucial steps of the story . Nicole makes love with Loïc and it's a sign that she's tired of her life and is ready to go in a new direction . Later , Fontaine will intersperse her film with conspicuous signs which don't fool anyone . See the scene in the restaurant : she confesses to her husband that she doesn't feel courageous enough to carry on her nine-to-five life in the dry-cleaner's . She's on the verge of packing in . Jean-Marie's answer is meaningful : " however when we started , you wanted to be the first one to help me to settle here . . . " . So , it seems perfectly logical that later she accepts Loïc's advances . As for Jean-Marie , he appears hesitant and undetermined but maybe would he like ( unconsciously or not ) change his life in spite of an eloquent sequence : when he takes Loïc downstairs to show him concrete memories of his first years spent in the shop . Memories to which he is deeply attached . . . Loïc's demeanor is rather elusive and it's hard to decipher his mainspring . Is it because he lost his closest human being in the world ( Marilyn ) that he settles to Nicole and Jean-Marie ? Is he sick of his nomad life despite what he says to the couple ? By enticing the couple , does he try to fulfill an affective gap in his life ? It was shrewd from Fontaine to make opaque his motivations . Thus , he keeps all his mystery . It was also clever from the director to have chosen evocative colors for her film and she's got a sense of light . The white of the dry-cleaner's sharply contrasts with the half-murky , dimly light rooms in the apartment , especially when Loïc is in these rooms . This to underscore that the life of the couple with Loïc's intrusion goes bit by bit unravel . She also has the gift to build her film on a relentless crescendo and to shroud it with an increasingly latent , ominous tension . A tension caused by several factors : disquieting moments or lines pronounced by Loïc , by the contrast between the appearance the couple gives to the customers and employees and what lies beneath this when they are in the apartment with Loïc , especially when the latter finds himself with Nicole . And it won't take long for Jean Marie to discover their love affair . But also with Jean-Marie's tantrums he has to try to resist to the strange attraction he feels for Loïc . His short wild mood swings are the result of a sexual repression he vainly wants to conceal . Loïc will feel it very well in the inevitable sequence in which he will try to sodomize him ( a violent one which packs a real wallop ) . After this scene , one could argue that the couple came back to where they started but in worse : Nicole and Jean-Marie are destroyed . The acting is uniformly good and largely lives up to the demands of the scenario . The type of character of each actor of the quartet complements one another . Although the film really put Mathilde Seigner on the map , it's her coy , brazen partner Stanislas Mehrer who gets the lion's share . I don't put Charles Berling and Miou-Miou in my straitjacket of favorite French actors but here , I was very taken with their acting . " Nettoyage à Sec " has a taut , well-constructed scenario in which every step of the story rings true . It's an unsettling piece of work which leaves indelible stains . It may also walk a fine line with works like " Harry : Un Ami Qui Vous Veut Du Bien " ( 2000 ) by Dominik Moll which could be his little brother . I would like to discover Anne Fontaine's anterior and subsequent works to her 1997 film .
Visually beautiful but a bit cold .	Second effort in Carné ' s second career , this movie is all the same superior to the mediocre " la Marie du port " released the precedent year . At first sight , " Juliette " appears as a continuation of the ambitious ( and highly successful ) 1936-1946 period . The scenes in jail use almost the same thud in the soundtrack as in " le jour se lève " ; it is a return to the fantastic which Carné broached in " les visiteurs du soir " . And the dreams of faraway islands ( " Quai des brumes " ) in the sun have been replaced by pure dreams to escape the harsh reality . . . . . . . which shows a strong influence of Henry Hathaway's " Peter Ibbetson " ( 1935 ) . Both are technically and visually splendid but lack true emotion . In spite of Gerard Philippe ' s intense performance , it does not always work , but when it odes , it rises the film above Carné's post " portes de la nuit " production : the village where the inhabitants have no more memories , and of course do not know how they lost them . So they try to appropriate the others ' ones , here the hero Michel's . Michel is in search of Juliette ( Suzanne Cloutier , who was Welles's Desdemona in " Othello " ) , but for these guys the girl may be their daughter or wife , a grave or the name of a boat . There are other strong scenes in the forest where dancers are waltzing while a fortune-teller tells . . . only the past . On the other hand , all that concerns the " prince " and the hints at Perrault's fairytale " the blue beard " are less successful : Carné probably loved Cocteau's " la Belle et la Bete " ( 1946 ) and the poet's influence can be felt in Trauner's film set . And Carné and his playwright borrow from Fritz Lang too : the last forbidden door was already used two years before in " secret beyond the door " . That makes a big difference with , say , " les enfants du paradis " : nothing predated what would become the beloved film of the French cinema . During his heyday , Carne did influence the others , ( for instance , " les visiteurs du soir " paved a reliable way for Delannoy-Cocteau's " l'eternel retour " ) in 1950 he was influenced by them . The movie has a strange structure which recalls another Lang ( again ! ) work , " the woman in the window " ( 1944 ) : reality ( 10 min ) , then a long dream , and return to reality for the last fifteen minutes where we meet again two characters of the dream . One should note that in the dream , the events that lead Michel to jail are told to the audience , but the connection reality / fantasizing is not very obvious and when it is , it often verges on childish symbolism . Should appeal to offbeat works buffs , and of course to Carné's fans . But might bore the others .
It's hard to see this movie .	Because it deals with tortures in Algeria " la question " remains a movie few people know . Henri Alleg's small book was first sold on the sly , but by the end of the sixties you could find it anywhere : it was in the library of my teacher training college . The title ( " the question " ) is borrowed from the Middle Ages when they called torture " question " what an euphemism ! Actually the movie does not go as far as the tortures depicted by Alleg in his book . The reader will certainly know what I mean . There are scenes that cannot be transferred to the screen , and any man or woman with a heart could not certainly stand them . Even the names were changed : Alleg became Charlègue and his friend Maurice Audin was renamed Oudinot . So were the soldiers patronymics . Laurent Heynemann made a non spectacular movie , and his leading actor , Jacques Denis , remains very sparing of gestures and words as Alleg ( Charlègue ) , the director of a newspaper and a FLN ( Algerians fighting against the French army to get independence ) sympathizer . All that is left for him is his dignity and he will not bargain for salvation , which would mean informing . A very dark page of French history .
Abel Gance did never take the easy way out .	His " Napoleon " is admired by every director of the planet including FF Coppola . His " j'accuse " might be the strongest manifesto against war that had ever been . Meet Mister Abel Gance , the French DW Griffith . " Cyrano et d'Artagnan " is his final opus his third in color after " la tour de Nesles " and " Austerlitz " ( not to be mistaken for " Napoleon " of course . ° " Cyrano et d'Artagnan " is extremely ambitious , and if it's not always successful , you can only blame it for its length ( 140 min ) , its use of foreign actors ( Jose Ferrer , who had already played the role , Daliah Lavi , Sylva Koscina ) , and its sometimes confused plot . It's an overlong movie , and the sequences drag on and on and on . But here and there some sublime pictures make up for it : for instance , a shot of Marion Delorme's horse-drawn coach in the moistness of the early hours looks like a painting . The cinematography is sensational . The use of foreign actors , when you want to write a hefty part of your dialogs in Alexandrians , is not the right move : but Gance was probably in need of money so the co-production ( with Italy and Spain ) was necessary . But the dubbing was not adequate : for instance , Koscina's voice is provided by none other than the actress who dubs Elizabeth Montgomery in " bewitched " in the French version ! Of the four leads , only Jean-Pierre's Cassel ' s voice can be heard . Other famous French actors support here : Michel Simon ( Cyrano's father ) , Gabrielle Dorziat ( D'Artagnan's mother ) , Philippe Noiret ( A curious Louis the Thirteenth ) , only appearing a few minutes each . That said , the lines are poetic , superbly written . Foreign people who will see this movie , unless they are fluent in FRench , will lose a lot with subtitles . The lines verge on risqué for the time , and are not afraid to call a spade a spade when it comes to physical love . The plot borrows from Alexandre Dumas's " les trois mousquetaires " ( of course ) but also from Edmond Rostand's famous play ( " Cyrano " later one of Depardieu's most celebrated parts ) and Victor Hugo's drama " Marion Delorme " . Abel Gance blends the three stories , in a gleeful hotchpotch which might cause the purists ' face to avert and their rump to shift endlessly in the armchair , but he did not take the easy way out , nobody can deny ! His Cyrano is wonderfully depicted , a poet , a fighter , a lover and a scientist ( he did invent the tape recorder , which at Richelieu's time , with all the spies around , was downright dangerous . ° The amorous side and the political side do not hang well together , because Gance favored the former over the latter . " Cyrano et d'Artagnan " , in its own way , sums up Gance's career : a man who never stopped trying , whose failures ( and this one is looked upon as a fiasco by most of the French critics ) were worthwhile , so much more worthwhile than so many successes .
The place is a real circus today .	( the new barker to the acrobat ) - Can I have a trailer door key ? - What for ? There's nothing to steal in here ! The new barker is actually a gangster who has double-crossed his accomplices and has hidden a part of loot in the trailer . He has taken refuge in a seedy circus where a gypsy is spying on him . Besides his angry ex-pals are not far either . Raymond Pellegrin and a young Jeanne Moreau team up again after Henri Decoin's " Les Intrigantes " ( 1954 ) . They get good support from a very good cast which includes Mouloudji , Paul Meurisse ( many people saw him in " les Diaboliques " ) , Howard Vernon and Jacques Dufilho . Michel Audiard , as usual , provides the movie with fine lines and Pierre Billon's directing is effective . A true film noir with lots of dead bodies . Mijanou Bardot , Brigitte's sister , plays the circus owner's daughter .
naked Northern France	As a French film lover , I had to discover this little film which was surrounded by much hype and now ranks among the 5 most profitable movies launched in France . Otherwise , people would have told me : " what ? You haven't seen Bienvenue Chez Les Ch'Ti's ? Everyone's talking about it . It's terrific " . So terrific that it turned the small town of Berck into an unlikely tourist attraction and a few months ago I ate a delicious " Maroual " tart ! Without mentioning verbal expressions that are now used in French common language like " Biloute " . I went to see it also partly because I had enjoyed Dany Boon's first effort as a director : " la Maison Du Bonheur " ( 2006 ) even if I especially smiled than laughed . I'm a little baffled that this film which isn't that much original made itself known in virtually every French house . The premise of a man who has to cope with a new and supposedly hostile world has been used thousands of times before in cinema . At first , Boon follows an apparently mapped scheme . Kad Merad is anguished at the idea to spend a part of his professional life in Northern France where it is supposed to rain every day and where inhabitants appear to be sullen . But then , things aren't what he believes them to be : it's often sunny and people are generally charming . But as he wants to avoid a breakdown to his wife , Merad lies to her until one day she joins him in the Nord Pas De Calais . What I like in Boon's effort is that it recycles the clichés linked to this French area to boost laughter and it often works . I dig the moments when Merad is on the highway ( to hell ? ) and as soon as he arrives in the Nord Pas De Calais , it starts to rain . When Merad also tries to help Boon to solve his problem with alcohol , it's quite funny too . I would also quote the moments with humorist Patrick Bosso as a cop who stops twice Merad on the highway and its results . Boon's directing should also be praised for taking some of his clichés into unexpected territories like when Boon announces to Line Renaud that he wants to marry his girlfriend . And when Merad's wife comes to visit him in Northern France , Dany Boon thumbs the nose at the ones who have a dogged vision of dreary Northern France . There's no denying that Boon is deeply attached to his native area . His love for it transpires in virtually every plan where we can see parts of the town and its inhabitants . It's obvious that he feels much more at ease in directing and acting than in its previous effort where secondary roles almost stole him the show . He manages to convey tenderness for his characters to the viewer . However , like in " la Maison Du Bonheur " , I especially smiled than laughed . The sole moment where I was dead laughing was when Merad pretends to be disabled to have his promotion even if this trick isn't new . But Boon's effort is better than his first one thanks to his control over directing ( one can admire the contrast when Merad enjoys being in joyful Northern France and when he has to go back to Nice to find again his depressed wife ) , clichés and also the performance as a whole . It's also comforting that such a film rode high at the French box office while other productions that were likely to be successes failed in spite of a conspicuous publicity campaign like " Astérix Aux Jeux Olympiques " ( 2008 ) . And it's a film that should definitely reduce the detractors of Northern France to silence . So , I liked " Bienvenue Chez Les Ch'Ti's " but I doubt whether I would want to watch it again .
A bad-tempered republican	Jean Devaivre , who had sunk into oblivion , gained fame again as one of the heroes of Bertrand Tavernier's " Laissez passer " which was based on his memoirs ( Jacques Gamblin played his part in this 2002 film ) . His career as a director was short-lived and only two of his movies are worth watching : " La Dame De Onze Heures " and this film " La Ferme Des Sept Péchés " ( The farm of the seven sins ) . Both are offbeat thrillers , " La Ferme " is the best of the two . At first sight , it looks like a return to rural thriller , in the tradition of " Goupi Mains Rouges " or " L'Assassinat Du Père Noel " , but Devaivre's treatment is Citizen Kane - like . Paul Louis Courier is a name in history ; he was a committed republican who fought against the royalists during the Restoration : he died in the reign of Charles X : was it a political assassination or a murky murder ? The film does not really provide the audience with an answer and actually the historians themselves do not know . A high school in Tours bears his name but few people in France really know what he did to merit such a honor . The film is a long flashback , à la " Citizen Kane " ; Paul Louis Courier is , depending on whom the police questions , sometimes a friend of the oppressed people who suffer under the rule of the king , sometimes a hateful stingy landlord , who gives his servants , his wife and the tramp who begs a plate of soup a really rough time . A very fine directing , with an ambitious fragmented screenplay , a misty murky atmosphere and the presence of a village idiot ( played by the talented Jacques Dufilho ) , a stunning editing and strong scenes ( the country ball is a splendor ) make " La Ferme Des Sept Péchés " perhaps not a masterpiece but a very original work .
The biters bit	Richard Pottier had a good sense of humor which showed in the best of his comedies : " Fanfare d'Amour " ( remade as " some like it hot " ) " Caroline Chérie " and this " L'Aventure Commence Demain " which is much fun to watch . Two crooks team up : a buck ( Raymond Rouleau ) , the " brain " and a two-bit femme fatale , a cross between Joan Crawford and Rita Hayworth , complete with cigarette holder ( Isa Miranda ) , the " charm " . They take a wealthy man as their target ; they begin with a jewel then begin to work on a larger scale when they learn the greybeard owns a map which gives the site of of an elephant's graveyard ( which means plenty of ivory ) . Of course nothing happens as they expected . Funny lines , very good acting and plenty of unexpected twists .
A return to form .	Polanski's career ran into difficulties after " Chinatown " . He made another great movie " le locataire " , easily his most underrated one , then he completely lost his identity . The highly praised " Tess " was a faceless work , although its cinematography was breath-taking . Then the slump began : " pirates " was his nadir , a movie that should never have been released , and " frantic " verged on commercial stuff , abetted by expressionless Harrison Ford . " Bitter moon " , itself undistinguished , paved a reliable way for the next movie , this one . " Bitter moon " was by no means a tremendous work , but it took up ambiguity again , which was Polanski's forte . His best works can be summed by this word : ambiguity ; " Rosemary's baby " " le locataire " " repulsion " " cul de sac " " knife in the water " . . . " Death and the maiden is by far Polanski's best since " le locataire " . Ben Kingsley's character is one of the most frightening of the Polanski canon . We will never know who he is , a monster or an innocent : he's a distant relative of the Castevets in " Rosemary's " , of the tenants in " le locataire " or John Huston's character in " Chinatown " . Sigourney Weaver's over the top but impressive performance seems at first acquaintance an anomaly in Polanski's world . We're far from frail Mia Farrow's Rosemary , Faye Dunaway's fausse femme fatale or neurotic Catherine Deneuve in " repulsion " . But we will discover in the end she's as weak as the three heroines I mention . The claustrophobia runs rampant in the Pole's works . All his great works of the sixties and seventies ( except " Chinatown " ) take place in a closed-in space , a flat ( Rosemary , repulsion , le locataire ) , a boat ( knife in the water ) . But the connection is glaring between " Death and the maiden " and " cul de sac " ( check the title ) ; the latter takes us to an island , the former on a house on a cliff , far from the world . Sometimes it seems that Polanski places his characters as pawns : some shots show them diagonally . Polanski avoids the main pitfall : the flashbacks . A minor director would have " treated " the audience to a " meal " of bloody tortures and nudity . Polanski does not show anything . All that we know , we learn it through Weaver's mouth . Sometimes words speak louder than pictures . This situation ( torturer / victim who meet again ) , we ' d already seen it in Liliana's Cavani's " portiere di notte , 1973 , and the flashbacks weakened the relationship Dirk Bogarde / Charlotte Rampling . Moreover , Cavani's movie was unbearable , even obnoxious in several respects , which is not the case here , despite the ending . After all , Kingsley's performance is so disturbing that we don't have any absolute certainty . Polanski's return was short-lived . " The ninth gate " looked like a caricature of former glories . Let's hope " le pianiste " which triumphed in the festival de Cannes last month , will rekindle the flame .
Not all	" All fall down " has a dated screenplay but the cast makes it an eminently watchable movie ; this is a super quintet and it's difficult to tell who the best is : Angela Landsbury as the holier-than-thou over possessive mom in love with her eldest boy : a part she would take on in Frankenheimer's masterpiece " Manchourian candidate " where she was IMHO the absolute stand-out . Karl Marlden as the grumpy commie who never goes to church and who takes on the Magi for Christmas . He and Landsbury created a stifling unbearable atmosphere in their house which would like to show the perfect family . Warren Beatty as the lady killer , a God for his family , a model for his kid brother . And finally an unsatisfied alcoholic brute of a man . Eva Marie Saint , who played opposite Malden in " On the waterfront " and later in the MTV " Titanic " , is the loveliest " spinster " you can meet . She is a brittle frail young woman , she does not seem armed against life's difficulties . Although she comes first in the cast and credits , Saint ' s part does not excess 45 minutes . Brandon de Wilde as the younger son , a sixteen-year - old kid , whose hero is Berry-Berry , the big brother whose life is full of beautiful women . Brandon de Wilde , who sadly was to die very young , had a similar part in Martin Ritt's " Hud " ( 1963 ) where he played opposite Newman , his uncle in the movie : their relationship in the two movies is surprisingly similar . And the conclusion is about the same . Clinton is actually the center of the story , the real hero of the movie : it's the difficult from adolescence to adult . Clint has got to get old before his age . His first love was a tragedy . He was betrayed by the person he loved the most . No one in his family can provide him with support or compassion . All has not fallen down . Clint does not hate life anymore .
The great sinner	This Robert Siodmak may seem derivative as another film noir . But he does not follow the rules . First the two leads are cast against type . We would expect Mature as Rome and Richard Conte as Candella . It increases the interest because we do not know how their characters will evolve . Then , and it was extremely unusual at the time , there is no female central character ; gorgeous Debra Paget appears in the first sequences ( " she must be an angel " ) and only returns at the end of the movie in the church . No central female character , but plenty of them , and all are interesting : a nurse and her mom , a street gal ( Shelley Winters ) , a mannish ( lesbian ? ) female crook-the scene in the subway is very suspenseful - , and finally Rome's mom . A true mom , who still believes in her children , but who begins to lose her illusions ; fortunately there is a younger son , and the cop keeps a close watch on him . This mother is very different from the terrifying over possessive one Siodmak had introduced in his overlooked " Christmas holiday " ( 1944 )
Heartbreak hotel	What's lacking here is a great director , someone like Robert Siodmak ( " Phantom Lady " ) or Mitchell Leisen ( " No man of her own " ) . Who says Truffaut ? ( " the bride wore black " ) . Even flawed , " Black Angel " is far better than the two Truffaut movies ( the second being " La Sirene Du Mississipi " ) cause only an American can feel the desperate atmosphere of Cornell Woolrich's ( aka William Irish ) best novels and short stories . Generally the character who experiments tragedy is a woman ; such is not the case here . Martin is the loser , the unfortunate expiatory victim who is looking for a second chance . Some people won't accept the fact that half of the action is based on a wrong track : it's necessary to make us feel Martin's growing hope . His moonlight sonata is not only a warning , it's also a love message ( look at his face when he is playing ) When Cathy tells him there can only be one man in her life , he's got no reason to live anymore . Hence this ending a la " lost weekend " ( which was released the precedent year ) and these words of Martin when he says he is happy now . William Irish's novel was arguably not his best : the story is too close to that of " phantom lady " and Cathy becoming a singer overnight is not very plausible . But it's Dan Duryea's hope against hope and his face longing for happiness and peace of mind that will haunt you after watching this good film noir .
a forest . . . ( the Cure )	SPOILERS . . . Because of great movies shot these last years such as the indispensable " the Sixth Sense " ( 1999 ) , a new film by M Night Shyamalan is always eagerly awaited . After " Signs " ( 2002 ) , " the Village " was launched in 2004 and oddly , it somewhat disappoints without we know very well why . You come out of the projection with a certain bitter taste . Why ? However , a spectator who would neglect the qualities that this film contains would be someone with a lack of judgment . M Night Shyamalan's making is still as sumptuous and his work is scattered with strong moments like the scene when Adrien Brody wounds Joaquin Phoenix . Moreover , the director often succeeds in making us jump . There's also a magnificent photography that reflects well the colors of the fall and it is quite easy to detect in the nocturnal sequences a careful work on the light . To go on , " the Village " has got two common point with Shyamalan's previous work , " Signs " : a will to use special effects at a minimum and the fact that this village is located in the heart of a deep forest supposedly haunted really gives the impression to be " In Camera " , just like in " Signs " with Mel Gibson's farm . At last , to write his screenplay , we can conclude that the director , in the first part , essentially drew from " Witness " ( 1985 ) , a movie by Peter Weir while the second part when Bryce Dallas Howard disappears into the woods , quite obviously recalls " the Blair Witch Project " ( 1999 ) . All these assets reveal M Night Shyamalan's will to distinguish himself very clearly from the Hollywood influence . All of this would be perfect if there weren't any faults and sadly there are some in this film . First , Shyamalan couldn't avoid one of the traps that the topic was tending : the stereotyped characters , it is the case with Adrien Brody whom we can consider the mad man of the village . Then , one of the strongest points in the previous works shot by this talented filmmaker partly lied on excellent performances from all the actors which created a sort of harmony . In " the Village " , I must admit that the performance remains patchy : William Hurt and Bryce Dallas Howard manage well but Joaquin Phoenix is rather inexpressive . As for Sigourney Weaver , I read that she was so much excited by the script that she had sleepless nights but I think she has only a minor role . Furthermore , the beginning of the film is labored in the way the director lingers on the presentation of the main characters in the village which delays the beginning of the plot . Now what to say about the outcome ? Like Alfred Hitchcock , M Night Shyamalan understood that in a detective film to make the suspense last , nothing must be disclosed until the end of a film , the surprise will only be bigger . Besides , he had insisted that the journalists didn't reveal the end of the story . Personally , I can't make up my mind whether the outcome is stunning or poor . In a way , it is stunning if you take care of what Hurt says at the end of the movie and so , the whole story makes sense . But it can also be considered as poor for the spectators who expected to watch a fantastic movie and it can explain why most people felt disappointment about " the Village " . On IMDB , the popularity rating is only 6 , . But we can opt for another interpretation . Maybe M Night Shyamalan wanted to play with the spectator and to laugh at him by leading him on wrong tracks and revealing him that the supposedly haunted forest is just a pure invention from William Hurt . Roughly , the film can be taken for a farce . You will be able , according to your mood , find the end of the movie and even the whole movie , clever or poor . One last thing , there's no denying that in spite of plenty of obvious qualities , M Night Shyamalan's works are getting less and less appealing . I can only wish this : that he recovers
Tommy , Tuppence ( sorry Prudence ) , Rose and the queen of spade	Preceding the made-for - TV English version-which oddly also features Miss Marple ; anyway it's part of a Marple miniseries ; to my knowledge , Christie never put her three sleuths together in her novels or short stories - , this Pascal Thomas made-in-France Christie is much fun to watch . Tommy and Tuppence ( her name was changed ; anyway it was a nickname " two pence " which meant " Quat'sous " ) , unlike MIss Marple , appeared when they were young and they grew old with the novels and the writer . " Mon Petit Doigt m'a dit " casts Catherine Frot and André Dussolier as the leads , but it has a dream of a cast : it's a joy to see again Laurent Terzieff , Alexandra Stewart , Genevieve Bujold ( Whom I did not recognize ) and Bernard Verley . The lines are generally witty , with a good sense of humor ( I particularly dig the lines about the sponges in the home for retired people ) which anyway was present ( albeit subdued ) in Christie's works . Pascal Thomas has found a good way of renewing Christie's novels . After two good works ( " murder on the orient express " and " death on the Nile " ) , the theatrically released films lacked tempo and got too often bogged down into endless questionings and investigations , which was quite good in the books , but which became boring on the screen . Almost entirely filmed on location , on the banks of the Leman lake , with plenty of characters , some sinister-looking , and a dash of supernatural thrown in for good measure . There is often something eerie in Christie's books , with that feeling of déja vu ( Miss Marple's last case had something of this kind ) . Like this ? try these . . . . . . Family plot Alfred Hitchcock 1975 Agent trouble Jean-Pierre Mocky 1987Noir Comme le Souvenir Jean-Pierre Mocky 1995
a pleasant but colorless movie	In France , wednesday is the day devoted to children because they don't go to school . The problem is that their parents aren't always there to take care of them . As a consequence , it's enough for their children to get into mischief or they're running away ( unwittingly or not ) . There's another solution : parents can keep their children with them even if they have to work on wednesday . To tell this mad day , Pascal Thomas chose an outline which isn't really original : an estranged and scatterbrained man ( Vincent Lindon ) must keep his daughter during one full day but he's caught up by his professional obligations and they make his duty hard . It's all the more as his daughter shows cleverness . But finally , the end of the day will see the two characters become partners and inseparable . In parallel and probably in order to air the subject , Thomas showed shrewdness because he also built his movie around several little plots either funny either dramatic that cope with each other and resolve individually . Otherwise , Thomas ' movie remains a nice one but a bit colorless . He leaves several sequences high and dry and in spite of good ( and sometimes harrowing ) moments , his making appears a bit of a mess , clumsy , not always well mastered . Whereas Vincent Lindon , he's friendly but I think his performance lacks of punch and I don't find him expressive enough . His main partner sometimes steals him the show . Besides , you can blame Thomas for not being demanding enough towards his actors . At the end , the movie gives a mixed impression and left me unsatisfied . Nevertheless , Thomas can sustain the interest during all the movie although the little plots are of varying quality .
The beast in me	One can regret the final " explanation " . A great fantasy and horror film does not need any " explanation " , particularly when they feature an actor as gifted as Peter Lorre . Lorre is a so great an actor he can make you believe the hand does not really exist , it's him and only him who cannot control himself when madness really breaks out , just like M in Lang's magnum opus . The rest of the cast - with the exception of French Victor Francen who made films in America with Duvivier ( " Tales of Manhattan " and Leisen " Hold back the dawn " ) who really pulls it out as a wealthy disturbing greybeard in love with a truly beautiful girl ( Andréa King deserves he name : she is gorgeous ) - seems bland by comparison . The film takes place in Italy , which is not exactly the right place for a Gothic tale in a spooky mansion . The first place when Robert Alda sells an " ancient " jewel to naive tourists seems a bit out of place . But no matter , sit down , enjoy Lorre's sensational acting and get some scares . . . . in the dark , of course . Like this ? Try theseMaurice Tourneur La Main Du Diable 1942Jacques Tourneur Curse of the demon 1957
Rutle for your life .	It's impossible to love the Beatles - Is it possible not to adore the Beatles anyway ? - and not to enjoy this marvelous mad yet very precise spoof on their whole oeuvre . All along this " all you need is lo . . sorry cash " , you are treated to the delights of hilarious jokes ( we are more popular than God , sorry , Rod ( Stewart ) ) and the songs are sheer genius . Not only they capture the Beatles atmosphere , but they are also quite infectious , superbly tuneful with zany but witty lyrics . I particularly dig " ouch " ( " help " ) and " piggy in the middle " ( I'm the walrus " ) but the masterpiece is undeniably " Cheese and onions " which is not really inspired by a Beatles song , but manages to sound Beatler than the Beatles themselves . Mick Jagger and Paul Simon ( among others ) appear in the flesh and their tongue-in - chick comments ( rather sarcastic for the former , a bit wistful for the latter ) are a plus for the movie . Word to the wise : it's worth to buy the CD which features 20 songs ! and in 1996 , when the Beatlemania , fueled by the release of the anthology series , was even stronger than in the golden sixties , the Rutles made a follow-up called " archaeology " that almost outdid the first 1978 release . You will love " Shangri la " ( " Hey jude " ) " We're arrived " ( back in the USSR " . And Eric Idle ends the Rutles saga on an almost sad touch with his " Back in 64 " ( " When I'm 64 " ) . Blues , folks , beaucoups of blues .
Before the full moon , the five of you will die . . . . .	. . . first you , then you , then . . . and you the last ! In Morocco where they spend their vacation , one of the five gentlemen of the title tries to take off a young Moroccan girl's veil : up comes the sorcerer ; he's cross and he curses the unfortunate young lads : before the full moon . . . . And they begin to die indeed : one gets drowned , the second is killed in a plane wreck , the third is stabbed to death in Volubilis ruins . . . . And then there were two . . . Might the curse be true ? French critics generally hate this movie . Personally I love it . Call it Duvivier's holiday homework . He made the best of the splendid Moroccan landscapes . It was generally filmed on location and often seems like a blueprint for works to come , the celebrated " Pepe le Moko " notably : the aerial photographs of the roofs , the hero , more and more scared , in the alleys of Fez ( and Duvivier ' s directing is as inventive as ever ) , the final chase where all the inhabitants of the town are involved . The script is so exciting they could redo ! Even the final unexpected twist , a thing that is so trendy nowadays , is present . And even if there are plot holes , do not forget it was filmed in 1931 ! Harry-Baur's part is completely pointless , that's the main drawback . But all that remains will appeal to people who enjoy mystery , adventures comic strip and exoticism .
the untouchables revised and given a new treatment by Brian De Palma	" The Untouchables " is reckoned as one of the kingpins in Brian De Palma's filmography by the insiders and his devotees . I would tend to agree with them and to be conducive about this general contention with however certain reservations . This transposition of the well-known TV series is surely one of his less personal works . His obsessions with Sir Alfred Hitchcock take a back seat and we're quite far from the thriller genre with grisly , bloody effects which helped to build the filmmaker's reputation . Actually , " the Untouchables " appears as formulaic in the presentation of events : Chicago during Prohibition under the control of the underworld with its main leader Al Capone , here acted by Robert De Niro whose performance is however less startling than in " Angel Heart " ( 1987 ) by Alan Parker , released the same year . A young fresh FBI agent Elliott Ness ( Kevin Costner ) rises up against him and has a yearning to make him fall . After a failed police raid in Capone's warehouses , he teams up with a seasoned cop , Malone ( Sean Connery ) and hires a band of volunteers who share his same determinations and then their hopes soar . But some members are killed including Malone . This doesn't help Ness's men to arrest Capone's accountant and his financial registers . . . It's sure that De Palma wanted to remain as close as possible to the historic reality . It seems that everything in the film from the scenery to the making was recreated to capture the stifling atmosphere of the Prohibition and the spirit of the film noir in the thirties but the contents of the film is very classic as a whole . And it's often aggravated by a streak to excessive effects , one of De Palma's main drawbacks . Visual excesses which are mostly present in shoot-out and fight sequences like Malone's slow death . Ditto at another level for Ennio Morricone's majestic but overwhelming music . But once again and like in some De Palma's works , the rumbustious form compensates the contents despite bombastic tendencies . Three seminal sequences would deserve to be legion in the filmmaker's canon : the western sequence with the Canadian mounted police , Malone's death , the arrest of the accountant by Ness in a shoot-out sequence doubled with a wink to Eisenstein's masterpiece " the Battleship Potemkine " ( 1926 ) . It's rather acceptable stuff but I favor Phil Karlson's terse style on the same domain with " the Scarface Mob " ( 1959 ) .
Fernandel says goodbye . . .	The ending of an extraordinary career which began at the beginning of the talkies . . . . He worked with the best directors ( Christian-Jaque , Julien Duvivier , Marcel Pagnol , Autant-Lara , Becker . . ) and with the not-so-great ones ( Verneuil , Grangier . . ) but he always remained himself , Fernandel . All he had to do was act naturally . Henri Colpi has made few movies . " Une Aussi Longue Absence " was a beautiful film , some kind of " Un Long Dimanche de Fiançailles " with more elegance , modesty and emotion . Some consider " Codine " filmed in Romania his best . I have not seen it . " Heureux qui comme Ulysse " ( the title of which is borrowed from an eponymous Joachim Du Bellay poem from the sixteenth century ) tells the story of an old horse , not able to work on a farm anymore . Next stop is the Arles arenas , in other words , death . The farmhand ( Fernandel ) who ' s got to take the animal there decides to rebel against his boss's inhuman decision . People who like Provence will love the magnificent landscapes ( Saint-Rémy - de Provence , les Baux , la Camargue ) . And there's also a moving song by Georges Brassens which superbly enhances the film . Should appeal to the whole family .
. . . . . but it can become a little funny film	June 1987 . Lille , in the North of France . Two families live in this big town . On one hand , the " Le Quesnoy " , a wealthy family . The father is the manager of " EDF " , the mother stays at home and the children are well brought up . On the other hand , the " Groseille " a poor family who lives in a small flat . The father took part in the Algerian War , the mother is listless and the children are delinquents . Apparently , these two families have got nothing in common . However , twelve years ago , two children have been exchanged by a nurse who was left by her lover . They will be given back to their real families . . . . . . . . . . and it won't be easy . It's Etienne Chatiliez's first film and it's very successful . The description of the two families is satirical and it never falls into the caricature . The " Le Quesnoy " are never showing signs of conceit or hypocrisy , they're even a bit ridiculous . The movie is very strong thanks to its actors who are mostly incredible : of course , the main actors : Hélène Vincent won the César for the best actress in 1989 . Her portrait and some of her words are irresistible ( it's monday , it's raviolis ) . Benoit Magimel who fits well in the role of Maurice . He's smart and impish . But the minor actors too : Patrick Bouchitey in his role of ecclesiastic , ( The scene in which he sings " Jésus reviens etc . . . " during a party is absolutely brillant and funny , Daniel Gélin , a wistful doctor and a wicked lover . At last , the screenplay is full of little details or words that score the bull's eye . The best example is when Bernadette's spreading her soup on the table during a dinner which means that she doesn't belong to her family circle . To sum up : one of the funniest movies of the eighties .
she's one of us	Christine Blanc ( Sasha Andrés ) is a young woman whose name answers to her personality . She's a stalwart temporary secretary who correctly earns a livelihood and however she looks absent to her surrounding . She's also well aware that her life is empty until the day she strikes up a friendship with Patricia ( Catherine Mouchet ) who searches jobs for her . But this friendship brutally comes to an end when one day at the swimming pool , Christine kills her . From then onwards , everything is fine for her : she passes her driving test , she has a more steady and lucrative job , she has a lover and however these aren't rational consequences of the horrendous act she committed . . . I must acknowledge that I was very taken with this daunting work shot by Siegfrid Alnoy which is likely to travel for a long time in my mind . If she aimed at shaking our reassuring convinced ideas about society , work and leisure , she admirably succeeded in her task . Blur , ambiguity to tell Christine's outlandish adventure , her position in the world and personality are her best weapons . Like the Degas police officer , one is very intrigued by this idiosyncratic woman and although the director offers us a few clues likely to shed more light on her personality ( see the sequence in the restaurant between the two characters ) , she keeps all her mystery from this perspective . Even before the murder , she seems elusive to the eyes of the audience : does she reject the world or does the world reject her ? And after the murder , see the glaring contrast : a numb , senseless Christine Blanc superseded a wan one . Beyond Christine Blanc's ascension , " Elle est Des Nôtres " raises serious problems about a ravenous consuming society and a heartless world of work . It holds a deeply pessimist vision about its members who consummate as much as they can , who are driven by the laws of market economy and don't remember human values any more . It is to Alnoy's credit that this nearly inhumane world could be ours . How chilling . . . Thanks to a sparse cinematographic writing , eerie camera angles , a big attention brought to the sound ( the film should have had a nomination for the Best Sound at the César Ceremony in 2004 ) , a music which often has the form of a barely audible note scattered with disturbing musical effects , Siegfrid Alnoy conjures up a disquieting climate which takes the form of an increasing crescendo throughout the film . The murder sequence made me look away and I can say that I hadn't been impressed by a murder sequence for a long time . Actors aren't very known in the French mainstream and their somewhat blank acting help to maintain the malaise . The title of the film comes from a French popular song that is sung when someone is about to drink a glass of alcohol for the very first time . Once she swallowed the beverage , her peers sing : " she's one of us . She drank her glass like the others ! " . This type of sequence is shown in the film when Christine is in a restaurant with her colleagues to celebrate her success at her driving test . Yes , " she's one of us " and " she's also part of an oppressive system that destroys her and transforms her in a normal monster " . These are Siegfird Alnoy's words about her work . Its only fault is that the form has sometimes the tendency to forget the contents . But it doesn't stop you from watching an unnerving , compelling work that will haunt you for a long time .
can men and women live together and forever ?	It will certainly surprise Patrice Leconte's devotees if I tell them that Mick Jagger , the front man of the Rolling Stones is a professed fan of this French author . So , Sir Mick Jagger , if you haven't seen this one " Tango " , I can recommend it to you ( and of course to the aficionados of its creator ) with , however a little reserve . Coming after a chain of pearls such as " Tandem " ( 1987 ) , " Monsieur Hire " ( 1989 ) or " le Mari De la Coiffeuse " ( 1990 ) , " Tango " is a little below them as regards quality . Because he knows that his wife deceives him with her lover , Vincent ( Richard Borhinger ) kills both of them but against all odds he's acquitted by a misogynous judge rightly nicknamed " l'élégant " ( the smart man ) ( Philippe Noiret ) . In return , he persuades him ( blackmails him would be closer to the truth ) to join him with his nephew Paul ( Thierry Lhermitte ) to go and kill the latter's wife in North Africa . And our threesome embarks on a trip across France , then catches a plane to arrive on their destination . As soon as the three men are together , the film has the accents of a road-movie like " Tandem " a previous Leconte effort and the best in all his filmography . A road-movie shot in a hectic pace and peppered with preposterous meetings and events . When the film opened in French theaters in February 1993 , Patrice Leconte was wrongly accused of misogyny . Its detractors couldn't understand the whole film . Men can't live without women . Just have a look at Vincent : after he killed his wife and after having been acquitted , he seems gloomy . And as for Paul , although he can't stand the idea that his wife is still alive and may live her life with another man , he's undecided about the acting . Even the judge doesn't seem to really hate women . After the sequence when Judith Godrèche killed her husband , he doesn't arrest her and even authorizes Vincent to have a baby with her behind the bushes in the country ! Anyway , feminist characters are overall positive so " Tango " : a misogynous film ? Definitely not . . . Earlier in my review , I wrote in my review that " Tango " wasn't at the same level than the other Leconte films I mentioned . Very simply because when our threesome philosophize about the relationships between men and women and why they can't live together , the film becomes draggy and talky . The filmmaker tapped this function on the staple story to beef his film up but when it comes at the foreground , the machine turns without gripping and the interest somewhat wanes . These drawbacks stop the film from taking its place among Leconte's very winners . But apart from these somewhat intellectual pretensions , " Tango " shouldn't be dismissed all the same . In this entertaining black comedy , the Leconte touch runs throughout the film and should make the fans flock to it . This filmmaker has nearly always the gift to collaborate with peerless scenarists who scatter his films with potent cues . Then , " Tango " shelters strong sequences like the very first one during the opening credits . As a matter of fact , the first twenty minutes during which Leconte indulges himself with two spoofs of " North by Northwest ( 1959 ) by Hitchcock could justify the screening of the film . Another strong moment is the one when Noiret acquits Vincent : one can hear his voice but one can't see him . And still from Leconte this taste for the oddball , absurd detail . You have to see Noiret talking to his cat like to a human being or Borhinger fishing with a fishing rod without a line . " Tango " isn't a new pinnacle in Leconte's career for the reason I previously mentioned but it shouldn't be rejected . Helped by its assets and a three-star cast , Leconte's fans should reassure themselves : they are in well-known lands . For me , Leconte will reach new heights again with his next film , the summery , nearly dreamlike " le Parfum d'Yvonne " ( 1994 ) which should have known a better commercial fate than its commercial fiasco .
Skeletons in the closet .	Because Delon's popularity was sinking fast and Jacques DEray was dismissed as unhip this deliciously old-fashioned film was unfairly unnoticed and nobody seems to care now . Jacques Deray ' s film is a wonderful tribute to old cinema , that cinema with strong screenplays which preceded the French new wave . It's interesting to note that , unlike , say , Jean-Paul Belmondo , Alain Delon never worked with the Young Turks : it did not prevent him , anyway , from working with great directors such as René Clément - he was a better Ripley than Matt Damon - Luchino Visconti and Joseph Losey , to name but three . He was also featured in the great Duvivier ' s last - and unfortunately rather weak - work " diaboliquement vôtre " ( 1966 ) and he had the guts to defend the " old " man against the new wave's hateful attacks . " Un crime " is " back to the forties and the fifties " . Forget the color and think Duvivier , Clouzot and most particularly Henry Decoin ( " les inconnus dans la maison " " la vérité sur bébé Donge " " " non coupable " ) and André Cayatte ( one of his latter works " verdict " but also " le glaive et la balance " and " justice est faite " ) . Deray is perhaps not in the same league , particularly he had not got Duvivier's or Clouzot's genius but here he delivers the goods and the screenplay has enough unexpected twists to satisfy the lovers of , say , " primal fear " - sometimes Manuel Blanc ' s Frederic is close to Edward Norton's character and it's not plagiarism , because " un crime ' was made before - Most of the time , there are only two men on the stage , and they sustain interest till the very end . Frederic's luxury flat is also part of the game , and , with astute and subtle flashbacks , Deray reveals its secrets little by little . Delon's fans were not satisfied , because it was definitely a thankless part : a brilliant lawyer who always wins at the beginning , he's slowly turning into a jaded disenchanted human being . Best moment : the flowers Manuel Blanc throws on the floor , a scene a lot of " modern " directors " could be proud of . It ' s a short film - about 85 minutes and they say Gilles Perrault did not approve of the adaptation of his novel , but you should have a look at it .
Blame it on Cain ( e ) .	Nicholas Ray's heroes often have problems with their family : Plato ( " rebel without a cause " ) , Davey ( " Run for cover " ) and Turkey ( " Johnny Guitar " are in search of parents . Judy ( " rebel " ) has parents who do not care about her whereas Jim ( same film ) is ashamed of his father washing up . On the contrary , Ed's son ( " larger than life " ) has an over possessive dad . . . Christabel is an orphan . She's got a wealthy uncle and an aunt . The way she despises this old woman is astonishing : " Curtis and I , we would like you to stay with us a little longer but you know . . . " or " Oh don't worry she'll be alright " . Although she never talks about her parents , Christabel has a grudge against the whole world . She was born to be bad , her purpose is not to be happy but to make sure that the others are not . Like a spoiled child , as soon as she gets something , she wants something else ( the ending is revealing ) . Joan Fontaine , cast against type , portrays a devil with the face of an angel . She never talks loud . The way she uses to break Curtis / Donna ' s relationship is sheer Machiavelism : " why not put her to the test ? she does not want to marry you for your money but . . . ' . Christabel is perhaps the most perfidious woman - along Mercedes McCambridge's Emma in " Johnny Guitar " - in Ray's whole work . Her portrait ( by Mel Ferrer cast as a painter ) provides the movie with its only comic relief . Its price rises as Christabel makes the headlines . Two years later , Billy Wilder would use the same gag in " Ace in the hole " aka " the big carnival " .
why can't I be you ?	Bernard Frédéric ( Benoît Poelvoorde ) devoted his life to his biggest icon Claude François , perhaps the most famous mainstream French singer in the seventies . To fully live his passion and his admiration for him , he organized provincial tours in which he sang with female dancers " Cloclo " ' s most popular songs , flanked by his associate Couscous who assured the first parts of his shows , dressed as Michel Polnareff's double . But today , galvanized by his wife Véro ( Julie Depardieu ) who forced him to choose between her or his god , his once exciting life got bogged down in a humdrum one . An employee in a bank , he also lives in a modest suburban house until one day , his former chum approaches him again to prompt him to attend a TV show about celebrity doubles . Frédéric can't withstand to the desire to attend it , dressed as Claude François . But he would have to defy the promise he made to Véro who might see this as the last straw about the future of her relationship with her mercurial man . . . What can be said about a film which enjoyed a conspicuous publicity campaign and made it a household name virtually everywhere in France ? Well , visually , it's an appealing film . The director Yann Moix retorted to a quite kitsch cinematography with often gaudy colors to recreate the aura of the Claude François mania in the seventies . A mania which is still vivacious today in Frédéric's mind and in his relentless training to be on this vital TV show about double celebrities . A quirky directing with split-screens which includes authentic footage dating from the seventies and an epileptic editing consolidates this whimsical menu . One word about the last sequence : Moix doesn't tap overflowing effects to leave the viewer speechless about the harrowing vibe the scene conveys and one forgets its formulaic character . Then , the scenario seems to have been sedately written . It's true that the scriptwriters including Olivier Dazat follow an ultra-mapped scheme to tell Frédéric's efforts to reach the TV show which seems to be the most crucial thing on earth for him . However , there's more on the paper and to the picture than meets the eye . This scenario has its moments and they are numerous like when it comes to showcase and construe Frédéric's apparently simple but complex persona . He's a lackluster man when Claude François isn't on his mind but when his passion for Claude François has the upper hand and his determination to reform his female dance band make his demeanor with his surrounding hateful , obnoxious , on the brink of the unacceptable as the sequences when he selects his female dancers and then asks her questions ( he has all the answers ) about his god bear witness . But he's especially guided by his former tour companion , Couscous , deemed as disreputable by Véro . In a way , this hare-brained Polnareff's double is his evil genius because he indirectly jeopardizes Frédéric's couple to make him resume his one-time favorite activities . It's all the more serious as Véro is deeply enamored of her man . Moreover , does headstrong Frédéric's imagination play tricks on him ? Is the sequence during which he's phoned by Claude François a dream or an hallucination ? So , the scriptwriters have penned a cohesive screenplay which concerns nearly all of us , at least the ones who have heroes in any domain in life . To which extent , can we go to fully identify oneself with a celebrity for whom one is in awe ? Could it make us cut off from the reality ? Doesn't one risk a split personality ? " Podium " was basically a novel written by Moix himself for Benoît Poelvoorde to convince him to transpose it to the silver screen and to act in it . It bore fruit . The Belgian actor , once revealed with the half-gruesome , half-wacky " C'est Arrivé Près De Chez Vous " ( 1992 ) carries an important part of the film on his shoulders and his input both in the film and in his role is visible . His charisma , François ' songs he heartily sings , the choreography are reproduced with painstaking application . But the rest of the cast isn't sacrificed . Julie Depardieu , ( Gérard's daughter ) acts her role with reserve and self-control and deftly circumvents the drawbacks her role was tending . Jean-Paul Rouve , him , keeps a part of mystery to Frédéric's sidekick and Polnareff's double . On the surface , the story of " Podium " smells the reheated but the authors had the gusto to cool it down to better entertain the viewer and to arouse essential questions about his tastes and likes . This a little oddball film should appeal to Poelvoorde's fans and to " Cloclo " ' s . And as soon as the film ends , French viewers , be prepared to hum his tunes . All together now : " Alexandrie , Alexandra " , " Des Magnolias Par Centaines ! " etc . . .
a maverick main protagonist in a maverick western	In the nineties , western was somewhat ditched in the landscape of the American cinema in spite of commendable endeavors to renew it like Clint Eastwood's revisionist , dusky " Unforgiven " ( 1992 ) . " Maverick " hasn't got the pretensions to give the genre a new lease of life but is much fun to watch . It is one of Richard Donner's most palatable efforts in a filmography dominated by action-packed stories like the " Lethal Weapon " saga . It even predates a fashion which was to thrive in the following decade in the Hollywood industry : to adapt a TV series for the silver screen . I must admit that I have never seen an installment of the " Maverick " series . Action-packed stories are Donner's specialty and he knows his job . There are action and stunts in " Maverick " coupled with twists as one could wish , particularly in the end . They are part of a droll , fantastic story lived by a threesome of delightful actors who are linked through bickering , deceits to collect the necessary amount of money to take part in a poker tournament . But Donner goes beyond this and rehashes some distinctive elements of the western ( Indians , sinister-looking killers , representative scenery like the saloon , the bank or habits like gambling ) but gives them a zany inflexion . So , Donner's shooting of Maverick's incredible story never takes itself too seriously and takes often a leap into uproarious laughter . The filmmaker takes pleasure in deceiving the audience about several apparent self-explanatory actions Maverick is about to do . Towards the beginning of the film , he takes his shirt off in front of Annabelle . No , he doesn't want to make love with her but wants her to wash it ( the shirt ) ! Or later when he presses his ear against the ground . No , it's not to hear whether the Indians are very close but " I'm going to have a rest while waiting for the white men dressed as Indians ! " . Needless to add that Donner has fun with the clichés linked to the western and most notably the Indians and the sinister-looking killers and it helps to produce hilarious sequences ( my favorite one is when Maverick is " prisoner " in the tribe of the Indian chief Joseph ) . Mel Gibson is one of Donner's favorite actors and here he simply fits in and doesn't go far . He gives a lot of presence to his incorrigible egocentric poker player sometimes unpredictable in his actions . Jodie Foster and James Garner are prime secondary roles who perfectly complete themselves with Gibson . Certain of the strong points ( a cinematographic genre , here the western , for fun , an assumed zany tone , a controlled direction of actors ) which make of " Maverick " a prime product will leave the duo Donner / Gibson for their collective effort three years later , " Conspiracy Theory " ( 1997 ) which will deal a severe blow to the success of this collaboration .
When I wear this mask , I can be whatever I want . . .	A quite important number of movies paid a tribute to Tex Avery's cartoons like " who framed Roger Rabbit ? " . " The Mask " ranks among them and is a great success , although this movie takes back some characteristics suitable to American movies and particularly this one : the transition for a character from a low level to the degree of hero . Here , the main protagonist ( Jim Carrey ) is introduced as a clumsy person in the beginning . But the discovery of a weird mask will turn his life upside down and make him become the hero of " Edge City " . This mask will also allow him to conquer Cameron Diaz's heart and to triumph over a gang who wished to take the city under control . As a consequence , the movie uses a globally thin and convenient screenplay but fortunately , it's compensated by the funny moments where " the Mask " tops the bill and this is the occasion to intervene a fanciful , but efficient humor that finds again the devastating tone of the cartoons from the forties and the fifties . It also doesn't hesitate in parodying the gangster movies from the thirties and even " gone with the wind " . Jim Carrey's performance remains one of his best to date . He's well directed and never hams it up unlike the silly " Ace Ventura in Africa " . Let's add an amusing description of the Kellaway cop ( Peter Riegert ) . A movie eventually entertaining enough to sustain the interest in spite of its weaknesses .
the lady who must be killed	The Coen brothers are among the darlings of French press specialized in cinema and throughout the years I have warmed to their quirky universe either it is " Barton Fink " ( 1991 ) and its unusual climate , this sparkling black diamond that is " Fargo " ( 1996 ) or the zany transposition of the Odyssey at the time of the Great Crisis in " O ' Brother Where Art Thou " ( 2000 ) . This commissioned work that was to be directed first by Barry Sonnenfield , " the Ladykillers " met lukewarm reviews in the summer 2004 . True , it's a very talky movie in which sometimes too many cues trammel sincere bursts of laughter ( the moment when Tom Hanks explains to Irma P . Hall the truth about his real intentions ) . The interest is uneven about the different installments of the plot because of the care given to them . Too much time is spent about the efforts made by the bunch to achieve their break-in and not enough time is devoted about the means undertook by the bunch of baddies to get rid of their female owner and its results . And the pure linearity of the plot is a bit too blatant . But overall this remake of a British film made in 1955 is fun to watch . This is a remake transcended in a stylish treatment , the one that typifies the Coen brothers trademark . First at the level of the story : a main character who has a somber plan in mind which will go unravel because of unexpected circumstances . Then , the Coen brothers are always on top form when they depict a gallery of like-minded weirdos . Here , a dumb Chinese general with always a cigarette between his lips , a tough football player with nothing in his head , a restless black employee of the casino , a bald technician are under the professor's command and are linked by a ramshackle alliance in which bickering and feuds brew . Laughter are really here with enormous gags which give the film accents of slapstick comedy . This vivid description is doubled with a sharp satire of America imbued with religious values . The casino is located in Sodome and the river is called the Styx . It would also be difficult to resists Tom Hanks who is irresistible as the elegant , mean professor keen on ancient languages and also the brain of the operation . All these assets constitute a solid , defensive alibi to justify the change of scenery . The filmmakers also capture the vibe and mentality of the people who are rooted in the Deep South . So , this oddball overhaul exudes an effervescent , communicative treat and to deem the Coen brothers ' 2004 vintage as a miscarriage is exaggerated . Perhaps not as indispensable as " Fargo " or " the Big Lebowski " ( 1998 ) but worth a watch all the same .
Le Festin De Pierre	In France , every Moliere lover remembers the sixties MTV version featuring Michel Piccoli's memorable performance . The " modern " ending which broke with Molière's " hullabaloo " did not satisfy everybody though . Jacques Weber's ending is even more disturbing : Don Juan's screams turn into a whisper ; ditto for Sganarelle's last monologue ( " Mes Gages ! Mes Gages " ) : Michel Boujenah is begging near a church and he too murmurs . Don Juan 1998 has a very low rating which is , IMHO , totally irrelevant . Unlike most of Molière's best plays , this one was perfectly suited to a cinematographic treatment since the action takes place by the sea , in a forest . . . Weber's screenplay follows the play with some differences : Don Juan and Sganarelle are accompanied by a servant ( ? ) whose role is completely pointless ; the scene when Don Juan asks a poor man to swear if he wants a coin is not included . Don Juan and Sganarelle travel across a desolate Spain , in a world in ruin but which has forgotten it's in ruin . Don Juan's privileged vice , hypocrisy , makes him a rebel in a society where the higher clergy and the nobles rule , thus not a totally negative character . An atheist whose biggest belief is that two and two is four . The statue of the Commendatore ( reduced to a large head , plus a big hand in the final scene ) on a boat at night displays Fellini's influence , particularly ( what a coincidence ! ) " Fellini-Casanova " An user wrote that Emmanuelle Béart was wasted : the part of Elvira consists of two or three scenes anyway . Béart is beautiful but I found her diction unsatisfying : she speaks too quickly , swallowing her words .
the missing link between Stahl and Sirk .	Melodrama had come a long way between the thirties austere black and white Stahl tear-jerkers to the fifties flaming Sirk extravaganzas , which were often remakes of the first director's works ( " when tomorrow comes " " imitation of life " " magnificent obsession " ) At the beginning of the fifties , Wyler - who had already approached melodrama ( " Mrs Minniver " , " little foxes " and even elements of his admirable " best years of our lives ) opted for full bore weepie , the " enough is enough " genre and thus anticipated on the great maudlin movies of the fifties which was another golden era for the style , not only Douglas Sirk but also Minelli , Cukor , Dmytryk , King . . . Jennifer Jones , the romantic actress par excellence , is the bridge between the two eras : she has nothing to do with Irene Dunne or Margaret Sullavan because she's primarily an intuitive : her face is constantly longing for the love which ceaselessly eludes her : no actress succeeded as she did as far romantic passion is concerned ( " duel in the sun " " madame Bovary " " Ruby Gentry " are good examples ) . And yet , despite the title , the plot focuses on Olivier's character . the great thespian is very moving , going from riches to rag with equal command . The plot encompasses everything that makes a melodrama a delight for afficionados of the genre . Olivier's downfall is almost realist - and sometimes recalls Murnau's " der Letzte Mann " ( 1924 ) . Wyler depicts his plight and humiliation in lavish detail . That's strange , because , generally , man is spared in melodramas . The legendary depth of field you can find in any Wyler movie is used with great results in the scenes when Carrie comes for the first time in the luxury restaurant where she's invited .
A black cat crossed my path . . .	A sailor says : " it will be a bad voyage " . " Eight of hearts and Nine of spades " says another one " I don't see any good coming out of it " . " la Rose des Mers " is an old ship whose two owners are a wicked sinister-looking uncle and his loyal nephew . The old captain claims he carries spare parts of agricultural machines : his hold is actually full of bricks ; he wants to sink his ship and to cash the insurance premium . All his crew ( a crew of " pirates " the nephew dixit ) knows about it but one , an honest father . When the nephew sees through the trick , he tries to rebel but his uncle starts to make threats . There's not enough room on the lifeboat so . . . The movie begins as a true film noir but when a stowaway is discovered , it turns melodramatic . But the screenplay remains absorbing , and the two leads are excellent : Fernand Ledoux finds in " La Rose de La Mer " one of his rare villain roles . Matching him every step of the voyage , is Roger Pigaut's Jerome , an idealist who prefers a baby's smile to 90 kg of " rotten meat " . Jerome is the hero in the noblest sense of the term . The lines even includes black humor : " A wreckage with a drowned person , it's a real wreckage ! " Some Baroncelli's works deserve to be watched : " la Duchesse de Langeais " " Les Mysteres de Paris " and this " Rose de la Mer " are part of them . Like this ? try this . . . . " Ghost ship " Mark Robson / Val Lewton
the existentialist crisis of a ghost writer in his early thirties . . .	Raphaël Jullian ( Edouard Baer ) is a specialist when it comes to pen biographies of trendy celebrities . But the least glorious part of his job is that he doesn't sign them when these books are published . As he's hired to write the life of a famous football player , Kevin ( Clovis Cornillac ) , he discovers that the latter's girlfriend is one of his old loves ! With the indecision that best characterizes him , he tries to win her back while jeopardizing both his relationship with his current girlfriend Muriel and his work for the football player . The thing that seduced me the most in this droll comedy as one could wish , although the director Laurent Tirard inserted melancholic moments which never break the tone and the storytelling of the film is the things Raphaël and Kevin say about books dealing with celebrities . These books are written with short sentences and when the publication of one of these books is announced , it is bound to become a best-seller . And of course , in this film it will happen . These details are minor but when they surface , one can't help but smile listening to them . Everything revolving around them rings true as well as some aspects of Raphaël's job . I particular dig the moment when to illustrate a strong contrast , he tells the audience in a voice-over that his job partly consists in turning a gloomy childhood into a victorious life where dreams come true for a star . With his witty lines and some good gags , Laurent Tirard's film also owes a lot to its actors . With his undetermined look , his inability to properly take a decision and assume it to the end , his awkward approach , Edouard Baer is a major asset for Tirard's film . He was the ideal man for this role unlike Claude Miller's versatile " Betty Fisher et Autres Histoires " ( 2001 ) . And the direction of actors doesn't lie fallow . I was very taken with Marie-Josée Croze and the formidable sincerity she gave to her character Muriel . Clovis Cornillac is also well served with his football player Kevin who is as uncertain as Raphaël but on another basis . He doesn't know which style to confer to his biography ! Why not " à la Charles Baudelaire " ? Unless another idea comes to his mind . . . The film showcases a scene which sums up best Raphaël's antsy state of mind : he's in his car on a street of Paris . The lights turn green but he doesn't move off and starts to cry . Not only because of Jeff's death but also because of the ghost life he leads in which he acts an impostor . It's high time he set out his stalls and a chain of unexpected events will unconsciously steer him towards his real direction . . .
not bad . . .	Alain Chabat is a very popular French actor . This movie constitutes his first transition behind the camera . Far from being a perfect success , " Didier " remains a fair and honest comedy . Alain Chabat adopted a correct making that contains interesting clever visuals and ringing brainwaves . It succeeds in compensating a rather slight screenplay . It's based on a convenient situation : this is the story of a man ( Jean-Pierre Bacri ) who's very embarrassed because he's got to cope with several problems , especially professional . One of his friend asks him to take care of his dog , " Didier " . One morning , " Didier " has become a man . . . Moreover , some parts of the screenplay make it conventional , Didier will find out ( unwittingly ) the solution to solve his master's worries and predictable ( imagine the feelings of people who see a man on the street who behaves like a dog ) . At last , the movie loses of its lure when it comes to deal with football ( Jean-Pierre Bacri plays the role of an unlucky trainer ) . Despite everything , some dialogs and several sequences are funny enough to burst into laughter . The result isn't great but it's nice . It's also a movie with an ounce of fantastic . One last thing : Alain Chabat had the good idea by not revealing the truth about Didier's transformation into a man .
only God can see you Denis and only love can break your heart	Since " Versailles Rive Gauche " ( 1992 ) , the Podalydès brothers rank among the darlings of the French press and critic specialized in cinema . This movie " Dieu seul me voit " ( 1998 ) confirms it . It achieved a huge success more critic than commercial and it won the Oscar for the Best First Work in France in 1999 . I watched it recently and I thought it wasn't bad . It's obvious that the Podalydès brothers have got a certain talent as a director ( Bruno ) and as an actor ( Denis ) . Both have concocted a light and subtle movie which isn't however devoid of weaknesses . To sum up this film , someone told me this sentence : " a recording engineer drowned in his loving problems " . It can be checked in one sequence , at the end of the film , when Albert ( Denis Podalydès ) is in front of the Versailles castle after the demonstration with all the women he charmed . Otherwise , I don't think the sentence suits well to the opus . I would have chosen " a recording engineer hesitating between several loving conquests " . Moreover , Albert mainly evokes a loving Candide . Then , " Dieu seul me voit " is supposed to be a comedy . It's rather true . There are , actually two kinds of comic . Firstly , a comic that emanates from the dialogs and secondly , situation comedy . Using these two devices , Bruno Podalydès , let's admit it doesn't always hit the bull's eye but when he succeeds in it , it's a delightful result . But I also thought that most of the sequences were of varying quality : if the ones that take place in Toulouse turn out to be particularly successful , others are badly mastered : when Albert's having dinner with Anna in the " Klow restaurant " . At the end , the whole gives a nice movie even imperfect . A remark : the Podalydès brothers are big fans of Tintin and " Dieu seul me voit " contains three nods at the famous reporter : - in Albert's flat , there's a little copy of the red and white rocket . - when Albert eats out with Anna , this is the " Klow restaurant " and the waiter's got the same aspect as the one in the Tintin's album : " King Ottokar's sceptre " . - at last when Albert is at the advance poll , he wears nearly the same clothes as Tintin : a white shirt and a blue sweat shirt .
molded doll , my role is to serve you . . .	This first movie of a woman directly come from French television is based on comparatively classic basis . Albert Dupontel plays the role of Max , a man who has everything to be happy : a stable job as a photograph , a ravishing wive ( Marianne Denicourt ) but little by little , depression overcomes him so much so that nearly nothing interests him . One night , during a night of drinking bout , he orders on Internet a molded doll as tall as him called Monique . It doesn't take him long to fall in love with her and to look after her as good as possible to the surprise of his friends . By reading this summary of the story , it is evident that Valérie Guignabodet , at least in the first part of her movie was influenced by " Kennedy et moi " ( 1999 ) , a film made by Sam Karmann starring Jean-Pierre Bacri . The latter and Albert Dupontel act the same type of character and present several similarities . They're both family fathers . They are sick of their respective lives . Their wives deceive them with lovers . But at least they find some comfort with their fathers who live in old people's homes . But especially , they regain strength thanks to silly actions . If Bacri found taste for life again because he could get the watch of his shrink ( the one that Kennedy wore on the day he was killed ) , here Dupontel , his love for a molded doll makes him happy and Monique doesn't leave Dupontel's friends indifferent . Except for the will to show that her main character treats " Monique " like a real woman , Valérie Guignabodet also directed her movie on the meetings between Max's friends and " Monique " as well as the consequences . Through this method we can formulate that " Monique " , for the male characters , is the perfect woman , the one that every man would like to get which cause their wives ' frustrations . Guignabodet's work is a good one and if she doesn't avoid the predictable sudden new developments , if her style contains ponderousness , if the film writing lacks coherence towards the end , her movie reserves good moments and it often borders on the surrealism and the politically incorrect . Moreover , the absurdity of the sequences where we see Max taking care of her lifeless love is enhanced by a photography with very kitsch colors and the chosen songs give to the movie a crazy air . Valérie Guignabodet's career as a film-maker is in a good way as this globally successfully movie shows .
another Tim Burton winner	The strange , the bizarre , old legends have always fed Tim Burton's imagination and so , he had to discover and to get enthusiastic about the legend of the Headless Horseman . At the very end of the eighteenth Century , Ichabot Crane ( Johnny Depp ) is a young inspector who only trusts rationality to clarify the numerous murders in New York and he is indignant at the imprisoning ways for the culprits . To put his convictions to the test , the leaders of the city send him in a small isolated village , Sleepy Hollow to investigate on a series of murders committed by a mysterious headless horseman . As it was expected , his rational thoughts collapse but don't stop him from slowly garnering clues about the horseman . The whole affair involves manipulation , witchcraft and the authorities of the village seem to be the targets of " the monster " . Every time we're about to discover a Tim Burton piece of work , we can be sure of one thing that can be proof of artistic achievement : the aesthetic beauty that shrouds many of the filmmaker's works . From this perspective , " Sleepy Hollow " is an aesthetic refinement with its somber cinematography that highlights the disquieting landscapes , especially when the headless horseman appears . But also the shady places of the village . Black and gray are the prevailing colors of this Gothic tale . This visual splendor redeems certain clumsy steps of the plot where the interest somewhat depletes like for instance the moment when Depp is shaken in his bed because he realized the headless horseman existed and also the nearly end of the film when too many explanations about the horrid facts were given in one sequence . But the strong visual appeal of this tale which reminds the ones we used to read as children makes you effortlessly forget these weak points that also include the inhabitants ' perception towards Crane . See his arrival in the village when the villagers close their shutters in front of him . Once again , Johnny Depp owes a great deal to Tim Burton to have given him a role worthy of his wide acting skills . With " Sleepy Hollow " , the filmmaker gave us a Gothic tale for adults , teenagers which is bound to remind them of their childhood nightmares as well as a momentous work in a prestigious filmography .
Nearer to thee my God . .	The granddaddy of all the disaster movies which thrived during the seventies but much different and much better than any of them . Actually , " San Francisco " might look like an update version of " the last days of Pompei " by Bulwer Lyton . . . Or some update of those Genesis pages which deal with those doomed Sodom and Gomorrah towns . That is to say how religion plays a prominent part in this earthquake story . The priest - a nice Spencer Tracy - urges the sinner Gable to come back to God , and he tells singer McDonald that Frisco is just a heathen town . . . and the natural disaster neatly appears as God's punishment , revenge . And however , unlike the seventies disaster flicks of the seventies , there are no real " heroes " - whose percentage of loss in this kind of tale is pretty low nay nil - or " villains " - who provide the raw material when the storm is raging furiously . No cardboard characters , no couple-whose-marriage-is-on the-rocks , no coward-who-redeems-himself , no . . . . ( check the " modern " disaster movies ) A disaster movie which is primarily a musical . Mac Donald sings ceaselessly and what's exciting is that her songs never come at the most awkward moment : they perfectly fit in the action . Whatever she sings , from these laudable canticles ( nearer to thee my God ) to music hall stuff ( San Francisco open your golden gate ) to opera ( her version of Gounod's " Air des Bijoux " is really impressive ) it always comes at the right time . " San Francisco " is an excellent show which remains eminently watchable today .
I see dead people . . . .	Here comes Bruce Willis again in the skin of a rescuer ! But unlike " the fifth element " and " armageddon " , he mustn't save the whole wide world . Neither , must he save a group of persons from a terrorist threat as it was the case with " die hard . No , he simply must save a little boy called Cole , haunted by morbid visions and Willis , a reputable psychologist tries hard to heal him . . . With " fight club " and " the blair witch project " , " the sixth sense " ranks among the best movies made in 1999 . It also ranks among the movies that you must watch several times before really appreciating it . If you're watching this movie for the first time , you might be disappointed because there are numerous details that can escape your attention and however , they are important for the development of the story . The same thing can also be said for a few scenes , especially the one when Willis is in a restaurant with his wife facing him . . . Because the main strength of the movie is its screenplay . Rarely , a movie has been so well served by a watertight screenplay . It's disconcerting , disturbing and however perfectly coherent . For a long part , the movie is a beautiful " trompe l'oeil " . On another hand , it's a pleasure to see Bruce Willis get out of his usual roles where he mostly plays the he-man . In " the sixth sense " , it's obvious that he's between the hands of a conscientious and well-organized director . But he isn't the main center of the movie . This place goes to Haley Joel Osment . His performance in the role of a tormented and neurotic boy is extraordinary . Besides , he can be considered as a faraway cousin of Danny , the little boy in Kubrick's " shining " because they've got a common point : an odd power supernatural and all in all , the dead people who haunt Cole aren't so terrible as they look like : they're simply asking him for help . . . At the end , a fascinating movie held up by two great actors .
Dance with she-wolves	Aside from Hitchcock's " Vertigo " and Clouzot's " Diaboliques " which are still unsurpassed , the best adaptation of a Boileau-Narcejac novel for the screen . Whereas the two masters completely rewrote the stories , the screenplay of " les Louves " was reworked by the novelists themselves . This is an absorbing suspense from the railroad tracks at dawn where you've got to watch out for trains going nowhere to that house in the country where the hero feels that he is fading little by little . Two prisoners of war escape from a camp . One of them has a soldier wartime woman pen friend he wants to marry , a person he never met . But he dies and his pal takes his name ( impostors have always played a prominent part in thrillers : to name but two , both William Irish ( " I married a dead man " ) and Patricia Highsmith ( " The talented mister Ripley " ) brilliantly succeeded ) . When he arrives in the " Marraine de Guerre " ' s home , the plot thickens . It seems that the woman's sister knows more than she should . And his own " sister " Julia is coming any day know . How will he be able to go on lying and pretending he is someone he is not ? Luis Salvsky has a dream of a cast , his four leads being part of the creme de la creme of French actors : François Perier as the unfortunate victim who will discover that there's much more worse than a prisoners camp ; Micheline Presles as his pen friend , prepossessing , but isn't it strange that a woman takes a man she's never met before to be her husband ? Jeanne Moreau as Presles's sister , a sensual woman , who enjoys séances in the dark where she reveals things better left unsaid ; and to top it all , Madeleine Robinson , as the dead soldier's sister , who welcomes the impostor as " her dear little Bernard " . This fabulous quartet takes the film out on a level of stratospheric intensity . Often filmed in close shots , their faces are like disturbing masks . Their eyes are always telling lies and the viewer , caught with them in a devilish trap , needs a breath of fresh air after the last sequence , to be avoided by people suffering from claustrophobia . This is another fine French film noir of the fifties , when the genre was thriving before the new wavelet butchered it .
. . you've got to take it .	You do not change a winning team : the trio Hudson-Wyman-Moorehead is reunited again after the success of the remake of Stahl's " magnificent obsession " . And however , these two Sirk works are completely different . The first one is full of unlikelihoods , the plot is so maudlin that , had Wyman not recovered sight , you would have spent the entire night sobbing . It's an exponential tear-jerker . Do not get me wrong : I do love " magnificent obsession " , because I do love melodramas , but I want to point out that , in fact , " All that heaven allows " is closer to the psychological drama , with a social satire thrown in . A whole scene is given over to a discussion about THoreau's philosophy , who , like Jean-Jacques Rousseau , lauds a return to a simple life , close to the nature . And the hero is a gardener , who's got his simple values and who does not care if Wyman's chic clique snubs him . Besides , the widow ' s children cannot stand that their mother dare love a man who's not part of the elite of the small town , and who's younger than her , at that ! The plot in " all that heaven . . . " is simple and clear : the pursuit of happiness sometimes takes roundabout roads , but you ' ve got to get rid of social conventions , of so-called friends who think they got it made , of the mask you hide behind . That's the gardener ' s strength : he's himself , strong as the proverbial rock . The heroine will find her way , when she's offered a TV set by her children ( to help her to forget his impossible love ) . Sitting alone in front of the empty screen , she sees her reflection : is it the real me ? she seems to think .
the intense humming of evil	With " Silence of the Lambs " ( 1991 ) , Jonathan Demme achieved a masterstroke and his movie became one of the landmark movies made in the nineties . The reward of his efforts were the following ones : 5 Oscars in 1992 including Best Movie and a widely deserved blockbuster . This is a movie that enjoys a performance of a high quality with , of course Jodie Foster and Anthony Hopkins who dominate the cast . The former is absolutely convincing in her role of ambitious trainee who gradually realizes that if she wants to nab " Buffalo Bill " , she has to face and overcome her fears . All this with " a little help " from Hopkins who finds in this movie one of his best roles and offers a remarkable and especially unforgettable composition of his character : Hannibal Lecter . Besides , concerning this character , more than fascination , this is nearly liking that we feel for this monster . On another hand , his confrontations with Clarisse are the key-moments of the movie where we can notice a careful work on the light , the scenery and the framing . In " Silence of the Lambs " , Demme plays with the spectator's nerves , avoids as much as possible the bloody sequences and creates suspense the following way : throughout the movie , there's a constant tension that starts with the warnings given to Clarisse before her first meet with Lecter . Then , it becomes more marked with Lecter's escape and it reaches a peak with Clarisse's final dual with " Buffallo Bill " . The whole is well-orchestrated by Demme thanks to a witty making . At last , even if the end reveals an inevitable happy-end , the very last sequence is here to remind us that one of the two monsters in the movie is still alive and he will keep on getting himself talked about ( Hannibal , 2001 ) . A terrific and terrifying thriller . Highly recommended and this is one of the very few movies that will haunt you for a long time after you watched it .
this is a lie	A first rate actress , Nicole Gacia also produced films of varying quality : " Un Week-End Sur Deux " ( 1990 ) was a estimable piece of work but its follow-up " le Fils Préféré " ( 1994 ) got bogged down in a river of clichés . These two works revealed Garcia's strong interest for the family and " L'Adversaire " revives her fascination for it . It is sourced from Emmanuel Carrère's novel which is a true story . On the 09th January 1993 , Jean Claude Romand killed his wife , children and parents because he was about to be unmasked . The investigation will reveal that he wasn't a doctor but an impostor who had been lying for eighteen years . The female director changed the names but kept the thread of the last moments of this extreme story . Nicole Garcia walks away with honors and respect of a story which was difficult to shot in its entirety : how to assess a solitary , absent , tormented life of an unfathomable man with elusive thoughts facing the others ? Some moments were also unimaginable ( the killing of the children but with an accurate sense of directing , by keeping a low profile , by highlighting the somber scenery when her hero is all alone without extreme effects , the female director makes us really feel the loneliness of this mysterious man who just confides his secrets to a videotape . What increases the malaise is that Garcia removed any explanation or even little clues likely to shed light on his demeanor . With Faure's nonsensical actions and as the tragedy looms , the viewer will learn some astounding facts about his past like his refusal to pass his medicine exams in his second year at university . Daniel Auteuil is like good wine : he improves with age and " l'Adversaire " bears witness of it . He's just mind-boggling and it's impossible not to remain indifferent to this incredible experience which really happened .
Swing low , sweet chariot .	That was Duvivier's last work before WW2 , and a remake of Victor Sjostrom's eponymous movie , adapted from Selma Lagerlof . I've not seen the silent movie so I will avoid any comparison . . Duvivier's precedent movie " la Fin du Jour " still compares favorably to " Sunset Blvd " when it comes to depicting the aging thespians's tragedy . Duvivier is the French prince of the film noir , but I guess he could not provide the terrified 1939 audience with another of his despairing movies . " La charrette fantôme " is looked upon as a failure by most of the French critics as the follow-up ( " Untel Père et Fils " ) is but it should not be dismissed so quickly . Its conclusion might seem ponderous , full of finer feelings , a bit Capraesque . But the overall atmosphere is black : " it's not the infected beds they should burn , it's the whole humanity ! " a character says in the house for homeless the Salvation Army has built . Pure Duvivier line . Most of the movie takes place in the dregs of society where a sister ( Micheline Francey ) suffering from TB is desperately trying to save an alcoholic tramp ( Pierre Fresnay ) and to bring him back to his wife and kids . He had a friend , one of the last lonely and wretched like him , ( Louis Jouvet ) who died the last day of the precedent year and became the coachmann of the " Ghost Wagon " ( hence the title ) . And the sister fears he might be the next coachman as he might die at the end of this year . The realistic story and the supernatural one do not hang well , and the line ( " get out of your prison " ) the coachman repeats to the dead is a bit ludicrous ( but we have seen worse by today's standards ) . The special effects are not that much bad for 1939 and were probably inspired by previous experiments by Abel Gance ( " J'accuse " ) . Despite these reservations , Duvivier's directing remains impressive . There are great scenes in this uneven effort : a burning with fever Jouvet crawling on the snow-covered roof of the hospital ; the old lady too tired to carry on her earthly ride ; the luminous beaming face of Micheline Francey Duvivier lovingly filmed ; Fresnay in a bout of delirium tremens trying to force his way in his house ; his wife thinking of poisoning her children before herself . Duvivier was probably a believer : after all , he directed a life of Saint Therese de Lisieux well before Alain Cavalier , and even though most of his brilliant filmography depicts a terrifying humanity when he reportedly lost his faith , he probably never lost his faith in a superior strength . And on account of the impending mortal storm ( to quote Frank Borzage ) that was to fall on the human race at the time , who could blame him ?
Do or die .	After several indifferent movies , Boisset came up in 1981 with his best film since " Dupont-Lajoie " ( 1974 ) . " Allons z'enfants " is Boisset doing what Boisset does best : activist militant cinema . Yves Gibeau's novel was tailor-made for him . Anti-militarism is the keyword . Rarely ( with the exception of " RAS " ( 1973 ) ) Boisset had displayed such hatred for the army . The " Enfants de Troupe " , those military secondary schools which lasted till the early sixties in France , are unthinkable today . The hero , who is an intellectual ( he loves cinema , literature ) and a sensitive - but not a sissy - guy is sent to one of those schools by his father ( a great Jean Carmet ) ; it's a place where childhood is stolen , where the iron discipline rules everywhere , where you cannot think , where you cannot read what you want : Erich Maria Remarque who was both a pacifist and a German and his " im Western nicht Neues " are not the welcome in the barracks . Neither is Flaubert's " Madame Bovary " which , in the hospital , the mother superior considers an adulteress affair . Remarkable scenes : - the beating up in the gym . - the scene in the cafe where the owner blames the father : " you're not a father to him , you are his warrant officer ! - the funeral and the takeover by the army of Chalumot's death , a " hero " , who " sets an example of patriotism for the young generations to come " . Boisset is at his most vitriolic style . Let's mention the dad's final line , the dad who does not shed a tear over his unfortunate son and who draws a heavy sigh " He coulda been an officer " . " Allons z'enfants " are the first words of the French national anthem " LA Marseillaise " . NB : To reward his men , the officer shows them Raymond Bernard's " Les Croix de Bois " as an example of patriotic movie . This film showed the soldier's bravery , that's true , but Bernard's purpose was to stigmatize the horrors of war , in an almost documentary style .
Fine acting , strong directing , splendid landscapes .	In the late fifties / early sixties , the crepuscular western appeared . " Ride the high country " epitomizes the genre . It keeps the old values of the old guard ( Daves , Mann , Ford ) while opening new doors ( the last scenes predate Sergio Leone style and the future Peckinpah , even if I must confess that I do not go much for his later works . There's no accounting for taste . ) " Ride the high country " has anything that makes a western worthwhile : two veterans , McCrea ( we're far from the madness of " Colorado territory " ) and Scott , getting old gracefully , a fine use of the landscapes , and two plots which hang well together : the gold powder which the two men have to take to the city and the girl who wants to marry a miner . The two stories become one in a very workmanlike way . Peckinpah's first effort " the deadly companions " , starring Ford's favorite actress Maureen O'Hara ( whom he did not like , reportedly ) is also worth watching .
Twentieth century blues . . . .	. . . Or no news is good news . ( or is it ? ) A chronicle from 1900 to 1933 ( then the present time ) . The last pictures are a terrifying warning : who could have thought that the storm that would happen at the end of that decade would dwarf all the disasters depicted in " Cavalcade " ? When the old couple celebrates the new year , the husband is quite optimistic whereas his wife seems jaded : she lost her two sons in the short space of six years . What could be more terrible for a mother ? 30th January 1933 : Hitler is the new Führer ; as the old father says : " we are no longer able to predict the future " but the whirl of " modern life " which we see on the pictures is a real warning for the audience ( and for us too ) . For these wealthy people , the world came to a halt when their beloved queen died . People will find " cavalcade " dated and old fashioned , but many of her lines have a contemporary feel : when the heroine says that time moves too fast and that she cannot adjust to these times that are constantly changing , if we are honest , we realize that when we were younger , we too were part of THE thing . . Lloyd superbly avoids melodramatic effects : the Titanic episode is remarkable ; only a date ( for those who remembers ) , a buoy and Joey's line ; when the mother says goodbye to his boy at the station , and when he meets his father who did not recognize his voice , we see in their looks it is the last time . War is everywhere , even in the theaters where girls disguised as soldiers is the best propaganda . The film is partly a musical for the songs ( music hall tunes , national hymn , auld lang syne , land of hope and glory - pomp and circumstance - ) . It's a long way from the girls of the reserve to the twentieth century blues . Like this ? try these . . . . Untel Père Et Fils ( Julien Duvivier , 1939 ) Mrs Minniver ( William Wyler , 1942 )
Each to his own . . .	. . . and I know that people will say it's soap opera ! But to make that kind of soap opera , as Stahl , Minnelli and Sirk showed it through the years , it takes some kind of genius ! First the structure : first a prologue , then flashbacks and an epilogue , which while going back to the present , connects all the links of the chain in an awesome way . It's not unlike Leisen's previous ( and remarkable too ) ' Hold back the dawn " : Lord Desham plays the same part as the director in the 1941 movie ; Although Jody does not tell her secret to him , it's finally him who makes her dream come true . " To each his own " possesses everything that makes a melodrama great : a " tearjerker " ( not meant pejoratively ) subject : the well known story of the unwed mother who's forced to leave her child to another family , it recalls " the old maid " , another classic where Bette Davis had a fate similar to her good friend Olivia de Havilland's ; and , another permanent feature of the genre , the heroine who has lost love ( or who thinks that she ' s through with it ) and who begins a formidable business woman career ( there are plenty of examples : Stahl's " Only yesterday " and " imitation of life " , Sirk's " Written on the wind " ) ; and a grandiose finale with a last sentence ( I think it is our dance , mother ) to rival the best of the last sentences . To write that De Havilland deserved her AA is to state the obvious . She actually plays three parts , with the same talent . Like her peer Davis in " the old maid " , she was not afraid of making herself look older or uglier . ( see also " the heiress " " hold back the dawn " " snake pit " ) .
Green card .	" France to the French ! " A new law - which is not irrelevant today in some people's mind - stipulates that the aliens gotta get away . Then begins another crazy Guitry film , another reductio ad absurdum that tends to show that " being honest " cannot be a job , so you've got to live outside the law to be a good man , and in the end , the facts prove you right . After hearing a woman ( Elvire Popesco ) complain about the French government which is about to drive her away of this beautiful country , Jean Lécuyer ( alias Sacha Guitry ) realizes that the only way for a woman to stay is to get married . An unconsummated marriage of course . That's his lucky break . He sets up a lucrative trade : an old bachelor's home where nine old men ( most of them were former tramps ) will wait for the ladies . And what ladies ! Marguerite Moreno is the stand out as a rich South American who made her fortune in . . . guano . In the office , she wants to make sure that these men are too old to . . . . And the tramp who marries her will have two sons-in-law : the cops ( gendarmes ) he used to meet on the streets when he was homeless . Guitry ' s lines are witty , funny as ever . Many puns , many mistaken identities ( one of the men in his wife's house : she is a madam with her whores but he does think it's her numerous daughters ) , many absurd jokes : - You've got to be sixty to be admitted in this place . Are you ? - Well , it's just a question of minutes ! now seconds ! Well I'm exactly sixty now ! Guitry , in 1939 , even predates Julien Duvivier's " La Fête à Henriette " ( 1952 ) final unexpected twist ! Guitry epitomized FRench wit at its best !
mindless drifter on the road carrying such an easy load	Agnès Varda is commonly associated with the Nouvelle Vague and more than François Truffaut , Jean-Luc " God Ard " or Eric Rohmer , she delivered some of the jewels of this French trend with " Cléo De 5 à 7 " ( 1961 ) . It doesn't mean that everything she made turned into gold . One can skip " les Créatures " ( 1966 ) without remorse . Twenty years later , she issued her strongest work since " Cléo De 5 à 7 " which justifiably dominated from an artistic perspective French cinematographic production : " Sans Toi Ni Loi " that caused a stir . It works as an alternation of flashes-back and interviews with people about their recollections involving a female rambler named Mona . We won't know much about herself . After she passed her high school diploma , she started to work for different bosses as a secretary but grew tired of his job . So , she packed in to leave for adventure through odd jobs . However , Varda's heroine keeps all her mystery and ambiguity . Are we really sure about what she says ? Doesn't she lie ? The female filmmaker doesn't comfort the audience because as the elements of the puzzle are pieced together , she throws the people who met Mona out in the same basket , either it is this university professor , this Maroccan guest worker or this former philosophy student who believed in the events of May 1968 in France : they are all responsible for Mona's death because of their egoism , their lack of communication with her . Varda delivers a similar message to her 1961 film : loneliness is a burden and it's better to open oneself to others to make things improve . " Sans Toi Ni Loi " has the form of a documentary with a gritty tonality in which the female filmmaker keeps a certain distance with her heroine and everything she goes through . Thanks to this , tawdry or violent sequences take another dimension like the moment when the garage owner leaves Mona's tent pulling up his trousers or the man who rapes her in the woods . We won't see the horrid act . Varda hired non-professional actors and that's why her film has a larger than life feel . An impression accentuated by Sandrine Bonnaire's sensational performance . She " lives " more than she acts her role . The role of this rambler fits her like a glove . This is one that can stand multiple viewings .
Do not miss this gem !	Jean Delannoy stands as one of the best ( if not simply the best ) Simenon adapters . In the short space of two years he made two gems , while the nouvelle vague was insulting him , and these two gems should not be missed : " Maigret tend un piège " and " Maigret et l'affaire Saint-Fiacre " ( 1959 ) , both absorbing , both featuring a top-notch cast , both packing a real wallop . The first one is an urban psychological thriller , the second one takes place in the country , in the castle of old aristocrats . " Maigret tend un piège " is at first sight a serial killer story , but Simenon is too subtle a writer to be content with that . And I'm sure that Jean Delannoy had seen Julien Duvivier's sensational film noir " voici le temps des assassins " ( 1956 ) : not only he casts Jean Gabin as Maigret , Gabin who was the hero of Duvivier's movie , but he also uses Lucienne Bogaert , who was his ex-wife in the same movie . Bogaert portrayed a drug addict abominable criminal in 1956 ; in Delannoy's film , she is an over possessive mother , proud of his son who could have been a sculptor , a painter , an artist , a genius , had they not thwarted his outstanding gifts . SPOILERS SPOILERS SPOILERS This son is a very complex character masterfully played by Jean Desailly , who probably found his lifetime part here : he's so intense that he will leave you ill-at-ease . He cries , screams , begs , almost never stops twitching , and his tragic strength is absolutely incredible . " Be a man ! ! ! " Gabin shouts , whereas he's an impotent little boy , under his mother's thumb . From the very beginning , - and what I write is not really a spoiler - we know he's the killer , Simenon did not write a whodunit , he's more interested in his poor man's psychology whom his mother and his wife - an excellent Annie Girardot - will try to save , stopping at nothing for that . The film begins slowly , but when it hits its stride , after about thirty minutes , it grabs you till the very end , with more and more verbal violence . No , Jean Delannoy is not the mediocre director the nouvelle vague used to despise .
I didn't see the first Spider-Man but I really enjoyed the second !	Possible spoilers . . . As I wrote in the title , I didn't watch the first Spider-Man when it was released in 2002 . But a friend invited me to go and see " Spider-Man 2 " at the movies and I honestly don't regret it at all . I was surprised to discover that Sam Raimi made this sequel ( as well as the first Spider-Man movie ) . I found out later that he is a big fan of the comic strip ; so he seemed to be cut out to shot the adventures of Peter Parker alias Spider-Man . It's better this way because this blockbuster has got plenty of qualities that worth the detour . The movie owes its success partly thanks to the nearly constant humor that are in the dialogs and also in the character acted by JK Simmons . For him , it is the opportunity to offer a delightful performance . Spider-Man 2 also enjoys quite stunning special effects which are never intrusive and used only when necessary , mainly in action or bravery sequences . But these sequences don't seem to be the most important ones in Raimi's eyes . We can't say that " Spider-Man 2 " is a pure action movie from the beginning to the end . Indeed , the director rather put the accent on the psychology of his main character , Peter Parker . He doesn't introduce him as a perfect super hero but as a clumsy young man torn between his private life that he can't manage to assume and his doubts about being Spider-Man . In short , Raimi goes against the clichés generally attributed to super heroes and offers a more complex and ambiguous view of a super hero . He also had intuition by choosing Tobey Maguire for the first role because he's truly talented and perfect . Moreover , he's got a nice personality which makes him likable straightaway . There's also an excellent choice for Kirsten Dunst whose beauty and face light the film up . With " A simple plan " ( 1998 ) , Sam Raimi had achieved a tour de force in the thriller . Here , in another extent , " Spider-Man 2 " can be taken for a new success in Raimi's work and his efforts are widely rewarded because the movie is already a huge commercial success in France . Even , if you can find faults in the film ( when Spider-Man flies in the air , the movie resembles pictures taken from a video game . The film also follows a classical outline typical from Hollywood scripts with a scientist acted by Alfred Molina who wants to use his power through his latest discovery to control New York . So , it seems that Spider-Man can be the only one to save the city . Then , the end of the movie which sees Maguire and Dunst united together lets suggest that Hollywood has been through that ) , you can only find pleasure in watching Raimi's film which should logically lean on to a third opus in the Spider-Man series . If it's the case , let's hope that Raimi will shot it and as far as I'm concerned , the success of " Spider-Man 2 " made me want to watch the first movie . But at the moment , for once that a follow-up is really successful , let's take advantage of it !
The ticket chase	" Antoine et Antoinette " is Jacques Becker's fourth movie and it takes place in a working-class milieu ; " Goupi Mains Rouges " was a rural thriller and " Falbalas " took us to the chic world of models and fashion . At first sight , " Antoine and Antoinette " could be looked upon as an update of René Clair's " le Million " . But the latter has become - at least to these eyes - unbearable with his old-fashioned " songs " and his ludicrous - with the exception of the lovely Annabella - cast . " Antoine and Antoinette " , on the other hand , retains its pristine charm , it's very well acted , and Becker's camera is fluid , his sympathy for his characters is glaring , qualities which will emerge again in such works as " Rendez-vous de Juillet " and his towering achievement " Casque D'Or " . The lottery ticket as a way out of poverty was also in Julien Duvivier's classic " La Belle Equipe " , but it was 1947 , the baby boom time when people were optimistic in France . Roger Pigaut was one of the best romantic young leads of the era , but he never became a big star , which was unfair . As for his partner , Claire Mafféi , she was virtually forgotten after Becker's film . Noel Roquevert who made hundreds of films ( he played a small part in " les Diaboliques " ) is cast against type as a vicious middle age man , trying to sleep with Antoinette . In his best works , Becker recreates a microcosm : the rural world of " Goupi " ( it may be unrealistic , it works all the same ) , the enthusiastic bunch of students in " Rendez-vous de Juillet " , the " Apaches " and their laws in " Casque d'Or " , the prisoners in their cell in " le Trou " . Here he works wonders when it comes to depicting the life of these humble people , their seedy apartments , their metro , the work they are proud of , and most of all the class solidarity through the pleasure and the pain .
A rendezvous I've been waiting so long for	While it is true that the interest for the New Wave has practically buried France's best films in a pile of neglect , it is not the purpose of this thread / comment to remind people of that sad fact . It would take at least a book to explain the history of neglect of French film classics during the last 30 years . ( Benoit A Racine , IMDb user and French cinema connoisseur ) Unless the glacier may give back its prey . . . . the fusty Cahiers du Cinema doesn't . But who knows ? Some day , some French cine buff will give a chance to " La Fille Aux Yeux Gris " and discover that Fred Zinnemann's " five days one summer " ( 1982 ) took its most mind-boggling idea from a forgotten obscure black and white French flick . Like in " Service De Nuit " , the screenplay is brilliantly written , but with better results . All the characters are vividly depicted whereas , with the exception of two of them , the heroes of Faurez's debut were rather flat . Sometimes melodramatic , sometimes wonderfully romantic ( I'm waiting for a rendezvous ; If I am not here anymore , you'll meet her ) , sometimes a movie of redemption ( the last lines for once do not concern the youth , but an old couple , sort of something like " Should I fall behind , please wait for me " ) , and even a detective story ( probably the least satisfying side of the movie ) Fernand Ledoux is the stand out of the movie , in a much more interesting part than in Faurez's Poesque " Histoires Extraordinaires " which is , of the four Faurez movies I had the opportunity to watch , the weakest . Faurez's talent has never had fair recognition ; let's hope that someday , it will . Like this ? try these . . . . Manon Des Sources , MARCEL PAGNOL ORIGINAL VERSION , 1952Five days one summer , Fred Zinnemann , 1982Rapt , Dimitri Kirsanoff , 1934Stars in my crown , Jack Tourneur , 1950
never anything to do in this town . . .	With this first movie , the filmmaker Bruno Dumont signs a work of talent and establishes himself as a real author . It is all the more extraordinary as he never studied cinema and he doesn't belong to any film school . It doesn't prevent his movie from being reminiscent of the Dardenne brothers ' cinema in its treatment : few dialogs , nearly no music , Dumont doesn't judge or criticize his characters . Neither does he judge their actions , doings and he doesn't condemn the murder of the Arab teenager . Nevertheless , Dumont has got a quality he constantly uses throughout his movie : a wide sense of observation . And sometimes , he lets express his sense of suggestion . In another hand , Dumont may be a genuine filmmaker , be that as it may , he's got a common point with Robert Bresson another French filmmaker : he hires no professional actors . We can take this characteristic for another asset in " life of Jesus " because it gives more strength and neutrality to this movie . The title of my review is extracted from a song by Steve Albini's former band Big Black : " Kerosene " in which this " enfant terrible " screams : " never anything to do in this town ! " . It's exactly the same thing in the film . During nearly one hour , nothing is happening . We only see Freddy and his mates wandering again and again in the little town of Bailleul and its surroundings given they are on the dole . I have previously written that Dumont's opus contained few dialogs . Dialogs are almost useless here . Freddy's countenance and his pals ' are sufficient enough to communicate the spectator their boredom . There are a few moments of happiness : every Sunday they play in the municipal brass band or they are going by the sea . Furthermore , Freddy takes part in competitions of chaffinch singing . But these short moments of happiness don't change anything in their lives and don't bring them hope . In another extent , when Freddy has sex with Marie , their sexual relations are very primary . It is also interesting to notice that to emphasize their humdrum life , the director uses a recurrent shot that regularly comes back throughout the film like a sort of leitmotiv : a rural or urban landscape with the gang in the middle distance or in the background . Then , gradually , this dull life turns to drama with two dramatic events : Freddy's gang rapes a young girl and they kill an Arab teenager . What shocks is the quasi-indifference of the gang . How did they arrive there ? We can put forward several explanations . I will retain this one : maybe constant boredom destroys any judgment and makes the gang narrow-minded enough to lead them to commit a murder . Bruno Dumont also achieved a tour de force in the cast . All right , the actors are no professional but they reveal themselves highly convincing . With Freddy's gang , the director draws a gallery of listless or racist characters deeply rooted in their land of the North of France . Of all these characters , we could argue that Marie is eventually the sole positive one since she doesn't want to meet the gang again ( and especially Freddy ) after the rape of the young girl and she accepts the friendship of the Arab teenager , Kader ( let's admit it not for very long ) . As for Freddy , he is a simple-minded but not really clever person . Moreover , Dumont lets us suggest his easily influenced side , particularly in the scene when they rape the young girl . His friends encourage him to act . At last , this movie contains a particularly harrowing sequence : when the gang visits one close relative of them who's dying of AIDS . One last thing and I will finish with it : why did Bruno Dumont give his movie a title in which there's no question of Jesus ? It is a mystery but it doesn't spoil the strength of this perfectly mastered movie .
The ghost of Empress Elizabeth .	There's another side in Cocteau ' s movie : the political one . A character says something like that : a queen ' s got to be beautiful , so that she'll be able to conceal all that's ugly in the country , all the last lonely and wretched ones . The queen portrayed by Feuillère was a sovereign for democrats but she'd been knowing for a long time that power was illusive . All the pump and circumstance that surround her " come back " is some big carnival . The queen was a tragic character from the start , but Stanislas , Marais's character was not . He tries the compromise solution : he will give himself up provided that the queen returns to the world . He did not realize she could not ( " you resemble the king , you insult him " ) , in any way , look back . The marvelous first scene tells it all : " I will not shout my name for fear the mountain may echo another one " That's only when Stanislas understands what love means for the queen that he becomes his equal . Around them , a lot a mediocre persons move : the count of Foen , a puppet in the Archduchess's-whom we never see-hands , as the lady in waiting ( " reader " ) De Berg is . They spend their lives in compromise and lie , waiting for promotion and begging favors . There's no communication between them and the doomed couple . An eagle with two heads which loses one of them is bound to die .
The " learning "	Nobody spoke of children like Clarence Brown , at least in America ! Remember " national Velvet " and the last minutes of " the intruder " , the long conversation between a lawyer and his son . . . " The yearling " is learning about life . A young boy in a hostile wilderness , his everyday life , his small joys and his big griefs . . . It could be a mushy melodrama , it's never so : If it never falls in the trap of sentiment and it's entirely due to Brown's natural feeling for economy and sparseness which precludes all forms of conventional sentimentality : three children died ? He shows three graves and that's it . Jane Wyman's part is certainly the most difficult : when she finally smiles , the viewer feels happy that this kind of scene can be possible . But my favorite scene has always been Peck's speech in the little cemetery ( " because we do not know any prayer " ) where Fodderwing is being buried : it echoes the crippled boy's dreams when he and Jody spent the night in a tree - one of those magical moments of childhood - . Today's children are used to action-packed violent movies : I hope they will enjoy " the yearling " all the same .
Trois Petites Notes de Musique	Generally the simple name of Marguerite Duras makes me yawn my head off . But here , not at all . Released in 1960 , this little gem has almost sunk into oblivion , and for good reasons : Henri Colpi was not part of the Nouvelle Vague and it was a curse when His Majesty Godard's reign began . Hindsight displays the great charms of this movie : the subject is finally close to " Un long Dimanche de Fiançailles " , Jeunet's extravaganza , but it's an intimate drama and much more moving . During WW2 , Thérèse ( Alida Valli , the great Italian thespian , excellent as ever ) lost her husband ; he had been reported missing in Germany . In her small bistro , she is still waiting , waiting . . . One days she spots a tramp on the street ( George Wilson ) . Might he be the one ? Might he ? A film about souvenirs , lost illusions , fear of loneliness , nostalgia , hope against hope , " Une aussi longue absence " is all this and more . Enhanced by George Delerue's ( who else ? ) delicate score , which features the little song " Trois petites notes de Musique " ( = three little music notes ) , an infinite poetry emanates from Colpi's work . In 1960 , there was not only Truff ' or God ' in France ! Please give the non nouvelle vague directors a chance ! They were not out of breath either .
Better than Melville .	" Classes tous risques " is one of the best " gangsters " films noirs France has ever produced . Perfect cast : Lino Ventura , a young Jean - Paul Belmondo ( who made " a bout de souffle " , Godard's thing , the same year ) , Marcel Dalio and a fine supporting cast ; brilliant script by José Giovanni - who also wrote " le trou " Becker's masterpièce the same year ! What a year for him ! ; wonderful black and white cinematography by Ghislain Cloquet . And taut action , first-class directing by Claude Sautet , who surpasses Jean-Pierre Melville . Whereas the latter films gangsters movie with metaphysical pretensions , which sometimes lasts more than two hours , Claude Sautet directs men of flesh and blood , and the presence of the two children adds moments of extraordinary poignancy which Melville has never been able to generate . And Sautet avoids pathos , excessive sentimentality : the last time Ventura sees his children , coming down in the metro ( subway ) is a peak of restrained emotion . Ventura portrays a gangster whose die is cast when the movie begins . He thinks that he can rely on his former acquaintances , but they are all cowards - we are far from manly friendship dear to Jacques Becker ( " touchez pas au grisbi " ) which Melville was to continue throughout the sixties-sometimes abetted by mean women ( the film noir misogyny par excellence ) , living in a rotten microcosm , ready to inform on - we are far from Jean Seberg's simplistic behavior in Godard's " opus " - . Cloquet works wonders with the picture : the scene on the beach in a starless night when the two children see their mother die after the shoot-out with the customs officers is absolutely mind-boggling . There's a good use of voice-over , which Sautet only uses when necessary ; thus , the last lines make the ending even stronger than if we have attended the scenes . Claude Sautet had found a good niche , and he followed the " classes tous risques " rules quite well with his follow-up " l'arme à gauche " ( 1965 ) which featured Ventura again and made a good use of a desert island and a ship . Had he continued in that vein , France would have had a Howard Hawks . In his subsequent works , only " Max et les ferrailleurs " ( 1971 ) showed something of the brilliance he displayed in the first half of the sixties . He had become , from " les choses de la vie " onwards , the cinema de qualité director who used to focus on tender-hearted bourgeois in such works as " Cesar et Rosalie " ( 1972 ) , " Vincent François , Paul et les autres " ( 1974 ) or " Mado " ( 1976 )
Literature chef-d'oeuvre !	" Les Thibault " has been my bedside book for so many years ! I've read it so many times I can recite some of its lines by heart ! And it's an eight-volume 2 , 000 pages work ! A first miniseries was made in 1972 where Charles Vanel ( " Salaire de la Peur " " Diabolique " ) was an impressive Père Thibault . To people who have not read the book : you'd better see that version which is much closer to Martin du Gard's spirit . The 2003 one was freely adapted from the 1937 Noble PRIZE winner's work and they mean freely ! One should note that the actors are generally well chosen : despite all that has been said , the late Jean Yanne was not perhaps the right Père Thibault : his vulgarity which made wonders in Chabrol's great films ( " le Boucher " " Que la Bête meure " ) is sometimes embarrassing for a man who was finally a bourgeois religious ( just for show ) man . On the other hand , Jean-Pierre Lorit and above all Malik Zidi shine in their sons ' parts . Zidi outshines François Dunoyer who played Jacques's part in 1972 . The rest of the cast is uniformly good with the exception of Julie Delarme : Jenny de Fontanin was a secret sexually repressed young girl ( she could not stand being touched ! ) . Her evolution was very slow from a childhood between a mother steeped in piety and a flighty father to a strange maturity made of her love for Jacques and a burgeoning activism . It was not the actress's fault but the writers ' anyway . One of the biggest flaw of the miniseries is some lines of the dialog . Jacques , Daniel , Antoine and particularly Meynestrel do not speak like young men from the pre-WW1 days . They speak like today's youth , they talk of sex like today's youth , and even the father Thibault utters the word " baisable " ( = f . . . . . . able ) . Martin du Gard would turn in his grave ! EPISODE 1 : it consists of the two first volumes " le Cahier Gris " and " Le Pénitencier " . By and large , it's probably the most satisfying one for it does not wander too much from its model . Daniel's and Jacques's running away is tastefully rendered , even if the script insists on the scene with the prostitute whereas Martin Du Gard treated it very quickly . The reform school scenes are generally good , but it was hard to make us feel Jacques ' s humiliation and the director only partially succeeds . In spite of an occasional gaffe ( Antoine asks Lisbeth to take away his brother's innocence ) , this episode is coherent and promises great things . EPISODE 2 : it consists of the third volume " la Belle Saison " . Ruling out the Packmell nightclub scenes is a good thing for it's probably the worst moment of the whole novel . Instead , the director focuses on Maisons-Laffite where the two families ( Thibault and Fontanin ) are neighbors . The stand-out of this second episode is arguably Amira Casar as Rachel , Antoine's one and only love . The actress is sensual , free , and beautiful and her portrayal is impressive even if , in the novel , Rachel never asked Antoine to introduce her to his father . Amira Casar outshines all the other actresses and however there are plenty of them . Florence Pernell is physically Madame de Fontanin , but it's a one-dimensional character , ; it's not the thespian's fault though : the lady was a strong believer , her faith was her way to cope with her husband's inconstancy . On the screen her motives do not make much sense . On the other hand , Malik Zidi's rebellion against his father is pure Thibault spirit . The scene does not exist in the book ( but told in Jacques's short story " la Sorellina " but the scenarists did a good job here . EPISODE 3 : although called " death of the father " , the screenplay combines this volume with the beginning of " Summer 14 " ( Oscar Thibault actually died circa 1910 ) , while incorporating elements taken from volumes which were not treated ( " la Consultation " " la Sorellina " ) It was not a bad idea either on account of the length of the book . Jean Yanne portrays a dying man with talent - sadly he was to die soon after , which makes these scenes even more moving - . One should note that the scenarists made Oscar Thibault more human ( call me " papa " , why not after all ? ) . Jacques Thibault seems very close to historical character pacifist Jean Jaurès , which he was not in the book , but it's not a big problem . EPISODE 4 : the weakest , by far . There are two good things : Jacques and Jenny , in a Paris ready for war - although their adventures were more convincing in the 1972 version - and the exceptional ten-minute performance of Lorit as a terminally-ill Antoine . As for the rest . . . The script becomes melodramatic and drastically wanders from the book ! Some characters turn up at the most awkward moments : Rachel ( who has also a scene in episode 3 ) comes back for a three-minute scene which does not bring anything to the plot ( s ) . When she is importuned by soldiers while leaving the railway station , Jenny finds brother Daniel to help her get rid of them . But Jacques's death takes the biscuit : not only he did not want to sacrifice his life ( at the end of " Summer 1914 " , the young brother Thibault is a broken disillusioned man who knows quite well that his desperate flight will be his last ) but it's Meynestrel who causes his death by committing suicide ! But the best is yet to come : as Jacques is dying , the nurse who finds him is none other than Lisbeth ! ( see episode 1 ) Enough is enough ! Only 12 minutes are given over to the admirable " epilogue " , a 300 pages volume , a strong meditation on life and death . Again , hats off to Jean-Pierre Lorit who manages to display every nuance of Antoine's desperation : he is to be commended , considering the limitations he is working under . A voice-over tells us about Jacques's son " fate " . Martin du Gard wanted to write his story but he gave up his plan circa 1930 , so Jean-Paul's " story " is the scenarists ' invention . It's certainly above-average TV stuff . But I strongly urge the users to read the books !
We shall never be slaves	I had seen Wyler's film a long time ago and I saw it again yesterday . I was afraid I might be disappointed cause I had read so many bad reviews in my native France and elsewhere ! I was not . " Mrs Miniver " belongs to its era , it's a dated movie , a propaganda movie ( as were many Lang , Hitchcock , Powell and Borzage films of that era ) , but it was made with care and respect for the audience . Okay , there are implausibilities : Mr Miniver sailing to Dunkerque to rescue his unfortunate compatriots while Mrs Miniver fights against a German spy which threatens " We will come back ! " is a bit too much . One should notice , however , the way Wyler treats the scene of the boats on river Thames , this gathering has something strange and unusual . People will also complain because the victims are a newly-wed girl , a choir boy and an old man : Wyler wanted to take a symbol , and the scene in the church explains that the war involves everybody . I read a review where the author sneers and laughs at the congregation who sings " we're Christian soldiers marching on to war " and that clever man adds " what about the Jews ? " In 1942 , nobody knew , even the French after the roundup of Jews in the Paris ( " Velodrome d'Hiver " ) , did not know what terrible fate laid in store for them . And if Wyler's message is not clear enough , the music segues from the canticle into " land of hope / pump and circumstances " as the planes are flying in the sky . People who despise Wyler ( and they are numerous in my native country ) should bear in mind that , after filming " Mrs Miniver " , Wyler joined the air force . They should also remember that Wyler was born in Alsace , at a time when that region was German . Generally people favor the scene when , during a bombing , the family takes refuge in the cellar where Mrs Minniver reads " Alice in Wonderland " . But the scenes of war and violence are few and far between . What I like best is the depiction of the daily life . It's not accurate , English people will say-but are Hollywood's depictions of France during the occupation historically relevant : Jean Renoir made himself a propaganda movie in 1941 called " This land is mine " and French people did not recognize their country when it was finally released in 1945 . This depiction is delightful : the old man from the station who grows roses and wants to give the name of Mrs Minniver to his most beautiful flower ; the grumpy dowager who thinks that " they " are too young to get married and confesses she got married at 16 . . . . . and became a widow soon afterward ; my favorite scene has nothing to do with war : it's the flowers challenge cup where Dame May Witty and Reginald Owen steal the show from the stars . Wyler used to like the family unit , particularly when they were having a bad time : in " the best years of our lives " " Friendly persuasion " " desperate hours " and . . . . even " Ben Hur " we find this subject . Wyler's legendary depth of field is always here : Vin Minniver receives " the " phone call as the rest of the family is still having dinner in the background . Greer Garson and Walter Pidgeon are an endearing couple ( even though they are too rich ( servants ) to be what the cast and credits claim " average people " . They predate Myrna Loy's and Fredric March's characters in " best years of our lives " . Teresa Wright is cute and tender . She was already in " little foxes " , she would be part of the cast of the 1945 masterpiece too .
laziness is happiness	Yves Robert passed away three years ago and any cine buff remembers him for his towering achievements that are : " la Guerre des Boutons " ( 1962 ) , an adaptation of Louis Pergaud's famous novel still fresh today as it was forty three years ago , " my Father's Glory " and " my Mother's Castle " ( 1990 ) , adaptations of Marcel Pagnol's childhood memories . And don't forget a good pack of quality comedies treated with respect and no vulgarity . This flick , " Alexandre le Bienheureux " ( 1967 ) largely deserves its place of winner among them . In 1880 , Paul Laforgue wrote and published an essay entitled : " le Droit à la Paresse " ( the Right to Laziness ) in which he offered a positive definition about this term generally considered as one of the biggest vices in the world . But Laforgue shelved the negative prejudices about it . He suggested to leave work fallow and to devote free time to rest and leisure which enabled a beneficial development for the individual . I suppose Yves Robert did the same for his movie . Without taking itself too seriously , it presents itself as a comical tale in which laziness is praised because thanks to it , happiness and the possibility to enjoy basic pleasures of life prevail . There's no need to worry about the constraints and stress imposed by work and modern society . And in the background , there's this country filmed with love and delicacy which Robert seems to know like the back of his hand . Seen today , the movie displays a few technical flaws that weren't noticeable in 1967 . Certain shots or camera movements are dated and it lets us think that the movie on a technical level hasn't worn well . But it has no importance for it kept an undeniable charm and can be watched with pleasure again . And a few funny moments in Robert's work evoke the devastating humor coming from Tex Avery's cartoons like the orchestra in front of Alexandre's house . Philippe Noiret in the main role acts the role of Alexandre with an admirable easiness and naturalness . Because of its physical appearance and as he is inseparable from his dog Kaly , he is akin to Obélix with his tiny dog Idéfix . The rest of the cast follows him well and includes Pierre Richard and Jean Carmet . At the level of the quality in Robert's filmography , " Alexandre le Bienheureux " is just a few notches below Robert's flicks I previously mentioned . It's the kind of movie to full savor after a hard day's work or after a Jean Luc Godard intellectual movie . Given that it is difficult to find in DVD , it deserves to be restored in favor and considering all the favors did by Kaly to his master , Robert's movie perfectly illustrates the famous maxim : " man's best friend is the dog " .
Girls school	The last good adaptation of a Stanislas Andre Steeman novel ( " 18 Fantômes " ) for the screen , ( Clouzot's ones were the best : " Quai Des Orfèvres " " L'Assassin Habite Au 21 " ) , " Dortoir des Grandes " ( = - big - girls dormitory ) remains one of Henry Decoin's best movies in the fifties . The director is at ease with a detective story which includes film noir touches and a lot of good humor . Jean Marais portrays a very handsome cop who investigates in a girls school where a murder was committed ( one of the students ) . A bevy of gorgeous young girls makes his work worthwhile , but they are not paragons of virtue , as the straight headmistress ( a wonderful Denise Grey ) thinks they are . Don't they dress up as ghosts at night to scare the supervisor ? And one of their pastimes the " tied - up " game - one of the girl learned in England , in France we do not do such things of course ! - consists of tying a girl to her bed : if she can free herself during the night , she wins ! And what about the victim ? Doesn't she own a movie-camera ? And if she films the turkey waddling on the yard , she has also immortalized very bad things which happen behind the teachers ' back . A gallery of weirdos have detailed portraits in " Dortoir Des Grandes " : a female maths teacher who seems to be fond of girls ( she says : " I couldn't kill her ! I wouldn't destroy beauty " ) , a supervisor who's afraid of everything , a headmistress overtaken by events ; and in the village , a photograph ( Louis de Funès ! ) who likes to take photographs of the young ladies in swimsuit till something better comes along . . . Jeanne Moreau as a servant who is asked by the cop to spy on the victim's soon-to-be stepfather ( this charming man has already tried to rape his stepdaughter ) . This is an exciting thriller , which displays a lot of dynamism , with an excellent final scene which will remind old viewers of prize giving day . Like this ? try these . . . . " Les Disparus de Saint Agil " Christian - Jaque 1938 " Le Visiteur " Jean Dreville 1946
taste of Yvonne	Adaptation of a novel by Patrick Modiano , " le parfum d'Yvonne " represents another Patrice Leconte's success . To make this film , the director drew from several elements dating from his previous movies . Thus , the doctor Meinthe ( excellent Jean-Pierre Marielle ) is very close to Michel Mortez in " Tandem " ( 1987 ) while Yvonne's sensual beauty evokes Mathilde's in " the hairdresser's wife " ( 1990 ) . So , Leconte turned a novel into a personal movie . This movie tells a past love story that brings on a deep nostalgia due to gorgeous summer pictures enhanced by a luminous photography . It's almost a poetic and dreamlike work . And however , this happiness is too good to be true . Indeed , behind this idle and free life , hide zones of shadows . Victor Chmara claims to Yvonne that he is a wealthy Russian earl but he's nothing of the sort . He's just a young man who fled Paris so as to avoid his military enlistment ( we are in 1958 and at this time , it is the Algerian war ) . Moreover , he wants to go to the USA but Yvonne refuses because Victor can't speak English . So , she leaves him and there's this famous sentence that says : love stories , in general don't have a happy ending . It is true . Leconte built his movie on a long flashback and he alternates the story with two of the main characters ' current situation . From this moment , we can take down a strong contrast between the shiny pictures of a celebrated and distant summer and the dark photography to connote a dull present that shows the main characters ' distress and bitterness ( especially the doctor Meinthe ) . A beautiful and bitter movie . If you are a fan of Patrice Leconte , don't miss this one .
. . . and a hutch full of rabbits	" Of mice and men " is one of these movies we definitely need in our times . Gary Sinise ' s directing is classic in the noblest sense of the term . The cinematography recalls some of those Ford ( who adapted " Grapes of wrath " , another Steinbeck's novel for the screen ) gems of the forties or fifties . It is heart-rending to see Malkovich and his portrayal of the half-wit is one of the finest you can see in a nineties movies and leaves , for instance Dustin Hoffman's " rain man " character far behind . It takes a lot of guts to play such demeaning parts ! Gary Sinise should not be forgotten either , in a performance which offers all the subtleties of the heart . What moves me in the movie is the loneliness which frightens the characters . Everyone is searching for someone to rely on . Not only the two heroes ( I think that , actually , George needs more Lennie than the other way about ) but also the old man - the scene with the old dog is almost unbearable ; it will have an equivalent in a terrifying way at the end recalling Horace MacCoy's " they shoot horses don't they ? " - Curley's wife ; only the black guy has resigned himself to solitude . The scene when Candy and the two pals are talking of their future house - which we know from the very start they'll never have - is really heartwarming . At least , for one precious and fleeting moment , they could dream of a home , a fireplace and a hutch full of rabbits .
Childhood nostalgia .	Almost three decades later , Yves Robert comes back to what he does best : childhood movies . " La guerre des boutons " ( 1962 ) was the first work featuring almost only brats . It was a timeless blockbuster in France and an ( English or Irish ) remake was made a few years ago . Yves Robert tackles here Pagnol ' s autobiographical books and transfers them to the screen with taste , humor and magic . Magic is everywhere as Robert perfectly recreates those little simple pleasures of long ago . " Le château de ma mère " is the follow-up to " La gloire de mon père " . Both movies are likable , Robert showing tenderness for his characters : The enthusiastic atheist father ( Philippe Caubère ) , the mother everybody would like to have ( Nathalie Roussel ) , their two children , Marcel - who would become the great director and writer - and his brother " petit Paul " , the Christian uncle Jules who prays for his heathen brother-in-law , and plays the occasional Father Christmas . A lot of colorful secondary characters add to the enchantment : Lili , the little boy of the garrigue , a girlie , some kind of stuck-up thing , a noble who's a true gentleman , a wicked warden ( One of Jean Carmet's last parts ) who's got instructions by way of heart . The main difference between " le château de ma mère " and the first part " la gloire de mon père " lies in the fact that the former opens the gates of life ( not only the gates the father illegally opens ) . The conclusion is very harsh , but Robert avoids pathos and melodrama . It does not prevent us , though , after three hours ( the two movies together ) in these green pastures of childhood paradise , from getting a bitter taste in the mouth . Robert knows it : so he ends his work with a wonderful epilogue ( faithful to the book ) which thoroughly justifies the title . And the audience will leave the Provence , while thinking that here or elsewhere , dreams may come true . As Pagnol wrote at the end of his book : " life is made of small pleasures and big grieves : don't you tell it to the children "
Dreyeresque Delannoy	My title will enrage the highbrows , but , after reading the notorious " Cahiers du Cinema " who on earth ( and particularly in France ) is going to watch a Jean Delannoy film , cause it's " inevitably bad " cause Godard and co have decided it is so ? " La Symphonie Pastorale " is a marvelous black and white movie . A simple story of a minister who takes on a little savage girl , Gertrude ( a Dreyeresque name ! ) . For a short while , it's got something of Helen Keller , cause the heroine is blind when the story begins . But Delannoy focuses on the relationship between the man who's got four children and his protégée . Pierre Blanchar ( it's probably his best part ) and Michèle Morgan are at the top of their game and they give subtle performances . When the elder son ( Jean Desailly ) comes back , and falls in love with Gertrude , the tragedy is in the air . The priest realizes he loves the girl in a way a father should not . Delannoy takes advantage of the snowy landscapes and the frozen rivers , of the tiny church where the organ becomes a mediator between Gertrude and the young man , of an excellent cast . He has even got a sense of humor ! There's a private joke . When they show Desailly the organ , one of the men says " Amour , Delices et Orgues ! " which was the title of a ( very mediocre ) previous film in which the actor was featured the same year .
A great movie a decade !	George Lautner , a very prolific director has produced mediocre films by the dozen . And however , there are three works , in his monumental filmography , which indicates that he could have been so much more . In 1963 , " le septième juré " a film noir which is on a par with the best Clouzot and Duvivier . In 1970 , " la route de Salina " , a weird story of madness , one of Rita Hayworth ' s last parts . In 1988 , this " maison assassinée " which ranks among the best French films of the decade . It remained ignored I hope that some day people will give it the place it deserves . " La maison assassinée " came aside as a shock in the eighties : they did not make movies like this one any longer . It is return to the nineties melodrama - because we're closer to black melo than to thriller - which was thriving at the turn of the century with Xavier de Montépin ( " la porteuse de pain " ) or Adolphe D'Ennery ( " les deux orphelines " which became Griffith's " orphans in the storm " ) . But inside melodramatic elements , we ' ve got to notice the strong presence of the murder mystery à la Maurice Leblanc ( and his hero Arsène Lupin ) . And this kind of rural detective melodrama , this is what Jacques Becker ( his masterpiece " Goupi Mains Rouges " ) or Christian-Jacques ( " l'assassinat du père noël " did in their time , but it was forty years before Lautner . Jean Becker , ( Jacques's son ) tackled the genre but his movie ( " l'été meurtrier " , 1982 ) suffered from a weak screenplay . " La maison assassinée can boast a very strong screenplay . Adapted from a contemporary writer , the story will grab you till the end . So much for the prelims : in the darkest night , a man asks for refuge in a remote house ; outside three masked men are waiting : are they murderers ? A whole family is slain , and the only survivor ( Bruel ) , twenty years later , comes back from WW1 , to be confronted with the inhabitants of the village's hostility : they say he brings bad luck . He becomes an outcast . But he won't give up : he wants to know what happened to his parents and to avenge them . The post-WW1 atmosphere is wonderfully recreated with his women left alone during the war , its draft dodgers who used to work behind a desk ( the judge in the scene with Yann Colette , who was disfigured ) , its girls in search of a husband , because of the dearth of young men . THere's everything in this far-fetched by absorbing story : bewitchment complete with needles and dolls , a castle with ferocious dogs , an old woman who resembles a witch ( a remarkable Maria Meriko ) , and strange death that happens without the hero's intervention . Who is working behind the scenes ? Everything revolves around the number three : three masked marauders , three letters , three girls who moves around the hero , three places ( the village , the doomed house and the castle ) . . This movie was far from the routine of the dull French cinema from the eighties . Add a marvelous cinematography which enhances the splendid rural landscapes and you wonder why Georges Lautner did not make more movies like this one .
A true man shows	This is among Pete Weir's best , just a notch or two under " fearless " or " witness " and much more worthwhile than weepies like " dead poets society " . Jim Carrey is , relatively speaking , sparing of gestures and , hem ! grimaces . However , in my humble opinion , the best performance comes from Laura Linney , who's very funny , delivering lines as she would do commercials , and always with that suave smile on her face : she really acts as if she's in a play , and she ' s anyway , as Paul Mac Cartney sang in " Penny Lane " . Ed Harris is effective as a sort of God ( TV has replaced God in many a home , like it or not ) , his spectacles and his bonnet make him almost unrecognizable . The humanism displayed by Weir is very close to that of Frank Capra , and Jim Carrey is some kind of James Stewart of the nineties , naïve , with a big heart . And like Colombus ( his boat isn't it called " Santa Maria " ? ) , he has discovered a brand new world . Whether it's the best one remains to be seen .
Rumours	I have a tendency , unlike the other users , to like the remake best ( made by Wyler too ) . Probably because Lilian Hellman's play included hints at lesbianism , a subject which could not be treated in the thirties , when Wyler was one of the specialists of the female melodrama . That's why I think that the 1963 movie was more exciting , and still is , still in 2007 . I'm not sure that all the parents would accept a gay teacher , but a ménage à trois has lost its scandalous side . However " these three " is another Wyler's must , well acted by Merle Oberon , Joel McCrea and Miriam Hopkins , the latter being my favorite . Wyler is a master when it comes to tell a story . His depiction of the tiny school , of the manor are lovely . Maybe the horrid child overplays a bit - she is more convincing in the remake - but her young pal , being blackmailed and afraid of being sent to a reform school , is a good young actress . The scene when the two women meet McCrea for the first time is charming .
Make way for tomorrow . . . . .	Comencini was some kind of Italian equivalent of American Frank Borzague . Like him , he displayed a humanism which was ( and still is ) rare . He had often tackled the children's condition with admirable works such as " incompreso " " Pinocchio " or " Cuore " . Here he broached the old people's plight . The viewer will necessarily think of Leo McCarey's extremely moving " make way for tomorrow " the subject of which was similar : what shall we do with our folks when we , young ones , want to have fun and make the best of our life ? However , times are changing ; unlike the old 1938 couple , the 1989 characters don't agree to be victims : Comencini ' s work is a comedy , albeit a bitter one , whereas Leo McCarey's film did not leave any hope to the audience . . . Michel Serrault and Virna Lisa are wonderful .
Father Christmas is a piece of trash	Willie ( Billy Bob Thornton ) got a raw deal . He's a badly shaved , alcoholic human wreck . Every year , he re-enlists for a job as a Father Christmas in a mall he hates and burglarizes the place with the help of his tiny accomplish Marcus . But the landing of a waitress and especially a little boy who thinks he is the real Santa Claus will positively change his life although the progress will be slow . I remember when I went to see Etienne Chatiliez's latest offering , the underwhelming " la Confiance Règne " ( 2004 ) in the theaters , the trailer was announced and I figured : " it must be a vulgar comedy . I won't go and watch it " . I decided to give it a go a few days ago and I was pleasantly surprised . I haven't watched Terry Zwigoff's " Ghost World " ( 2001 ) but I was deeply amused with this trash comedy that John Waters would certainly have taken pleasure in directing it . If elegant films with refined cues are your bag , you'd rather not watch " Bad Santa " which will probably make you want to take to your heels . It's a delightfully politically incorrect film that damages the comforting image of famous Santa Claus and which doesn't shrink back before bad taste . Zwigoff shot a festival of filthy ( and sometimes witty ) cues and enormous gags . I dig his first meeting with the waitress when he reveals to her : " all I can do is eat , drink and have sex " , " prove it " she replies . I let you guess the next shot . However there's nothing gratuitous in this schoolboy perspective . The endless tests Willy went through in his lifetime made him heartless and installed him in a couldn't care less behavior . Remember the opening sequence when he exposes his woes . Because he thinks he has no place in a clean , smooth society , Willie rejects it and it's the opportunity for Zwigoff to dynamite this cozy world . But the pathetic , pitiful portrait Zwigoff makes of his hero doesn't exclude some tenderness and sympathy for him . There appears a quality from the director : amid a sea of crude dialogs , he manages to convey a good dose of emotion for this obnoxious character . One can skip the few weaknesses like some stereotyped characters and a few easy moments ( Willie has his lunchtime break , a mother and her little girl walk near him . " Oh ! Look darling . It's Santa Claus ! " Predictable reaction from Willie : " can I have my lunch time break ? " and hail Billy Bob Thornton who excels in a difficult role . Save it for Xmas and consider it as the polar opposite of Xmas movies brimming with joyful feelings .
Zinnemann's swansong is beautiful ! no , wonderful ! ! !	When the movie was released in the early eighties , it was difficult to realize that the man who made this gem is the same that , many years ago , had done " high noon " " act of violence " or " from here to eternity " . It was also hard to accept Connery in such an intimate , sensitive part . Zinnemann , who was - unfairly - criticized by European critics for being " academic " " Hollywoodian " directs here a true European movie , far from the fashions , as far from Hollywood artifacts as it can be . The equivalent of John Huston's last movie " the dead " , it's one of the most moving swansongs in the seventh art history . SPOILERS Sean Connery portrays a middle-aged man , who at first sight seems very nice , but he ' s got a wife who's much younger than him . . . Little by little , with flashbacks , we learn the truth : this young woman , Kate , is not his wife but his lover . But there's more . The center of gravity of the movie is the discovery of a body in the mountains . Ice has preserved the dead man's youth and the scene when his former love , a woman who seems older than the mountains , sees this fixed face is absolutely mind-boggling . One thinks of the sequences in Pomp��i in Rosselini's " Viaggio in Italia " This incident is not irrelevant : it reveals Connery character's harshness and selfishness when he says to the young guide ( Lambert Wilson ) that they're not in a hurry to bring back the body to the village . This is a movie with few dialogues , where looks are more important than words . The splendid cinematography enhances the mountains which will outlive everyone and make human feelings futile and fleeting . From here to eternity , they will stand , but as the guide tries to say to the heroine , life is too precious to be spoilt The ending is as stunning as Huston's " the dead " conclusion : Connery and Wilson set off to climb a dangerous mountain , one of them fall , but the camera only shows tiny figures in the landscape . Who's dead ? Kate ' s mad running across the snow , the white snow , will haunt you long after you ' ve seen the movie . Elmer Bernstein's music is an also asset and you will appreciate it till the final credits . Wonderful .
Fritz Lang's holiday homework part one .	Fritz Lang's last American work " beyond a reasonable doubt " was a commercial failure and it was panned at the time - nowadays , and mainly in Europe , critics are inclined to reverse their opinions . Actually " beyond a reasonable doubt " could easily be " remade " ( God preserve us ! ) today because its screenplay with the unexpected final twist is trendy . Afterward , Lang returned to Germany and began to film what was an old plan of his ( it was filmed , but by other directors ) , written by his ex-wife Thea Von Harbou . The gap between " Der Tiger von Eschnapur " and " beyond a reasonable doubt " ( and " human desire " " while the city sleeps " " clash by night " " the big heat " etc ) seems so wide that a lot of people did not recognize " their " Fritz Lang . One could answer them that , already in the mid-fifties , Lang had adapted for the screen " Moonfleet " , his first color experiment with startling results . And " Moonfleet " too did not seem to belong to Lang's canon . " Moonfleet " was a tour de force because it was a whole story seen through a child's eye . Something magic was born , and it's this magic we find again in " Der Tiger von Eschnapur " . " Der Tiger von Eschnapur " is a 4 million marks movie and the most accessible of all Lang's works : it can appeal to a child as much as to a professor . At first sight , it appears as an adventure yarn , close to comic strip , some kind of " Fritz Lang and the temple of doom " , but a director like him cannot be brought down to only that . " Der Tiger von Eschnapur " is a visual splendor , with an unusually inventive use of color , which is not unlike his British peer Michael Powell ( Black orchid , thief of Bagdad ) . Lang was an architect , and it's impossible not to feel it , here more than in his entire American period . It's no coincidence if his hero ( Henri Mercier / Harald Berger ) is an architect too ; they are always holding and studying plans . Lang's camera perfectly captures the space it describes . Mercier ( Paul Hubschmid ) is often filmed in high angle shot , in the huge palace of the Maharajah , in the tiger pit , or later , in the second part , in the dungeon where he's imprisoned . Actually , and it's obvious , it takes us back to Lang's German silent era , particularly " der müde Tod " " die Niebelungen " and " Metropolis " . " Der Tiger von Eschnapur " is essentially a movie of exposition : some scenes which seem overlong ( Paget's dance ) , irrelevant ( the lepers ) are actually necessary to prepare the stage for part two . And this leads us to one of Lang's permanent features : the coexistence of two worlds . Behind the lavishly furnished palace , the sumptuous clothes , the sparkling jewels , there's another world beneath . The scene when Mercier meets the lepers scrawling on the ground , and in a simpler but no less harrowing , Baharani's blood seeping out of the basket are hints at a darker side of the luminous magic world of Chandra . There's a lot to say about " der Tiger von Eschapur " : the flight through the desert recalls sometimes Henri - Georges Clouzot's " Manon " ( 1949 ) , as Mercier's madness breaks out and he begins to fire at the sun . " Der Tiger von Eschnapur " is a must .
a local hero in a happy place	A big American petrochemical company contemplates the construction of a oil refinery in a Scottish isolated fishing village . A young executive ( Peter Riegert ) from the Texas is sent there and with the Scottish representative of the company tries to negotiate with the local authorities to buy the ground . But things don't go exactly as planned . Indeed , the two men are more and more seduced by the easy life that reigns in the village while the inhabitants are tempted by the company's initial plan in order to grow rich . Then , the manager of the firm ( Burt Lancaster ) arrives in the village to settle the question with surprising results . Bill Forsyth made an ecological tale full of charm and sensibility . He enjoys describing with a discreet and subtle humor the daily life of this Scottish village which seems to be virtually cut off from the outside world . Like the main protagonist , relaxed way of life that reigns in this fishing village gradually overcomes us . But we can also understand Forsyth's work as an invitation to the pleasure of the senses . Indeed , Riegert enjoys the food he eats and the whisky he drinks ; he is charmed by the beauty of the landscapes and what he finds by the seaside ( his collection of shells ) and especially the rare phenomenon of the northern lights . Ultimately , his stay will do him good since he'll fully become integrated with the inhabitants . There's a small detail that says a lot about it : Riegert will put in his cupboard his American suit to wear instead a sweater . Bill Forsyth has also written the screenplay and the merits we ca attribute to it is to have avoided the traps the topic was tending : a rejection of Manicheism and the characters globally escape caricature . The character acted by Burt Lancaster is more passionated by astronomy than his firm and the power of money . " Local Hero " is a breath of fresh air and just like Peter Riegert , we would like to prolong our stay in this Scottish fishing village far from the stress of modern life , far from the Hollywood imperialism .
Agnes Moorehead steals the show !	Even if she has only two or three scenes she steals them all . And it speaks volumes when the stars are Bogart and Bacall . This is my favorite B / B among the four films they made together . " The big sleep " has a plot I've never understood - Hawks used to say it was the same to him - , " to have and to have not " fails to excite me ( Bogart a resistant and Gaulliste at that ! " Key Largo " , on the other hand , is a close second to Daves ' movie . Not that the subjective viewpoint / camera was that much new . Robert Montgomery filmed his hero the same way in 1946 ( " Lady in the lake " , and we only saw his reflection in the mirrors ) . Hitchcock knew the technique as well and he used it with virtuosity during short sequences . But Daves who is best remembered for his westerns ( " broken arrow " ) pulls it off effortlessly . The depth of field gives a dreamlike atmosphere to the first sequences with Bacall and the surgeon - dream which becomes nightmare during the operation when Bogart sees in his bad dream all the characters involved in the story - There are plot holes of course , particularly Madge ' s character . Parry is in Irene's house and presto here she comes . It takes all Agnes Moorehead's talent to give this woman substance . The first third is Bogartless , as an user points out . But he could add that the last third is almost Bacallless too . Only the ending , which I will not reveal of course , is not worthy of a film noir ! Maybe the producers imposed it .
Jump door	An excellent film noir , extremely well acted by Bogart and Lizabeth Scott who more than makes up for the absence of Lauren Bacall . When the film comes to an end , we still do not know if she is a femme fatale or a victim , a calculator or a puppet in the hands of her former husband . It begins with a long flashback which occupies two thirds of the story . The best scene is for me the last one : Scott is dying , and Bogart uses an extraordinary metaphor to comfort her : " there will be plenty of company down there " . It may be the most beautiful death scene in the film noir genre . And it links the past ( the war ) and the present ( another " war " no less deadly ) . The film contains a lot of memorable scenes : the young officer , standing on his runaway train , waving his hand to his old pal ( " seems like a farewell " ) ; Scott's song in Martinelli's shady nightclub ; Scott and Bogart , driving away from the city and the man telling his mate he's rather have her in his pocket ( Scott will tell him later : " If only I could get into your pocket " ) ; the room where Bogart is assaulted and when he smells jasmine , the lady's scent ; Martinelli's henchman's sadism . Plenty of good lines : " I love you , but I love him more " . Should not be missed by films noirs buffs .
Quintet	" Lumière d'Ete " is probably Grémillon's most ambitious work . Made during the Occupation days , many people consider it his best . One should add it's also his less accessible . Although it's a Prévert / Laroche screenplay , the main influence here is Renoir's . All that concerns Paul Bernard's character and his fete in the castle strongly recalls " La Règle du Jeu " . Probably the center of gravity of the movie , this memorable sequence of the farandole - while the tragedy is impending - will find an equivalent in Prévert / Carné's ending of " Les Enfants Du Paradis " . There are only five characters : three men and two women . Cri-Cri ( Madeleine Renaud , Grémillon's favorite actress ) , her lover Patrice and a failed painter ( Pierre Brasseur ) represent the bourgeois society . Michèle ( Madeleine Robinson ) and Julien ( Georges Marchal ) are the working class heroes . The latter thoroughly deserves this name , in every sense of the term . Patrice is a perverse man with a racy - and even criminal - past who does not love Cri-Cri anymore : did he ever love her anyway ? or was he just pretending because she knew too many bad things about him ? A man of leisure , he invites Roland ( the artist ) in his castle just because he desires his partner Michele . In direct contrast to that , we have the working men : they are building a dam and they are useful . And they are here when it comes to lend a helping hand . There's a good use of the " play in the play " trick ; During the costume ball , Roland is disguised as Hamlet , which makes sense . Outside Shakespeare , Laroche and Prevert hint at French writer Comtesse de Ségur , since Cri-Cri's hotel is called " L'Ange Gardien " ( The guardian angel ) and one of the guests thinks of dressing up as General Dourakine . With all its qualities , " Lumière d'Eté " is less appealing than " Pattes Blanches " where Paul Bernard plays a squire again : the first third of the 1943 work drags on a bit and may put off some viewers . Nonetheless , it is essential viewing for anyone interested in the French cinema .
That horrid child . . . .	. . . an user mentions in his comment did exist . If you do not believe it , you probably never worked in a school . A child like that , I met one three or four years ago . The French title is " la rumeur " ( the rumor ) , and more than the right to be different , the main subject of " children's hour " ( check the title ) is slander which can destroy lives . Wyler's movie gains , in spite of its dated side , an universal meaning because slander can be about anything and can lead anybody to humiliation , despair even death . And even in 2005 , are all the parents prepared to accept a gay or a lesbian teacher for their child ? Wyler was not happy with the first version ( these three ) which avoided the gay side . In 1961 , it was a very courageous move to deal with a scandalous situation . The young audience will probably find it hard to understand what all the screaming was about . They have got to remember that the Production Code Administration Office ( PCA ) only began to change in 1958 . " The PCA finally altered its attitude toward " sexual perversion " ( sic ) - despite controversies over films like " suddenly last Summer " - when such major studio movies as " the children's hour " and " advise and consent " dealt with the subject . " But it was 1966 before the code was revised , this time drastically . Excellent performances by the two leads , extremely moving , fine support by James Garner and Miriam Hopkins . Shirley McLaine is to be praised because she has the hardest part . Her evolution makes sense . What about the ending ? Lilian Hellmann took the easy way out . But once again , it was 1961 . Mark Rydell , in 1968 , when the code had been revised , did not improve on the ending with his own " the fox " . Neither did Claude Chabrol with " les biches " . With his legendary depth of field , Wyler lightens what could have been a filmed stage protection . He places his characters in their space as a chess player ( see the last scenes between the two women and the doctor ; also the scenes with the old lady and the girls ) . Spoiler : Wyler refused to sweeten the final . Whereas today's cinema would have reunited Hepburn and Garner hugging and kissing with a full choir and orchestra behind , he opts for an open ending . as an user already noticed , everything is possible . . . William Wyler was never the academic director the French " cahiers du cinema " and the Godard clique used to spit at . He took more chances than they did . And it was not over . " The collector " , the follow-up , four years later , tackled the real sexual perversion ( The two heroines are normal for today's audience , and they were forty years ago as well ) and was definitely ahead of its time . Vive William Wyler !
The dummy and I	I saw " Magic " when it was theatrically released in 1978 , and I thought " average stuff " . I saw it today and I thought : " I was wrong ; this is well above average " . The fantasy and horror movie was a dominant genre in the seventies and Attenborough's sober style passed for lifelessness and his movie met mixed critical and commercial reception . It has worn remarkably well , and the many reviews it has received on the site show that the movie was underrated . Not that the subject was new : some may remember " dead of night " ( 1945 ) and its tremendous segment about the ventriloquist ( Michael Redgrave ) and his dummy , the highlight of an extraordinary film made of sketches . " Corky " is not a cardboard character : he has a background ; his life has been a tragic one ; as he says himself : " all I have is houses near decay and graves " ; he is a washout professionally and a sexually repressed man . He could never make his the girl he loved when he was in high school . She had to content herself with a crude less-than-handsome " Duke " . Anthony Hopkins ' performance compares favorably with those of " Hannibal " and the Ivory works . From the very start , we feel how irrational how disturbed this man is . All he does not dare to say , his dummy does ; it's some kind of doppelganger , like in Poe's " William Wilson " ( which Louis Malle filmed in " Histoires Extraordinaires " ( 1968 ) ) . In a lesser degree , Peg shows ambivalence too : staying with Duke and living on a bourgeois quiet life or following Corky into the unknown , the magic and childhood memories . When she makes up her mind , it will be too late . The movie is full of suspenseful moments : the scene of the cards , the " five minute test " , Duke's fishing rod and the omnipresence of the dummy , " watching " through the window as Corky is taking a dead body to the lake , or jealous " peeping tom " when his " master " and Peg make love . Humor is present too : " that's what you call : to kill two birds with one stone " . There is a lot of things to say about " Magic " : towards the end , Hopkins and the dummy are wearing the same clothes , and the last lines are almost the same as Edgar Poe's " William Wilson " ( " Us , it's you " )
knockin ' on Hell's door ( Nick's movie )	This is the first movie which is Rayesque to the core . One of his most obvious permanent feature really appears for the first time : the search for a father . The relationship Bogart / Derek is intense ( after the death of the biological one ) and predates those of " Run for cover " ( John Derek again playing opposite Cagney ) and " Rebel without a cause " ( Remember Plato to Jim and Judy : " I wish you could be my parents " ) But I could also mention the Mitchum / Kennedy relationship in " lusty men " or even Heston and the Chinese girl in " 55 days at Peking " . Or James Mason and his ( biological this time ) in " bigger than life " . Emma's character predates The Rayesque young girl , the one you meet again in " they live by night " ( note how Allene Roberts resembles Cathy O'Donnell ) . Allene Roberts ' beaming face and her hope against hope are the only ray of light in a dark tragical story . Like Fritz Lang , Nicholas Ray put the blame on the society . Nick was born under a bad sign , like many of the director's heroes . John Derek gives an intense performance climaxing in the scene in the court when his wife's suicide is revealed . Bogart shines as his lawyer ( he's more convincing in this kind of part than he was in " marked woman " ) . Excellent screenplay with a superb editing ; many contemporary movies ( such as the brilliant " Usual suspects " ) might have been influenced by the first scenes . Note that the story begins during the cast and credits , which shows that Ray , when he was on top of his game , did not know filler .
Ahead of its time	" Mystere Alexina " is a highly understated movie . Although it is a true story , the facts it depicts were risqué and its plea for the right to be different has a contemporary feel . René Féret's directing was certainly influenced by that of Robert Bresson , but he occasionally shows a certain warmth which the master never allows himself . Circa 1850 : Alexina who spent her youth in a completely female world ( a convent , then a training college ) becomes a schoolteacher in a small village . She feels she's different . She does not have her periods . Worse , she falls in love with her colleague ( a woman of course ) . Pretty soon , they become lovers , as Alexina feels more and more the man in her / him . But one of their pupils ( it recalls Wyler's " the children's hour " ; the difference is that here it is a true rumor ) reveals theirrelationship . Alexina loses her job and has a physical exam . It would seem that she is an hermaphrodite . There's the rub . The nineteenth century society is not prepared to accept such a " monster " . Victor , " the wild child " ( see Truffaut's movie ) was not dangerous for the society-he had appeared earlier in the century - because he was sexless and not really clever . Alexina wants to marry her / his lover . But the world in which she lives is still dominated by religion and puritanism . The biology lesson is revealing : when she tells her pupils about the frog reproduction , Alexina does not mention that the male inseminates the eggs ( and however it happens in the water ) . An impressive scene shows Alexina driven out of the confessional by the priest after she's told him the " truth " . Philippe Vuillemin gives a cesar-caliber performance . He is absolutely mind-boggling : even more credible as a woman ! Give this movie a chance ! It deserves it !
a cursed abbey in the mountains . . .	Jean Jacques Annaud is a film-maker with a daring character . After he shot this medieval thriller and among the plans he made , he made " the Bear " ( 1988 ) with wild animals as stars and he got down to adapt the Marguerite Duras ' novel " the Lover " in 1992 and however , Duras ' works are difficult to adapt for the screen . No , back in 1986 , to adapt Umberto Eco's voluminous book was no small matter . On top of the detective plot , the work comported a theological reflection and a philosophical richness . They could be sufficient enough to lead the viewer astray . Jean Jacques Annaud seemed very aware of it . That's why he preferred to erase the quoted topics for an investigation à la Conan Doyle with a passionating enigma which is arguably more accessible in the spectator's eyes . Like Christian Slater and to reassure oneself , we rely on Sean Connery's wisdom and insight because we move in an isolated and mysterious place where lives a gallery of disturbing religious characters . The whole is scattered with beautiful pictures and a certain humor adds to the interest of the film . The director also found place to denounce the Inquisition with its unfair methods . Umberto Eco may have judged the adaptation of his novel as too simplistic but the public gave it an ovation in 1987 . If you are interested in Annaud's cinema , don't miss this movie .
Chabrol puts on his Chabrol mask .	The eighties were not that much a great time for Claude Chabrol . Most of the works of this era , either have not worn very well ( les fantômes du chapelier , poulet au vinaigre ) or were not themes for him anyway ( le cheval d'orgueil , Patricia Highsmith's " le cri du hibou " ) " Masques " is probably his best since " Violette Nozières " ( 1978 ) and nearly matches the brilliance of the late sixties / early seventies heyday . Completely unpretentious , it's full of humor , suspense and of course gastronomy ( is there a Chabrol movie where they do not eat ? ) . A marvelous spoof on these numerous TV shows which take dumbness to new limits , a detective story , this movie is much fun to watch . Philippe Noiret , overplaying as hell - and he's thoroughly enjoyable - , plays the emcee of a broadcast for old people who sing songs of long ago , ( " les roses blanches " , the most maudlin song of the whole French repertoire , crooned by an old man , can be heard on the cast and credits ) . By no means a caricature , because , we've seen worse on French TV . And to crown it all , the host uses " HItchcock presents " music to enhance his horrible show . And that's not all ! Philippe Noiret's character is Mister LEGAGNEUR ( GO-GETTER ) The emcee is so full of himself he asks a young novelist ( Renucci ) to write his biography . They are to work in the country in Legagneur's desirable property , complete with court and chef . A delightful gallery of weirdoes hangs around : A couple , Roger Dumas , a wine connaisseur , and Bernadette Laffont , who enjoys reading someone's cards and less commendable things - to think that Laffont was featured in Chabrol's very first , " le beau Serge " , in 1958 ! - ; a deaf and dumb chauffeur ; two strange servants , one of them relishes with Charlotte Armstrong's detective stories-like Chabrol , who adapted this writer twice : " la rupture " ( 1970 ) and " merci pour le chocolat " ( 2000 ) - ; and , last but not least , a strange girl ( Brochet ) , Legagneur's goddaughter ( sic ) . She seems very sick , or maybe someone helps her to be sick ? Actually nothing is what it seems . Everybody hides himself behind his mask , including the director , who puts on his Chabrol mask this time .
an initiation to life	One of the biggest French success of the year 2002 , " l'auberge espagnole " was also very well greeted abroad which is quite extraordinary for a French film . It is not difficult to define the reasons of this success . This movie made by one of the most interesting French film-makers of these last years , Cédric Klapisch , presents students coming from all over Europe and gathered all together under the same roof in Barcelona . These students are described like the ones you imagine or you see in everyday life : either untidy , either serious or with a sense of humor . I guess that if the movie worked so well , it is because a lot of students must have recognized themselves in the main characters ' portraits and especially Xavier's . We follow the movie and so his experience abroad as an Erasmus student through his eyes . Xavier is really an ordinary student with his qualities , his faults . An intelligent making with quite a lot of ingenious ideas perfectly expresses his lost mind and his anxiety about the world and being an Erasmus student . On that subject , the best examples can be found in two sequences . The first one is when Xavier asks a woman at university for the papers he has to send to prepare his DEA . When the same woman informs him about the different necessary procedures , all the papers appear on the screen when she is naming them ! In the next sequence , Xavier's voice-over confides to the spectator his vision of the modern world . Now , where to find the second example ? Well , the scene where Xavier has a thorough medical examination during which Klapisch films his visions is widely sufficient to speak of itself . Moreover , the director wasn't really interested by his main character's studies . He left this point low-key . He rather put a lot of effort into Xavier's private life , of course , in his love affair with Anne Sophie but also and especially in his relations with his fellow tenants . It is a real friendship story that Klapisch shows us with its moments of happiness but also its arguments and its tensions . Through Xavier's adventure and at the end of his stay , he will have been initiated into life which will make him more mature . The message that the author wanted to transmit isn't difficult to guess . You naively believe that you live in an untidy and complicated world . You mustn't give up but intensively search to get what you want even if it is difficult . Apart from this , we could also fear that with the topic , Cédric Klapisch wouldn't avoid a trap : the clichés . Let's be frank about it : they are included in the screenplay but the director does his best not to spread them too much in his movie . Then , the screenplay contains convenient and predictable moments : at the airport and before boarding we see Xavier shedding a tear after he left his family . But fortunately the shortcomings of the script stop here . Quite funny dialogs and cool young actors perfectly at ease in their roles make up the whole . In spite of its weaknesses , " l'auberge espagnole " is to be taken for a success in the movie of young people . Besides , the whole atmosphere it brings out lets us think that this movie is directed primarily to a young audience . Ultimately , the end of the movie and its big success let us suggest that Klapisch succumbed to a fashion that goes right for American cinema : the elaboration of sequels . And indeed , the film-maker currently works on a sequel entitled " les poupées russes " . Let's hope that it will be as good as " l'auberge espagnole " .
And when the night is cloudy . . . .	Gabin won the Volpi Cup at the Venice film festival and he thoroughly deserved it . " La Nuit est mon Royaume " , in spite of occasional snatches of melodrama , is a strong film about blind people . The title tells the whole story : the night is my kingdom ( and not my hell ) . In the film , all the blind people lead a normal life , they work , they love , they suffer , but above all , they do not want any pity . That was Raymond's family's first mistake : after an accident which made him a blind man , the hero is treated like a child . " He's going to break my glasses ! " mama says " You should eat more . Do you want me to cut your meat ? " . But fortunately , a nun comes to his rescue . She works in a center where blind people learn to read with the Braille alphabet , but , as the sister tells Raymond , they learn any job they like : cabinet-makers , mechanics , cooks , etc . She will play for Raymond the role Annie Sullivan played for Helen Keller . And there's another light that shines on Raymond : in the center , there's a blind schoolteacher he falls in love with . But she's the head's fiancée . This rivalry is perhaps the weakness of the film , but it does produce a marvelous scene : Raymond and the girl are walking though the wood and he confides in her ; the jealous suitor is here but of course they cannot see him . Georges Lacombe was a talented director with a good sense of mystery ( which surfaces in this film ) . He made the best of a good cast : Gabin , Simone Valère , Suzanne Dehelly , Gérard Oury - yes the director who hit the big time with his Bourvil / De Funès comedies - . His movie displayed humanism , close to that of Christian-Jaque and Jean-Paul Le Chanois : a splendid sequence shows a choir of blind people singing " Ce N'Est Qu'un Au Revoir " ( = " Should auld acquaintance be forgot ? ) . Charles Spaak ' s dialog , by and large , rings true . Like his colleague Henri Jeanson , he laughed at the Legion d'Honneur . After his pompous speech about Raymond's courage , the minister is in a hurry to leave , much to the hero's brother-in-law's disappointment , he who was counting on him to get a promotion in his bank .
Beate Klarsfeld : a heroine of our time .	Directed by Lindsay-Hog many users know as the man who directed the ill-fated ( but absorbing ) " let it be " starring the Beatles . Based on Beate Klarsfeld's true story , an admirable woman who discovered the horrors of the holocaust . A lawyer , but a non-Jew , abetted by her ( Jewish ) husband , she would dedicate her efforts to find the war criminals , which would lead to the arrest of Klaus Barbie . Some people complained because they cast Farah Fawcett , a sex symbol and an ex-Charlie's angel as the lead . But the actress displays determination and resilience . Her best scene is when she's alone on the streets in Brazil and tries to urge the people to help her catch a man " who killed women and children during WW2 " . An above average made-for-TV work . Its current rating of 7 , 3 is well deserved .
Who is crazy ?	" A woman under the influence " is , along with " a child is waiting " and maybe " husbands " John Cassavetes's most accessible work . Accessible , but not necessary palatable for everyone . Improvisation has a large part , the spaghetti scene was probably filmed like that , that's why Cassavetes has his own actors troup : here we find Gena Rowlands ( dazzling ) , Peter Falk ( a thousand miles away from Colombo ) and Cassavetes's own mother . One of the child is played by Matthew Laborteaux , who will be very popular as Albert in the " little house " series . Rowlands plays a very normal woman , living in a rather Italian macho world , where woman has got to content herself with cooking , gardening , and child care . But after a problem at her husband's work , everything seems to go wrong : Mabel's games with the children seem odd to her family circle , and , one night , she sleeps with the first to come . She's gone nuts , as her family thinks . After a psychiatric hospital stay , Mabel comes back , a new Mabel , all smiling . She seems to have changed , but her behavior is too contrived , too polite , without the spontaneity she had before , in a nutshell , her psyche is shot . After a suicide attempt , her husband understands that the true Mabel was the one before . Will they be able to pick up the pieces ? This is a very long movie ( 2 hours and a half ) with very long scenes that might bore some . Cassavetes is closer to European mood , that's why he ' s so revered here . You will be highly rewarded if you follow Mabel's rocky road in this man's man's man's world though .
So ahead of its time it remains indecipherable today .	This is HG Clouzot's most ambitious work , one of the most demanding and complex movie of a soon-to-be - nouvelle-vague France . Let's put it straight : although modern to a fault , " les espions " has nothing to do with the nouvelle vague : no " " free " camera here " , a bunch of " old actors " , a very elaborate screenplay . The problem is that it has nothing to do with the " old guard " either . The " story " flouts conventions , and HGC does not give a damn if his audience cannot catch up with it . The film was bound to be a commercial failure , particularly with an audience who got enthusiastic over " le salaire de la peur ' ( wages of fear ) and " les diaboliques " . The starting point may recall " the diaboliques " : in this latter work , a seedy boarding-school ; in " les espions " , a doctor short of the readies , whose clinic is sinking . So why not gladly agreeing a mysterious man's proposal ? One million francs , if he puts " them " up ? Who are " they " ? That's how the doctor's ( Gerard Sety ) nightmare begins . He is caught up in the system , and a lot of threatening characters ( played by topnotch international actors : Curd Jurgens , Martita Hunt , Sam Jaffe ) begin to show up : every time he thinks he begins to understand , the truth eludes him-Gérard Séty ' s character predates Laurence Harvey's in " the Mandchourian candidate " and even Michael Douglas's in " the game " . HGC watched the spies as if they were microbes under a microscope . It's a rather unpleasant view . Vera Clouzot-the unforgettable heroine of " les diaboliques " - appears in the role of a deaf and dumb neurotic woman ( She was to die of an heart attack three years later ) . Clouzot ' s health began to deteriorate during the sixties . After " les espions " he was to make only two works " la vérité " ( the truth ) one of Brigitte Bardot's best parts and " la prisonnière " . He made only 11 movies in all , which may not seem much , but most of them are among the best works French cinema has produced .
why so much fuss about this film ?	Hitler's last days in his underground bunker in Berlin in April 1945 and the fall of the Nazi Reich related from several standpoints including his secretary's . The Allies come on in leaps and bounds and are within an ace of the total victory but Hitler ( astounding Bruno Ganz ) is prisoner of his megalomaniac illusions and his absurd dreams of greatness . A strong division reigns in this underground world between the officers who know the nearly inevitable and adamant end and the ones who are still in prey to an unshakable fanaticism for their guru . Ultimately , endeavors of peace negotiations with the Allies will be begun by the most lucid officers while the most die-hard ones about the Nazi ideology will only see suicide as their last exit . . . This film shot by Oliver Hirschbegel deserves credit for having looked into a prickly era of history : the end of the Nazi regime led by a dictator who plunged the world into an unparalleled Barbary and violence and responsible of the most horrible human crimes . Derived from two books relating Hitler's last days in his bunker , it was supposed to be an accurate rendering of the facts for the sake of the detail and the historic reality . But inevitably , there are some liberties taken and certain sequences are pure fiction . For example , according to the historian Jean Tulard , Goebbels didn't fire at his wife before killing himself . They poisoned themselves . I also know very well that when the film reached the streets about two years ago , it gave rise to controversy and caused a lot of ink to flow . The mainspring : a more human face of the monster Hitler . But I think there is no real justification for this scandal in its major part . I didn't find that the depiction of Hitler in this " Untergang " introduced a more enticing face except maybe in some intimate sequences with some women . On the contrary , the Hitler represented in this " Untergang " is a mercurial , formidable monster who wildly oscillates between rare moments of short lucidity and tantrums , especially when his officers come to announce him that the Allies gain ground and the German army has to draw back . It was a good idea from the director to have often favored the off-camera during these incommoding moments . The camera goes in a next room , generally full of people and one can still hear the dictator's screams . By stubbornly striving to repel the Allies armies with restrained military means , he's like he's beating a dead horse . He also only displays contempt for the German people and holds inhuman facts about the Jewish people . He's a man who firmly believes ( or does he ? ) that the Nazi Reich can go on . One of the most conspicuous sequences show him in front of a model of the architectural Berlin he wants to build in the future . In short , " der Untergang " introduced Hitler as I had imagined him , nearly exempted of a human face . What remains is an absorbing assessment of a decaying world between the officers who know the impending end of the Nazi reign and have to endure Hitler's absurd intentions and his most staunch devotees which include quite a lot of women who keep on pandering to him . And many of them are ready to commit suicide not to see the end of the Nazi Reich like Goebbels , a narrow-minded man and his wife who is ready to poison her own children . There's a grisly scene which packs a real wallop . But chaos also reigns in this bunker . Some of the members absconded while others party to vainly forget the end . Dancing on a volcano indeed . But disorder also reigns in the devastated streets of Berlin . In the meantime , the apocalyptic shots of Berlin reminded me of Warsaw's in Roman Polanski's admirable " the Pianist " ( 2002 ) . See the scene when a more than middle-aged man strives to make a bunch of teenagers realize that by trying to repel a platoon of Sovietic soldiers , they won't be able to hold on very long . But there's a young boy who will manage to repel two tanks ans will be rewarded by the " Führer " . Then , the Bunker has a lot of dour corridors . They could be the symbols of the confused spirit of the Nazi members and the fact that all these people belong to an underground bunker could be interpreted as a faded microcosm of a regime condemned to disappear . Bruno Ganz's composition is mind-boggling . It seems that it was a tailor-made part for him . He seems to have studied in detail Hitler's persona and he delivered an Oscar-caliber performance which could be worth alone the price of admission . But the film is also buoyed by a topnotch cast in general . Each actor makes his part count . The persona of each protagonist fits them like a glove . I must confess that I was very taken with this film and if one leaves aside the liberties taken in comparison with the historic reality , " der Untergang " is a gripping film . Its very high stance in the top 250 of this site is certainly too much but it's worth a watch all the same . When the film is over one can only hope this : that such a megalomaniac and dangerous man can never come to power again .
The final thrust .	HG Clouzot whose best works ( " diabolique " " salaire de la peur " " le corbeau " and " quai des orfèvres " ) rank among the best French works of all time , had health problems after " la vérité " ( 1960 ) . Thus the eight - year gap , between that latter movie and his final opus " la prisonnière " . Between , there was another film " l'enfer " , starring Romy Schneider and Samy Frey but it was never finished . Claude Chabrol would take on the screenplay about thirty years later with Emmanuelle Béart and François Cluzet with startling results . In fact Claude Chabrol is HGC's closest relative . No matter if Chabrol sprang from the nouvelle vague and Clouzot was part of their " enemies " : Chabrol was ( and is ) closer to Clouzot than any other new wave directors , be it Truffaut or Godard . Were " la prisonnière " labelled a Chabrol's film , it would not enjoy , so to speak , such a low rating . " La prisonnière " is HGC's only color film and it remains a disturbing intriguing work . In " quai des orfèvres " , a lipstick lesbian was taking photographs of models , and thus sublimated what she probably thought was a sin ( it was 1947 ! ) . In " la prisonnière " a young man ( Laurent Terzieff a very earnest thespian ) takes photographs of humiliated women . A young bourgeois girl ( Wiener ) married with a straight-in every senses of the term - husband ( Bernard Fresson ) discovers his secret by chance , and wants to take a walk on the wild side . She won't escaped unharmed . Like Catherine Deneuve in Bunuel's " Belle de Jour " she is at the mercy of her fantasies : but whereas Severine , Bunuel's heroine , lived in a fantsy world , Josée , HGC's girl , works as a TV editor and the films about which she works deal with women's sex and violence problems . Although dated , but not more than Bowman's final journey in " 2001 " , the psychedelic effects are used masterfully . Although by no means a " nouvelle vaguesque " director , HGC experiments here and the heroine's dream in the hospital is still impressive today . " Everyone's a peeping tom " the young man says , " some pose , the others buy the photographs " . Clouzot's misanthropy persisted till his last breath .
Do not break the spell .	Splellbinding , fascinating film , in a wintry snowy atmosphere which Christian-Jaque's camera perfectly captures . Wonderful pictures : the dead body in the snow raising a hand ; the dark horse , galloping in the mountains , as if this animal were demanding justice for his murdered master ; the fete , with the dance complete with quaint instruments . . . The whole movie is a feast for the eye . The soundtrack essentially consists of the old French folk song " Aux Marches du Palais " ( which Serge Bourguignon would use again in " Cybèle Et Les Dimanches de Ville D'Avray " aka " Sundays and Cybèle " ) which is played again and again , and even sung in full by Renée Faure . If the film is visually a splendor , I do not think that Prévert's screenplay is perfect . It sometimes drags on and the first dialog between Ledoux and Coedel is rather talky ; so is Pigaut's and Faure's interminable love scene . Renée Faure is not attractive enough to portray a romantic peasant girl successfully . She is overshadowed , every step of the way , by sensational Madeleine Robinson , one of the greatest actresses France has ever had . Robinson and Pigaut had already teamed up in Claude Autant-Lara's classic " Douce " ( 1942 ) and the scenes where they are together ( particularly the ball ) takes the film out on a level of stratospheric intensity that simply rises above the rest and makes theFaure / Pigaut scenes bland by comparison . Like this ? Try these : " Goupi Mains Rouges " Jacques Becker 1943 " L'Assassinat du Père Noel " Christian - Jaque 1941 " Barry " Richard Pottier 1949
The bell clapper .	It was the second time Bunuel had directed Deneuve and she was probably never better than when she was directed by the master . Like Juan Bardem's unfairly forgotten " calle mayor " , " Tristana depicts a small Spanish town still entangled in religion . But the times are changing . Don Lope ( Rey ) has become an hedonist and he tells us that it's Mosis who made sex a sin . Tristana is his ward , but as she confesses it to the painter , " I'm his daughter and his wife " . Tristana is perhaps Bunuel's more complex woman . The physical metamorphosis of Deneuve is stunning . From the virgin who puts her hair in braids to the bitchy one-legged woman , she runs the whole gamut . She refuses marriage because it kills love , and when she finally becomes Lope's wife , she uses it as a way of humiliating and frustrating her old husband whom she despises . The noise in the corridor as Tristana walks on her crutches while Lope is sipping hot chocolate with his friends ( priests ) shows frustration as nobody but Bunuel can . The dream , ( Rey as a bell clapper ) , which will remain " Tristana " ' s most famous scene , will puzzle the audience . The first time it had appeared , I did not think at all it was a dream . Bunuel will take this technique to its absolute limits in " discreet charm of the bourgeoisie " , his following work . We find back some of Bunuel's permanent features in " Tristana " : Lope , full of jealousy and locking up his ward , is a distant cousin of the hero of " El " ; the deaf and dumb boy , some kind of brother of Maria in " la mort en ce jardin " ; The old man who sees his youth slip away was already in " Viridiana " ( Fernando Rey again ) ; fetishism ; exhibitionism : in a memorable scene , Tristana , who refuses to give herself to her future husband ( the wedding scene follows the exhibitionist one ) shows her magnificent body to the deaf and dumb boy , an outcast , the scum of the earth , derisively . Recommended , as anything Bunuel did .
super captivate us	As Morgan Spurlock announces it in the first minutes of his documentary film about the thumping phenomenon of the fast-food industry : " everthing is getting fat in the United States : firms , lands , fast-food restaurants , portions of the menus they offer and even ( it's sad to say ) millions of American people . To test the perils of bad diet , Morgan Spurlock decides to have all his meals at McDonalds ' for one month to show us how dangerous it really is . At a pinch , his experience is useless because one is virtually sure of the disastrous issue from a physical standpoint . That's not all , under our eyes , Morgan mentally , morally and even sexually wanes . And the junk food he eats has effects similar to drugs . As soon as he ate his menu , he feels overjoyed and later depression overwhelms him . Without mentioning an increasing addiction . The risky experience Morgan Spurlock goes through is a kind of a leading thread to an investigation during which he raises the problem of the proliferation of fast-foods . Reproducing the methods of the Michael Moore stable : the director goes in many fast-food restaurants and places dealing with the dangers of a bad , dangerous diet , interviews many passers-by in the street or people in high places , Morgan Spurlock points his finger on the irresponsibility of the food industry who is obsessed with profit and neglects good eating habits . Towards the end of the film , Spurlock tries to get through on the telephone to an important member of the McDonalds firm but can't manage to do so . It paves the way to the conditioning of children at an early age with the unhealthy food they're given for their lunches at school and later adverts about McDonalds seen on TV , the latest menus offered to customers that become increasingly fat ( the menus ) but also the efforts made by overweight people who try to lose weight through different means . All this is shot in a hard-hitting way and without too many didactic methods . Spurlock didn't put aside black humor too : " one can find McDonalds everywhere . In the streets , malls , airports and even hospitals . You understood well . You'll be on the spot in the case of an infarction " . At one point , Spurlock interviews a French woman in the street who think that overweight people who try to sue fast-foods because they deem them responsible for their obesity is a silly idea . That's also my opinion and it is common to many French people . In a way , the fast food industry encourages people to behave in an irresponsible way . At the end of his project , the director calls upon our responsibility and good sense . Either you continue to go regularly , even daily to eat in fast-foods . Either , you'd better stop or at least to put a brake on your junk food consumption . And it is a thoughtful way to end a heartfelt assessment about a major problem in the United States but also in Western Europe . One to muse on . One learns at the end of the documentary that the " super size " menu was definitely removed from the list of dishes available at McDonalds . The film didn't really help to this action but it is a promising step .
life isn't a long quiet river	So , here's one of the most anticipated movies of the year 2005 and the sequel to one of the biggest French hits in 2002 : " l'Auberge Espagnole " which also acts as a commendable and valuable ambassador for French cinema abroad , " les Poupees Russes " . Lucid , the director Cédric Klapisch didn't opt for " l'Auberge Espagnole 2 " . Anyway one can't renew the Erasmus stay ( which I am currently experiencing ! ) a second time . " Les Poupees Russes " has nothing in common with the corny sequels that Hollwood cinema has been cramming us for years . And as Francis Veber once said : " what is a sequel ? It's generally a shoddy remake of the original movie " . So Cédric Klapisch finds again his character of Xavier and undertook to tell his life in his early thirties . Five years after his experience as an Erasmus student in Spain , he is back . He had said in the first movie : " my life has always been a mess and will always be . . . " . These words appear to be visionary . His life is far from satisfying him : he has become a writer but he has to pen biographies of celebrities and scenarios for mawkish sitcoms . His private life is hardly better : he struggles hard to find the perfect girl though his charismatic part . In short , it's a rather murky life and have a look at the cover of the film . It depicts Xavier who moves forward , with a puzzled air . He is surrounded by pretty girls . Which one is the the perfect one ? And anyway , does the perfect girl exist ? And why do we have to love just one girl and not several ones . These are some the questions that Klapisch raises and doesn't bring a definitive answer to them . It's up to the audience to think about them on account of Klapisch's piece of work . If Klapisch had built " l'Auberge Espagnole " from start to finish with as a source , his memories of cinema student in New York and her sister's who lived one year in Spain with other European fellows under the same roof , here one has to look in Truffaut's filmography for his credentials , more specifically the Antoine Doinel saga . Truffaut had shot in a series of films , the evolution of his favorite hero in his professional and private life . With " les Poupees Russes " , it seems that we also have this beginning of device with so far better results for I am not really a Truffaut devotee . Would Xavier be the Antoine Doinel of the 2000's ? Anything goes . . . Klapisch has his own trademark to shot the life or rather the various difficulties of his main figure and one is happy to realize that his film writing still works wonders . " Les Poupees Russes " looks like a sequel of a little maladjusted play lets in which Xavier tries to order a life eventually beyond his control . These play lets encompass a great thickness in their writing and a visual richness , the whole with a dash of humor and nostalgia . Their chief force is honesty : a substantial number of situations rings true and it's highly likely that the viewer has already known some of the filmed circumstances . And there's always this typical feature from the director to make a trite situation a dense one . One word about the cast : it's a topnotch one . Romain Duris shines in a part that was tailor-made for him . He has never been so good with Klapisch . All his European sidekicks are present with a special mention to Kelly Reilly and Kevin Bishop as William , the future married in a more subdued part than in " l'Auberge Espagnole " . He has found a soul mate and matured in spite of an explosive apparition : " Hello Paris ! Bonjour Paris ! " . After the bitter memory left by Klapisch's adventure in the film noir with " Ni Pour Ni Contre ( Bien Au Contraire ) , 2003 " , the year 2005 saw him on clover again with a forte he had tapped in " le Péril Jeune " ( 1994 ) : a right chronicle on young people of different ages and an accurate appraisal of their feelings . " Les Poupees Russes " constitutes the second opus of a more than estimable duo . Will there be a third chapter on Xavier's life ?
the department store around the corner	Prior to treasures like " un Air De Famille " ( 1996 ) or " l'Auberge Espagnole " ( 2002 ) and for his very debut movie , Cédric Klapisch chose to plump for the world of work and to illustrate this statement : how to put forward the human dignity of workers in an economical world driven by the laws of supply and demand ? The " little nothings " in question represent all the employees in the department store and in spite of its demeaning character , the title of the film has nothing of a downer . Nor its contents . On the contrary , Klapisch will take a basket of employees to describe them in a colorful manner . However , they are likely to be redundant for the department store " les Grandes Galeries " is going to close down if it doesn't deliver profitable results . So , the new manager Mr . Lepetit ( Fabrice Luchini ) decides to boost business again by highlighting human and social values revolving around communication , friendliness and good mood among the employees and towards the customers . All this to generate a more playful , more laid-back vibe and this manager isn't afraid to go further by inciting his staff to take part collectively in intense psychoanalytic sessions , lessons to properly smile or individual sports like bungee jumping . . . It's only his first movie but the Klapisch touch is already palpable on the screen . To film these " little nothings " who are individual members of a group , the filmmaker developed a great proximity with them , making himself almost their accomplice . He also handles his camera in a subtle way like this traveling going from Vanessa and then moving high to give a general view of the big , versatile shop . To write his film with Jackie Berroyer , the filmmaker spent days in the same department store to capture a day work of an employee . It's evident on the screen . Nothing is false and a good proportion of the scenes ring true . Klapisch's own approach of the comedy is already there : his film is filled with gags , droll cues which could be models of the art of absurd and nonsense such as : " I don't like relaxing music , it irritates me " and quirky scenes . I relish the one in which a vigilante arrests a young thief and takes him in a room in which another one of his partners is already there and eventually , the two vigilantes bicker themselves instead of punishing the young boy ! And some characters have special name . The name of the manager Lepetit means " little " in French . It's a sharp contrast for a man who is broad-minded and vivacious ! And Jean-Pierre Darroussin's name is " Domrémy " : the link of three musical notes . An adequate name for a seller in a musical instruments shop . If this Klapisch film is of the right bottle , it's because it shelters a formidable weapon : honesty . So , why not testing it ? And just like the grand Hitchcockian tradition or like a painter signs his or her work in a corner of the painting , the filmmaker has a cameo to earmark his work . Guess without looking at the cast of this film on this site when Klapisch appears . . .
Deut and schland	It was a long way from " Menschen am Sonntag " ( Germany , 1929 ) to " Die Ratten " ( Germany , 1955 ) . It was a long way from " La Crise Est Finie " ( France , 1934 ) to " L'affaire Nina B . " ( France , 1961 ) . Anyway , although a FRench production , " l'Affaire Nina B . " is definitely a German movie , even if the lead is Pierre Brasseur . It is another unfairly overlooked work by Robert Siodmak , a director who took the film noir to its absolute peaks in America . " Nina " is no longer a film noir , although in several respects , it is . Now the gangsters have been replaced by the war criminals and the spies , the femme fatale ( Nadja Tiller replaces Ava Gardner and Yvonne de Carlo ) has turned into a whore hired as a secretary . The cast and credits set the tone : split Germany ; two bits of map which read " DEUT " and " SCHLAND " , like two pieces of a jig saw , a la Saul Bass For a man like Siodmak , who was driven away from his country when the Nazi rose to power , it meant a lot . A movie which was ahead of its time , it anticipated the spy thrillers about the cold war . Pierre Brasseur is a blackmailer " specialized " in war criminals . Anyway , all the characters of the movies are " Ratten " ( rats ) : from the corrupt lawyer to the bosses who pretend they help the third world to the pitiful chauffeur , a loser no longer to react to events anymore . Extraordinary scenes : Brasseur visits one of his " customers " : he tells him about what he " did " in the war : so there were 81 persons killed instead of 80 ? Who cares ? Someone cares : the criminal's seventeen-year old son heard it all . No burst of anger , no tears , no melodrama , but this boy " who could have been part of the victims " and " who's already heard his school mates talk about his dad's past " cannot take it anymore . And there's this sublime finale . Like in " die Ratten " , which also took place in Christmas time and which included a ball , the b . . . . . celebrates his triumph . But it will be short-lived . As the clock is striking twelve and the revelers are breaking into the traditional " Auld Lang Syne " , Mister B . collapses on his table , struck down by a heart attack ( but hasn't he swallowed his pills ? " His magnificent wife walks towards him : maybe it's the triumph of the femme fatale after all those American years . With its use of cinemascope , its icy pictures and its murky atmosphere , " L'Affaire Nina B . " has a deadly charm .
We're captive on the carousel of time . . . . . ( Joni Mitchell )	. . . . we can't never return , we can only look behindFrom where we came And go round and round and round in the circle game . When I began to watch " La Cavalcade des Heures " , I was not expecting much ! I was almost immediately enthusiastic about it . La Cinémathèque Française owns a copy and it's really too bad this work should not get out of that place and at last be screened on the French cultural channel Arte . " La Cavalcade des heures " , like Carné ' s " Les Visiteurs du soir " ( in spite of veiled hints at the Occupation ) , Cocteau-Delannoy's " L'Eternel Retour " or Lherbier's " La Nuit Fantastique " is escapist stuff . And it magnificently succeeds . Probably inspired by Fritz Lang's " Dër Müde Tod " , it is , along Albert Valentin's contemporary works , the lost gems of the French cinema of the days of the Occupation . Prologue : An expressionist film set ( which , again shows Lang's influence ( " Metropolis " ) ) sets the tone : the one thing man will never master is Time . It reigns over the world and from time to time an hour comes to man's rescue . We will follow one of them , Hora . Segment one or " If life's for living then what's living for ? " A working man is sleeping . Rude awakening . First the alarm clock then the clocks . . . ticking . . . Ticking . . . It's just a routine day , but the man begins to think that he is caught in a trap . . . . four minutes for breakfast . . . Then the tube ( subway ) . . . then the factory where he repeats the same gesture 3 , 000 times or more a day . . . Segment two or " Getting old and running out of time " : A state employee realizes how empty his life was with a shrew of a wife ( portrayed by the marvelous Jeanne Fusier-Gir ) Segment three or " The time has come " . A glorious champion was given flowers by a lady ( Hora ) every time he won the race . But one day she makes him comprehend his time is almost through and he ' s got to hand the torch to someone else . Segment four or " these precious minutes " . A lady ( Gaby Morlay ) comes to visit her ( very young ) son in a boarding-school . She's in a hurry , eager to meet her lover , but Hora holds back the hands of the clock and she is an hour late . Too late for her lover who is about to be arrested . Segment five or " Brother can you spare a dime ? " . In spite of Fernandel's presence , this sketch is the weakest , some equivalent of the game of golf in " dead of night " , a comic relief which is too derivative . Segment six or " time waits for no one " . A rich owner of a night club feels sick when he comes home late at night . He takes to his bed , Hora is here . " It's your last hour " she says . The man ( Charpin ) is only fifty and he wants to live more ( " Half a century " she says " think of it ! many men are not so lucky ) . Like in the old Egyptian religion , then begins some kind of weighing of the soul where even the ghost of his late mother comes back . . . . There's nothing to do about it when your time has come . . . DepressingSegment seven or " Where have all the good times gone ? " : this one is the most brilliant . Charles Trénet was never as moving , as good and as charming . . . He portrays a man who seems to have anything : fortune , fame , women aplenty ; one night he invites an old poor woman , who is begging for food in the streets . He treats her to the delights of champagne and caviar . He opens up and tells his frustrations , his regrets , he calls her " Grandmother " and longs for a childhood long gone . Then the haunting melody of " Que Reste-t-il de Nos Amours " is not far from driving the viewer to tears . That's here that the song belongs , not in some of Truffaut's flicks ( that new wavelet director even stole the title of his movie from that superb song ( " Baisers volés " ) ) Segment eight or " You can't beat time " . A man was sentenced to death and he waits for the executioner in his cell . Then comes Hora . The desperate prisoner asks for a reprieve , crying it was not his fault and he was a victim of destiny . We're closer to Lang's " Der Müde Tod " than ever . Hora helps him to escape but she knows that his attempt is doomed . As he drives his car at a dizzying speed , she gives him a cigarette . The condemned man's last smoke . . . . A wheel rolls on the road ( Claude Sautet will use this picture for the first scene of " Les Choses de la Vie " ) Hora comes back there where time reigns over man , eternal captive on the carousel of time . A great film ! Should not be missed . I'd like to see more films of Yvan Noé ! !
Bunuel's road movie !	- He who commits sacrilege with an impious movie . - Let him be an anathema ! By the late sixties , Louis Bunuel , who was an atheist , thanks to God , did not take himself seriously anymore . However this work , " Le Charme Discret de la Bourgoisie " " Le Fantome de la Liberté " or " Cet Obscur Objet du Désir " were not that much different from " Nazarin " " Simon du Désert " " Viridiana " or " La Mort en ce jardin " . One thing Bunuel's oeuvre does not lack is unity . " La Voie Lactée " deals with religion . If you've brought up a catholic , if you have a good knowledge of the gospels , it can help you appreciate such a film crowded with incident , taking place far away on a road with two pilgrims on their way to Spain ( St Jacques de Compostelle ) , or long ago in Jesus Christ ' s times . There is an ironical " documentary prologue " at the beginning of the film - a trick the great director had already used in " Hurdes " when , out of the blue , he began a lecture on the mosquitoes . And if the message is not clear enough , the last message reads " all documents , theories and quotes from the gospels " are historically accurate ! In his final movies , Bunuel shows his great sense of humour ; Jean-Luc Godard , he is not . He is so much better ! An intellectual director whose work is accessible to anyone . Whatever he films , a spoof on the wedding feast at Cana or George Marchal fighting a duel with Jean Piat ( and one of them saying " My liberty is a phantom ! ! ! ) because of a disagreement about theology , students cursing the heathen , he rules . Bunuel tackles the Christian dogma : his priests and holier-than-thou characters such as the butler in front of his luxury buffet or the headmistress of the chic girls school are often contradicting what they said before . And the humble people they meet ask sometimes relevant questions ; dig this one : " what will become of the host ( our Lord's body ) in the human stomach ? " . And Bunuel does not confine himself to the Christian religion : " nowadays " , the vicar says , " the entire world is catholic ! " " What about the Muslims ? the Jews ? " " The Muslims ARE catholics ; so are the Jews , mainly the Jews . " The scene of the crazy priest might have been borrowed from the Fernandel sketch of " Le Diable et Les Dix Commandements " by Julien Duvivier ( 1962 ) . The scene at the inn , - perhaps inspired by Autant-Lara ' s anti-clerical " L'Auberge Rouge " - with its priceless tale of a Virgin Mary's miracle and the mystery of the passing of the hours of the night will be used again in the " Fantôme de la Liberté " with gusto . The cast is a who's who of the French actors of the era : Laurent Terzieff , an intellectual thespian , is cast against type as an uneducated tramp ( but the films suggest he might have been a revolutionary man ) ; Edith Scob is the perfect Virgin Mary ; Delphine Seyrig , the future stand out of " Le Charme Discret . . . " has only three minutes to shine , and she succeeds brilliantly . Plus Michel Piccoli , Julien Berteau , Alain Cuny , Bernard Verley , Denis Manuel , Pierre Clementi and many more . Do go on a pilgrimage to Saint-Jacques de Compostelle with Luis Bunuel !
Children's realm .	When this film was released , one French critic , Gilles Colpart wrote that TRuffaut did better when he focused on a main character , Antoine Doinel , for instance . At least here , we do not have to stand Jean-Pierre Léaud's mannerism . The people who watch Léaud's movies dubbed in English cannot imagine how lucky they are . Gone is Léaud , gone is Truffaut's sometimes smugness and pretension . Here we find what Truffaut does best : a movie about children played by children ( he had brilliantly succeeded in the very hard task of bringing Victor the " wild child " to the screen ) A lot of humor ( a quality that is not generally Truffaut's forte ) , a lot of plots and subplots masterfully intertwined , no stars , and a lot of spontaneity too . These vignettes are often delightful : the reluctant student declaiming Molière , the girl who " has already slept with a boy " ( What did he do when you were in bed ? her best friend asks-Oh , he read a comic strip , was the answer ) , the boy who says to his friend's mother " thanks for this frugal meal " after having swallowed a whole lot of food . But Truffaut , present in the movie through the schoolteacher character , does not give up more serious topics : here mistreated children . After he discovered one of his pupils suffered such physical cruelty , the schoolteacher explains this problem to his school mates with delicacy and intelligence , as if they were adults . Don't miss this simple , yet heart-warming movie .
Flaubert revisited by Hollywood .	Three versions stand out as far as Flaubert's classic is concerned : the Jean Renoir one , with Valentine Tessier , which has not worn well , the acting has become unconvincing and almost lurid when you see it today , Minelli's version and Claude Chabrol's starring Isabelle Huppert , which doesn't avoid totally academism , despite Jean-François Balmer's portrayal of Charles that steals the show . Now for Minelli ' s attempt : some have been hard on his rendition , and however , it features the best Emma ever : Jennifer Jones , the romantic heroine par excellence . Her savage beauty , looking tense , triumphs here . The supporting acts are well-chosen : Van Heflin is oafish , meek . The French Louis Jourdan is well-cast as Rodolphe Boulanger , Emma's lover who betrays her and leaves her to despair . Their final confrontation , in Boulanger's luxury mansion oozes hatred and contempt . The main drawback is the rural background : Minelli did not realize how this country life disgusted Emma : the wedding , a very very peasant one , which Flaubert describes in lavish detail , is too short on the screen . The farms are too clean-Emma dreamed her childhood away because she could not stand the mediocrity of her milieu . She jumped out of the frying pan into the fire : a two-bit doctor , a would-be sawbones who ' s totally incompetent . Van Heflin's rendering makes up for Minelli's weaknesses . The movie is sandwiched between two brief scenes of Flaubert ' s trial ( He was accused of immorality in his book ) , that's redundant . It would have been better to tell the audience about Emma's daughter's terrible fate : after the doctor's death , an orphan , she becomes a worker in a spinning mill . Supreme decay for a mother who was longing to be a socialite .
An explanation ? There is none .	That was what Luis Bunuel used to answer when asked about the meaning of one of his least accessible works . Much less linear than " Viridiana " - featuring the same actress Silvia Pinal-which precedes it , " El Angel exterminador " can be looked upon as an allegory . We find a lot of permanent features of the Bunuel canon in it though . The fact that the guests cannot leave the luxury house will find an equivalent in " le charme discret de la bourgeoisie " ( 1972 ) when the five characters cannot have a good meal at the restaurant ; the guests turning like lions in a cage echo to this strange picture of the five heroes of " charme discret " walking on an endless road . This is the kind of movie that will have as many interpretations as there are users writing about it . And Bunuel would probably be the first to say that anyone is allowed to see his movie as he feels it in his soul - which is a word he would not certainly approve of though . Another put-down of the bourgeoisie , probably ; As Charlie Chaplin would not have let an ice-cream fall on a poor woman's dress , Bunuel's wholesale massacre concerns the rich , the well-to-do . The house may be a metaphor for their world which they want to keep exactly as it is . But Bunuel soon scratches the varnish and after long hours , his powerful bourgeois are just men and rather hateful selfish cowards - the scene when they rush to get a glass of water . And as they cannot rely on themselves and on their pals , the only assistance can only come from above : so they promise God they will chant Te Deums , they will go to Lourdes and buy a washable rubber Virgin ( sic ) . Surrealist pictures , which had been absent since " cela s'appelle l'aurore " ( 1955 ) come back for a while during one night , and they mainly deal with religion and heaven . The mystery of the night hours will come back in " le fantôme de la liberté " ( 1974 ) The last pictures bring the missing link : the army , shooting people ( talking about a revolution ? ) , as the bourgeois keep on singing ( ? ) and praying ( ? ) in the cathedral . Recommended ? Everything Bunuel did is crying to be watched .
Love story	This is the only movie by Serge Debecque , and against all odds , it's a really worthwhile effort ; too bad he did not continue . A rich girl ( Suzanne Bara ) is in love with her father-in-law ' s ( Pierre Renoir ) librarian ( Serge Reggiani ) . The wealthy man wants her to marry a military man but she's not prepared to accept it . So , in some kind of " love story " in reverse , she marries the poor guy . This young man has a cousin ( Andrée Clement ) , who seems secretly in love with him but in fact we ' ll never know what she feels . The movie smartly combines melodrama with fantasy film elements : there are hints at Nostradamus , fate , coincidences ( check the title ) and a box which seems to be a bad luck charm . Suzanne Bara was not much of an actress and her part of a romantic girl who thinks that money cannot buy happiness suffers accordingly . Serge Reggiani is as excellent as ever , but , for the first and last time in his career , he is eclipsed by his other female co-star Andrée Clément , whose performance is absolutely mind-boggling . Clement died well before her time at 36 , and considering the talent she displays in this movie , one can't help but regretting she passed away at such an early age . The audience never knows whether she is good or evil , if she loves the hero or she hates him , if she gave him the mysterious box because she had sworn to ruin him . The actress is cold , often dressed in black , she has disturbing lines such as " It never happens anything to me " or " there's not enough room for my grief in your house " . " Coincidences " is , along Decoin's " La Fille Du Diable " ( another must for French cinema connoisseurs ) , her best role . The last pictures compare favorably with works such as " Peter Ibbetson " or " Portrait of Jennie " . Good depictions of the garden party and the farandole around " Le Feu De La Saint Jean " ( bonfire lit to celebrate the summer solstice ) . Like this ? try these . . . . . . " Le Pays Sans Etoiles " Georges Lacombe 1945 " La Foire Aux Chimères " Pierre Chenal 1946 " La Fille Du Diable " Henry Decoin 1945 " Les Amants du Pont Saint Jean " Henry Decoin , 1947
Leaving the bourgeoisie and its discreet charm . . . .	This must be one of Bunuel's most accessible works . It's often hard to find the master's touch but , although it sometimes recalls Italian neorealism ( all that concerns Sandro's family ) , the picture of the Christ - the only element of surrealism in the whole work - signals Bunuel's inimitable talent . Georges Marchal , who was good friend with the director , portrays a charitable doctor , almost what we could call a secular saint . He's got a practical mind and he does what Nazarin and Viridiana will try to do in the name of God . He is l'Honnête Homme , in the Bunuelesque sense of the term . Religion is not part of his life and however , he is always around when it comes to lending a hand to his fellow men . The man of God , the priest is also here , but he's in the boss's bourgeois house : when the distraught Sandro ( Gianni Esposito ) comes to him , he tells him " go back home , my son " , when the poor man has got no more house and wife . The movie tells the story of a man leaving slowly but inexorably the discreet charm of the bourgeoisie . First step is falling for a woman who is not part of his milieu ( Lucia Bosé ) . Second step is breaking up with his wife ( and his father-in-law ) . Third and final step is refusing to become an informer and finally joining his friends , all working class men . Georges Marchal gives an effective warm performance . His character is very close to the one he will play in Bunuel's French follow up " La Mort en Ce Jardin " . That raider might possibly be the doctor estranged from his country , milieu and family . Both have got a practical mind : in " La Mort En ce Jardin " , Marchal lights a fire with the pages of the Bible . Bunuel's obsessions are still here : the mistreated donkey , the girl raped by her grandfather , the boys playing at soldiers and blindfolding one of them before shooting him . But they do not seem to matter much next to the hero's line of thought : this be called the dawn of his life .
ten years later . . .	Ten years ago , the Cure issued their first compilation , " Staring at the Sea : the Singles " ( 1986 ) accompanied by a video encompassing their hits . Ten years later , in October 1997 , Robert Smith's band released their second collection of hits : " Galore : the Singles 1987-1997 " with the eponymous video . Between and even before those ten years from " Let's Go to Bed " ( 1982 ) , Tim Pope became the band's celebrated video clip director . So , when you discover this video , you can expect to watch little masterpieces . I must admit that in general I have never been a fan of the clip including the artists I admire except for the Cure . Their videos are sophisticated and visually appealing . Like in its brother " Staring at the Sea : the Images " ( 1986 ) , some hits are transfered in images through the classic way of the band playing their songs with their instruments . Such is the case here with " Fascination Street " or " a Letter to Elise " but it doesn't stop these songs to enjoy elaborated camera work which put them several notches below ordinary songs often filmed in a banal way at concerts . And like its predecessor , the band plays their hits with passion in a scenery that suits the best to capture the feelings a song could convey . So , to play " High " high in the sky among the clouds at the top of a tower was the ideal place to recreate its vibe . Ditto for " Catch " which the scenery is a desirable mansion by the sea enhances the languorous melody of the song . And perhaps Smith thought a cave was the most favorable place to sing his love for his wife in " Love Song " . Perhaps the apex of this relation song / scenery finds itself in " Friday I'm in Love " which sees the band playing as numerous kitsch scenery and various crazy things happen to them . Maybe , to celebrate love at the outset of the week-end . . . As it's often the case when a clip from the Cure is directed by Tim Pope , you have to expect a real party atmosphere emanating from it . The gloomy image the band showcased at the dawn of their career is far away . That said , Robert Smith and his men enjoyed themselves with this image on the video for " Lullaby " , arguably the best of this vibrating batch . For the rest , the party atmosphere is in full swing in the videos of " Why Can't I Be You ? " and " Mint Car " . In the former , the five members dance , sing , pretend to play the sax with Smith dressed up as a polar bear and the former drummer Boris Williams as Dracula . The latter takes us in various cinema sets on a boisterous pace . And sometimes like in " Never Enough " , the band isn't afraid to give in to self-derision . Most of these droll videos brim with inventiveness , madness , colors and " Joie De Vivre " and end up sketching a certain cohesion . Tim Burton's quirky universe might have been among Pope's credentials . Unfortunately , he will be out of luck in cinema because he'll make the insipid sequel to " the Crow " ( 1994 ) : " the Crow 2 : City of Angels " ( 1997 ) . So , if the Cure is in your straitjacket of favorite bands , I can only advise you to stick to this vibrant collection of colorful hits . Most artists must think that making videos is a chore . Robert Smith and his tribe didn't seem to be among them . . .
Detective stories	French critic and director Bertrand Tavernier wrote : how can somebody find interest in cheesy theater à la Jean Delannoy like " detective story " ? ( in " 50 ans de cinéma américain " ) He was twice wrong 1 ) Jean Delannoy is , although academic , a very competent director . 2 ) " detective story " is a very absorbing work , with a sensational Kirk Douglas , who runs the whole gamut of emotions . Douglas portrays a pure cop but one hard on himself and the others . He perhaps gives the best performance of a detective in a movie . He gets strong supports from William Bendix , Lee Grant , Eleanor Parker and Cathy O'Donnell . There are so many subplots that it fits Wyler style like a glove . Many things happen at the same time , and only the " Best years of our lives " director could use the depth of field to such startling effects . A scene is hardly over , another one begins , and almost all the action concentrates in the stifling atmosphere of a police station , during an afternoon . By the time the night has fallen , everything is over . A lot of subjects are on the screen : from an old lady complaining they're building atomic bombs in her neighborhood , to the problems of abortion-it was a courageous move for the time - . The young lad , whom O'Donnell tries to save , recalls the characters of " the best years of our lives " : he was a soldier for five years during WW2 , and because , in a moment of distraction , he stole money from his boss , his life might be ruined . William Wyler's direction is stunning and flawless . I wish Tavernier could make movies that stand the test of time as well as this one .
The gall of human unkindness .	In France , nobody did film noirs like Duvivier . They say he invented the genre with his " Pepe le Moko " ( 1937 ) . Duvivier's films noirs are as pessimistic as it can be . His characters are pitiful at best or evil . All along his brilliant career , from " Poil de Carotte " to " La fin du Jour " to " voici le temps des assassins " , Duvivier was the poet of the blackness of the human soul , he used to paint the inmost depths of greed and perversity . Chabrol has sometimes equaled him , never surpassed . Along with Clouzot , he reigns over the French film noir . " Chair de poule " : those were the days of the Nouvelle Vague and Duvivier's work was dismissed as cheesy " cinema de qualité " . Those were the days . But Duvivier's work survived . Hadley Chase's book resembles " the postman always rings twice " but Duvivier manages to take its noir side to new limits . In Cain's work , love did exist between the two leads . Here greed , rapaciousness . Nothing else . Welcome to Duvivier's world . As I wrote above , Duvivier's characters are either pitiful and meek ( Daniel , Thomas ) or pure evil ( Maria , the old man and his ugly offspring , Paul ) . The odd couple ( the not-so-handsome hubby and his sexy wife ) was already in " Voici le temps des assassins " ( 1956 ) . The only living being we can trust seems to be a dog , an animal that plays an important part in both movies . Maria ( Catherine Rouvel ) recalls often Catherine ( Danielle Delorme ) but her sensuality is more aggressive . Duvivier ' s directing is perfect : he treats one of his scenes like a true western : " this is the Wild West " Paul says while entering the eating-house . And Rouvel , trying to learn the combination of the safe from a wounded Hossein , reminds me of Von Stroheim's " greed " . Duvivier avoids all the easy way outs , all the Hollywood tricks , and his movies are among the few we can call " genuine " film noirs . The last part , which drags all the characters towards doom , culminates in an apocalyptic scene , with the final pictures depicting Hell's antechamber . Although not looked upon as one of Duvivier's best , " Chair de poule " was great , coming from a sixty-something who had perhaps never made a truly bad film . A remake was filmed in Thailand .
A serial killer not like the other ones . . .	Raymond Lemorne gives the image of a model man . He lives in the south of France in a country house , he's married and has two children . He's also a chemistry teacher . In short , he's a respectable and respectful man . But , he leads a double life . He's also a serial-killer who lures women into a trap to kill them . Why does he do this ? We will learn his secret which gives a cold back at the end of the film . It's true . We already saw this type of character a thousand times in the cinema but " Spoorloos " retains the attention because , here Lemorne's motive matters the most . It's a suspenseful and original movie in the way we know the name of Siskia's killer , well before Rex and virtually from the beginning of the movie but we've got to know his motive . In this flick , the murderer doesn't kill for sadistic pleasure or because he suffers from mental trouble but under metaphysical believes . Lemorne doesn't trust in determination and wishes to determine precisely the frontier between good and evil inside him . The title of the film in French was translated by " l'homme qui voulait savoir " ( the man who wanted to know ) . This title was well chosen because it is relevant with the topic of the movie . It has a double meaning : 2 men want to know something . On the one hand , Rex who investigates about his girlfriend Saskia's vanishing and on the other hand , Lemorne who tries to discover where evil has its limits according to him . It is thanks to this new variation on the serial killer movie that " Spoorloos " draws a big authenticity and it surely explains why Hollywood was interested by making a remake of it several years later . But " Spoorloos " has plenty other qualities which deserve to be enumerated . The director George Sluizier opts for sobriety and simplicity with eventually limited means . He avoids as much as possible spectacular effects and there are nearly no special effects or violent sequences . Lemorne's strange habits arise the spectator's curiosity and Sluizier proceeds by little touches to describe his main character's wrongdoings . He also has the developed sense of detail . Throughout the film , we often see unusual objects which we will learn their real function at the end of the film . Sluizier also succeeds in imposing mystery and anxiety in apparently calm and peaceful Mediterranean landscapes . Bernard Pierre Donnadieu's imposing composition ( a great and underrated French actor ) in an unexpected role he takes with consummate skill should convince you to watch this film . But it would be unfair to neglect the two other main actors ( Gene Bervoets and Johanna Ter Steeze ) who also show talent . With " Spoorloos " , Dutch cinema has given us a true gem and concerning the remake , I didn't watch it but the odds are that it must be inferior to the first version .
Le Visiteur du Soir	Immediate background : Dréville's 1944 weepie " la Cage aux Rossignols " was a blockbuster in the Occupation years . It featured the boys choir " les Petits Chanteurs A La Croix de Bois " playing boarders in a reformatory . It was such a huge success it was remade some years back as " les Choristes " . " Le Visiteur " features " Les Petits Chanteurs . . . " again . They are cast as boarders of an orphanage . A rehash ? Pas du Tout . Whereas " La Cage aux Rossignols " is a dated tear-jerker , " Le visiteur " is a somber meditation on heroes and villains , on childhood's lost illusions ; it is Jean Dreville's most satisfying movie , and one of Pierre Fresnay's unfairly forgotten parts . Around midnight at the orphanage . . In the corridors of the house , in the darkest night , up comes a man . Dréville , from the very start of his story , creates a mysterious haunting atmosphere . Who is this man ? For the headmaster , it's the second coming ! The messiah ! He'd always told him he would come back some day . He was the pride of the orphanage , a former pupil who became a celebrated lawyer . He is a God , no less . . . There's in the house a place dedicated to him , with his pictures , flowers , decorations . . . It looks like an oratory ! But the hero is not the one you think he is ; the Police are hot on his heels , and he is looking for a refuge . Jean-Bernard Luc's screenplay avoids all the traps ( no love scenes : the one woman who appears for a five-minute scene is a bitch and an informer ; no easy way out : no miscarriage of justice , no wrong man trick ) and is as demanding as a good film noir should be . For the headmaster , it would be terrible , unthinkable to tell his pupils the man they admire is a criminal ; " I leave you the legend " Pierre Fresnay says before his night begins . These children , who live in a fairy tale , which becomes a thriller in which they are involved , these children who have no fathers to admire desperately need a model . The scene on the train in Paris is revealing . They would give everything to ride this train with their hero . And when the cops capture him , they help him to escape . Sauval ( check the name : it looks like the French verb " sauver " ( save ) ) has not become a criminal overnight . He's always been one . To climb the social ladder rung by rung , he had to push the others out of his way ; he was not a lawyer who , like a knight from the MIddle Ages , used to protect widows and orphans . Even children were his victims . And even the money he sent to his old school was dirty money . . . But he and the headmaster will arrange things so that nobody among the children can hear the awful truth . One of the boarders , more mature , knows more things than his pals . A sublime shot shows the young teenager watching a bird in a cage , then shedding a tear . Maybe he , too , will pretend the legend is intact . He needs it . The boys choir sings two French folk songs " A la Claire Fontaine " and " Trois Jeunes Tambours " and the French version of " Auld Lang Syne " as a moving finale .
The shameless old lady	Although Pierre Fresnay is at the top of the bill , the actual star of " Le Briseur de Chaines " is sixty-year-old Marcelle Geniat portraying a centenarian with a lot of make - up and an absolutely extraordinary talent . A lady the average viewer of French oldies has seen many many times without perhaps noticing her ( notably Duvivier's " L'Homme Du Jour " and " La Belle Equipe " ) . This lady had her day : it was her triumph and she outshone all the cast , be they Pierre Fresnay , Blanchette Brunoy or Ginette Leclerc . Although labeled " comedy " , " Le Briseur de Chaines " is a harsh work , sometimes verging on human tragedy ( the old lady dying while the youngsters are dancing a farandole ) . A village is about to celebrate their centenarian's feast . In fact , she is only an attraction , something the inhabitants want to show to attract the tourists ( the sign which reads : " to see the centenarian , follow the arrow ) , they do not really care about her . Around her , the family begins to fragment at the edges . The old woman's son wants to choose his children's and nephews's spouses . Then comes a circus with a handsome tamer ( Fresnay ) riding his horse , like some hero of a faraway land . These people mean getting away from this place , sailing away from this cupid narrow-minded bourgeois mean word . The old lady remembers her hundred years and realizes that a life does not measure out in years : hers was a monotonous humdrum life , and the only moments of pleasure she knew were those she spent long ago with a man from that circus " LE BRISEUR DE CHAINES " ( chain breaker ) . And she will break the chains , the ties that bind , and rebel against her family : she " marries " one of the girl to the tamer but she fails with another boy , Laurent , who cannot make up his mind to follow the lovely brunette of the circus ( Ginette Leclerc ) . This shameless old lady her family wants to take to bed on the night of the circus show ( A circus comes every thirty years , I can't afford the luxury to wait ! ) , and make a honorable speech in front of her 147 descendants had to wait to be a hundred years to take a rebel stand . As the lovers are riding away from this mean place , she waves goodbye at her window , after her own grandson has tried to close all the shutters of the inn ( " I'm not still dead ! " ) This is a wonderful movie of the Occupation years , this side of ' Le Corbeau " or " La Vie De Plaisir " ) Like this ? Try these . . . . " Make way for tomorrow " , Leo McCarey 1937 " La Vieille Dame Indigne " , René Allio 1970 " Buon natale , buon anno " Luigi Comencini 1989 " Stanno tutti bene " Giuseppe Tornatore , 1989
Adam raised Cains	First shock : When Wiliam Shattner appears , very handsome , suave and polite , I thought he would be the righter of wrongs , some kind of white MLK . When we discover who he really is , it packs a real wallop ! Second shock : the long speech which he delivers in front of a crowd ready to follow the first to come , provided he helps them to get rid of these intruders in their high school . If you are not convinced that Shatner can be great , this scene is enough : his racist anti-semitic and anti-communist words do not cut , they bite . People who know Corman as a fantasy and horror director will be surprised here . This is a strong political movie , a low-budget production , in black and white with no big stars ( the lead was virtually unknown in 1962 ) . Corman draws a parallel between the scene when Shatner wins over the populace and the one when he seduces the unfaithful wife . The characters are not as simple as they seem ; take McDaniel's wife : in the hospital , she says " I'm proud of you . I do not believe in integration but I believe in you " . It speaks volumes about the way people think . Absorbing . Not to be missed ! Like this ? Try these . . . . Storm warning Stuart Heisler 1951They won't forget Mervyn Le Roy 1937Black legion Archie Mayo 1936
Kes or when childhood is stolen .	From the start , the hero's future is at a complete standstill . His familiar background - an indifferent mother and a brute of a brother-leaves him no hope . His school seems an alien world , of which he cannot take advantage , where the adults are hostile . The gymnastics teacher is a failed football player , and now , with his students , he's still dreaming he's coaching his football team for glory . And because he ' s getting old and embittered , he uses a scapegoat when things go wrong : and of course , he always chooses our unfortunate hero . The shower scene enhances , so to speak , the psychological and pedagogical " aptitudes " of this dumb-and a bit sadistic-man . So , the young boy needs someone to love , and because he cannot find one , he tames an hawk . This hawk epitomizes freedom , escape from this petty microcosm . In direct contrast to the gym teacher , appears the English teacher . He wants the young boy to give a presentation on his hawk . And , in front of a spellbound class , the dog has his day . Thanks to this clever man , the boy acquires self-confidence and maybe his studies will take a new turn . But Kenneth Loach's characters rarely escape from their fate . Because of his brother's cruelty , all hopes will be blighted , and the boy's future will probably that of the two lads in " looks and smiles " . Kenneth Loach or the wrong side of England .
Mother , I needed you ! You didn't need me !	. . . so I . . I just got to tell you : Goodbye ! goodbye ! ( John Lennon ) A prostitute is going up the mountain . Up there , lives her son she left to a shepherd to take care of him . These first minutes are perhaps the best : the mother brings toys to her child but he cannot play , " playing " is a thing he's never done ; she did not intend to bring him back with her , but after a night in the same bed , she understands she cannot live without him . So she takes him down to Marseille . Marseille is the city the place where evil dwells . It's interesting to notice that the mountains ( beginning ) and the sea ( ending ) are providential , they represent purity and honesty . Jeanson's lines , even when applied to melodrama , never lose their bite . The boy asks his mother what she does for a living . " I'm in business " she replies . The boy will have to share his mother with her clients . The lady would like to settle down , but unfortunately she chooses the most despicable macho on the harbor ( he claims he is a navigator ) , a hopeless crook and a coward at that . Madeleine Robinson was one of the greatest French actresses , in the grand tradition of Arletty and Simone Signoret . And Delannoy's movie is also in the grand tradition of the so-called Réalisme Poétique ( Carné's " Hotel du Nord " and " Quai des Brumes " ) and of we've got to call Neo-Réalisme Poétique ( Yves Allégret's " Dédée d ' Anvers " and Marcel Blistène's " Macadam " ) . The final scene when the wailing of the ship merges with the sound of the gun recalls " Quai des Brumes " . " There are boys , you've got to make men of ' em , and there are boys , you've got to make boys of ' em " the wise sailor says . Another very interesting film by Jean Delannoy , whose whole work may sink into oblivion if the French audience is not careful and does not give it a chance : fail to do it and one day the French cinema will be boiled down to the " Nouvelle Vague " clique .
Only melodrama but I like it !	SPOILERS SPOILERS SPOILERS Full bore melodrama ! Everything you expect from the genre is here ! You will cry a river , feel for the heroine and her little boy , Stahl was the prince of the melodrama during those days . This movie is a long flashback : It's black Thursday , the hive of activity is blighted , people are crazy , it's going all over the place . Posh people are throwing a party in a luxury flat : jewels , furs , champagne and caviar . They're dancing on a vulcano . Pretty soon , all of them will be broke . Among them , a man who thought he got it made : he married a woman he does not love anymore , and now all what's left to him is suicide . But there's this letter . Then begins a journey through the past . A woman he forgot tells him about her life , after the evening of their love atr first sight , the only evening , only yesterday . . . Then , the movie focuses on the heroine ( touching Margaret Sullavan ) . He goes to war , she ' s pregnant - it's not a shame anymore nowadays , her optimistic aunt tells her - . THe soldier's return scenes are perhaps the best ones in the whole movie . It seems that they may have influenced M . Kalatozov for " The cranes are flying " . The parade on the street , with Sullavan trying to catch her lover's eye , her despair when he does not even recognize her are heart-wrenching . As often in melodrama ( check " imitation of life " or " back street " ) , a woman without a man is nothing at all . So the only way left for her is the business one . And generally she succeeds ( such is the case of the heroine of " imitation of life " ) . So , Margaret Sullavan makes her way of life , and becomes the owner of a very chic shop . We only steal a glance at it , the social elevation interests Stahl only because it will allow her heroine to enter her former lover's wealthy world . Her son , now a student in a military school , is what you call mother's pride . so she meets again the man , now married , but , again , he does not know her . Sullavan throw him a line , by telling him she was overjoyed twice in her lifetime , the second time this very evening . " And the first time ? " the clueless man whispers . . She leaves . . SPOILERS BEYOND THAT POINTSPOILERS BEYOND THAT POINT Now we enter the heart of melodrama . No melodrama without a death , generally caused by a fatal illness . Poor Sullavan is about to die , and pretty damn quick . Harrowing last scene mother / son . Now we've gone full circle . Back in the present . The lover has finished his letter . He has understood his wife does not mean the slightest thing for him . He rushes to Sullavan's house , just to learn she ' s dead . Then comes a very very strooooong scene . He meets the boy , they begin to speak , the boy shows his medals , and after a conversation about these foolish things that make a life worthwhile , the man says : " I am your father " . End of the movie . Sublime ! AND END OF SPOILER . END OF SPOILER . It's a pity that this film should be forgotten . Maybe " magnificent obsession " and " imitation of life " have taken advantage of Douglas Sirk's brilliant remakes . If you love these works , you will love " only yesterday " too . And not only yesterday or today but forever .
Cynical	Writer Reign shows one more time his insightful knowledge of the old French cinema when he hints at Ginette Leclerc and " Le Corbeau " . In fact , both these works were very risqué , osé , taking cynicism to new limits . Noel Roquevert , cast against type , portrays a wicked unscrupulous swindler , far from his usual good-natured characters . Matching him every step of the way is Leclerc's bitch-with-a-sentimental-side : take the scene where she tells Charpin ( and later another dupe ) that his father is terminally ill ; she is so convincing we almost believe her . On the other hand , Stefani is one of the most frightening villains of the French cinema ; he is all the more disturbing as his face is very familiar ( and rather nice ) to the French audience . His organization is a Mafia in miniature : all his collaborators are actually his victims for " he knows so many bad things about them he could send them all to jail whenever he wants to ( and he does actually ; he pretends to help the unfortunate Baron and he hands him over to justice , so to speak . The ending is one of the most inventive of the cinema of the era and is still impressive today . It compares favorably to Kazan's " a face in the crowd " . All these radios which were part of the swindles backfire against the Master . It belongs to the first era of Cayatte's career but it is really unique for it does not look like - with the eventual exception of his remarkable sketch in " Retour A la Vie " - the other ones , which are literary adaptations .
A second chance .	A beautiful film . John Garfield's character is a distant relative of " Les Miserables " ' s Jean Valjean while detective Rains recalls Victor Hugo's Javert , the ruthless arm of law . Like in many films noirs , the city epitomizes evil whereas the country and the nature represents sanctuary , redemption , and a second chance for those whose life seems forever doomed . But even in the luminous daylight , danger may appear suddenly , as the excellent scene at the reservoir shows . John Garfield - an actor who , as Leonard Maltin points out , should be rediscovered : I've never been disappointed by any of his films except for his supporting part in " gentleman's agreement " but it was not his fault-gives a heartfelt sensitive performance and the audience sides with him as soon as he is unjustly accused ( the first sequence shows a rather unkind hypocrite person , but all his trials redeem him and how do we feel for him during the last scenes with detective Rains . Colorful characters ( grandma and the kids ) add a lot of joie de vivre which is necessary . Humor is also present in the strip poker game as the Dead End brats fleece a rich kid . I recommend this movie .
Conventional Cassavetes .	Can such an epithet be attributed to such a director ? You can say that " Woman under the influence " " A child is waiting " and " husbands " are accessible movies . But " Gloria " does not belong to this group . The question of accessibility has not to be mooted here . It's a real thriller , and it's very hard to discern Cassavetes ' s touch here . Only the long dialogue between the heroïne and one of her old maffia acquaintance recalls the former works . The movie overture is dazzling , visually astounding , recalling by its violence Sam Peckinpah . Gena Rowlands portrays Gloria , a grumpy woman who wants to be left alone , and whose quietness will be disturbed by a young boy whose entire family has been slain by gangsters . Gloria has certainly a shady , even racy past , but bow , she's retired , so to speak . Then a long escape begins , with sometimes a déjà vu feeling as far as Gloria / child relationship is concerned . But Rowlands's sensational skills easily makes up for that . Has anybody noticed that Luc Besson , in " Léon " has plundered Gloria's beginning ? Almost everything , but the sex of the two leads ( a man and a little girl in this case ) , seems to come from Cassavetes's screenplay . But , mind you , Jean Reno is not as expressive as Gena Rowlands , by a long shot .
how to embellish and tell a fulfilled life through the prism of the imaginary . . .	In his life , Will Bloom has grown up with his father's extravagant stories with which he could never separate the parts of reality and imaginary . One more zany story featuring a big fish led him to a feud with him and a break up which lasted three years . He comes back at his bedside for his father is sorely ill . For their last intimate moments , Will wants to know better his father's real identity behind these stories with multiple colorful characters evolving in a crop of various scenery . Before " Big Fish " , Tim Burton had signed two faultless films featuring a main character called Edward : " Edward Scissorhands " ( 1990 ) and " Ed Wood " ( 1994 ) . These offbeat characters remodeled life their own way and gave it a vision steeped in naivety and optimism . By pruning trees and hedges to amount to geometrical and human forms , the former gave a new face to the little town in which he lived , let's admit it not for very long . With an unshakable enthusiasm , Ed Wood put all his naive ideas in two-bit but charming films . Edward Bloom is the worthy heir of these two protagonists . Thanks to his art of storytelling and the power of his imagination , his wondrous stories make the audience travel and make it believe in a better future too . The film reminded me a little of " Forrest Gump " ( 1994 ) because these two works showcase two naive main characters who have little chance to get a fulfilled life and however they achieved this feat . The major difference lies in the fact that in " Big Fish " Burton never prattles stupidly . Anyway , here his own style reaches its climax . An unlikely mix of strange , eccentric and fantastic with the meetings of mundane characters and monsters . The filmmaker keeps tenderness for them either it is the big nice giant or this apparently arrogant ringmaster acted by Danny De Vito who turns into a werewolf at night . I remember having watched an interview with Tim Burton one day in which he said that monsters or monster-like characters were bad because they were often sad and lonely . Such is the case here and that's why the filmmaker keeps tenderness for them . However , the Burton insiders will have surely noticed that the filmmaker virtually didn't include his usual parts of grim and grisly in this chain of tales or they are subdued at best . This helps to better propagate this sensation of innocence and optimism and also to awake in us our children spirits . Because cinema is basically this : the telling of a story and " Big Fish " is this and more . It or rather Edward's mind shelters a thousand tales for everyone . Then , in spite of this innocent vibe which suffuses the whole film , it also keeps a certain grave tonality . Before he started to write and shoot his film , Tim Burton lost his father and became a father ! That's why , emotion can be felt in the scenes between Edward and his son . And there could also be this question : why does Edward present himself in the company of fanciful people in different landscapes ? Why can't he separate the " embellished " from the reality ? Is it because he has a very vivid imagination ? Does he want to go beyond the simple representation of an exemplary life ? These question will go unanswered and the frontier between the real and the imaginary is very blurred . For his 2003 vintage , Tim Burton gathered a stellar cast . Apart from prime performances from Albert Finney and Ewan McGregor , virtually every other minor actor has palpable presence on the screen . I would grant a mention to Steve Buscemi and I dig the scene in which he attacks the bank . Tim Burton completely transcended what seemed to be on the paper a corny subject on a stylish , whimsical treatment . It's a feast for the eyes and the mind . " Big Fish " eclipses the uneven " Planet of the Apes " ( 2001 ) because we found back the real Burton . He once confessed that he had never been an expert at storytelling but when he hires Albert Finney to produce a thousand of them , he unveils some of his unsuspected gifts .
Cops Au Vin	For several years , the thriller genre has been rather tarnished in France and mainly survives by imitating American thrillers which make them downright inferior to their American big brothers . But sometimes , some pieces of works are drawn from the American source and can emulate their American companions . With its big budget , stars and its ambitious goals and if it doesn't completely transcend the genre " 36 Quai Des Orfèvres " is a valuable face-lift whose credentials is incontestably " Heat " ( 1995 ) by Michael Mann . It would be silly to attack the director Olivier Marchal for talking about what he doesn't know . He experienced the ruthless world of the police because he was himself a policeman . Everything rings true in this larger than life description of the police headquarters with its rules and codes and the director holds a hard-hitting way on these policemen with tough relationships who are forced to cooperate together . It's in this milieu that Marchal grabbed two trivial events to weave a fictional work . The chief idea is derivative but underpins the motor of the film : the fight between two unscrupulous cops who don't fear to break the laws to achieve their ends . Daniel Auteuil , a silently confrontational cop who resorts to vehement methods to do his job and Gérard Depardieu as a disillusioned cop who has behind him a heavy past and tames illegality to be promoted . The detractors of the film could object that the two pivotal performances have a rather monotonous acting but it's necessary to underscore the weariness and the disenchantment that eats them . On the other hand , they will be right to think that sometimes the story lacks of fluidity in some linkings of episodes and a thumping music makes some sequences lose the emotional impact they sheltered and cover some dialogs . But for the rest why denying yourself a good thing ? The two characters have their zones of ambiguity which make them spellbinding . There are stunt , action , shooting sequences rigorously shot and a somber cinematography that make a vibrant , dusky French thriller . At last , a great care is given to the interpretation as a whole until the minor roles very well used .
Defiant , pacifist , witty . . . .	. . . . Arletty was all this and more ; my favorite French actress , she possesses a voice you cannot mistake for another one . I second to everything my good friend writer's reign wrote . This Docu focuses on Arletty's salad days and on the war years followed by the sad days of the " epuration " . Only five minutes were given over to her fifteen last professional years ; we are told she triumphed on stage ( they say Brando loved her portrayal of Blanche Du Bois " in Williams play ) and had to content herself with supporting parts , which is untrue . she played several leading parts , notably in " Portrait d'Un Assassin " " L'air De Paris " " L'amour madame " and mainly in two films the French critics have recently restored to favor : Jacqueline Audry's - who was long before Varda , THE female director of the French cinema - " Huis Clos " ( " no exit " from Sartre ) and " Gibier De Potence " . Apart from this , the film does the great actress justice . Frederic Mitterrand , the late president's nephew and an historian , and Jean-Claude Brialy complain about the way she was treated after the war ; she was , as Mitterrand cleverly states , a WW1 child , her first love was killed on the first day of the massacre , then she decided she would not have a child cause a child is bound to be a soldier ( she would have an abortion in the thirties ) . She expresses her disgust for war and above all , her disgust for " holy " war ! And Mitterrand points out that Alexandre Trauner - who would work with Billy Wilder and other American luminaries - who was a Jew would have been sent to the concentration camps if it hadn't been for Arletty's protection ; the same goes for poet Tristan Bernard . After the liberation , some could not forget she had a German lover ; many artists were in trouble too : Sacha Guitry , Ginette Leclerc , Henri-Georges Clouzot ; the " épuration " was so absurd a " clean " film such as " le Ciel est à Vous " was deemed " pétainist " . Arletty was never an informer , and it's obvious she tried to save as many people as she could . Like Madame Tallien during the 1793-94 Terror years of the French Revolution . Some day , they will make a movie based on her life .
Every man is Cain .	SPOILERS SPOILERSFritz Lang had always thought that man was a potential criminal . He ran the whole gamut , showing psychokillers ( M ) , who killed because they could not help it , neurotics ( " secret beyond the door " ) who could easily act , and the guy next door who could be part of the club too . Edward G . Robinson's character belongs to the third category . He's a good-natured professor , whom we will never suspect . He's caught up in the system and we wonder how he will get away with it . Some users will tell Lang takes the easy way with is long dream . But nobody , in 1999 , complained about " The sixth sense " ending ! The most important thing , for Fritz Land is that the man bears in mind ( or in subconscious ) the idea of murder . In " M " , Lang showed a " real " trial-Lorre tried for muredr by the populace - , in " secret beyond the door " he would show , three years after " woman in the window " , an imaginary dreamlike trial where the defendant is also the judge ! " Woman in the window " is a movie that needs to be watched twice , like " beyond a reasonable doubt " ( " when you see this 1956 movie for the first time , you pity Dana Andrews for being a chastised innocent ; the second time , it's more unbearable because he carries the load of his ineluctable culpability " . Jacques Lourcelles , in dictionnaire du cinéma ) . A lot of clues explain the final unexpected twist , and Joan Bennett's first name is not the least : ALICE ! ! ! ! ; but there's also the music which becomes threatening and strange as soon as Robinson leaves his club , the way he meets the woman of his dream - a fabulous tour de force - , this recurrent picture of the clock , the way the " victim " enters the apartment . . . But , like in a nightmare - and this is really one - , the hero seems to get stuck in the quicksand of its mind . " Did I say murder ? " " Did I say barbed wire ? " Did I say poison ivy ? " the prosecutor , his friend , says . Like Dana Andrews in " beyond a resonable doubt " , our miserable hero seems to give away all the clues that may lead him to the road of ruin . All in a dream , where you're only a witness , when you're helpless . It's amazing that all the characters of this long dream do exist in real life , even if they do not always play the same part in it . Only Joan Bennett / Alice is a pure illusion : she epitomizes the forbidden fruit and the other side of the mirror . Needless to say , as almost every movie the great Lang made , this is an unqualified must . Alain Corneau , when he made " Police python 357 " with Yves Montand and Simone Signoret in 1975 was certainly influenced by the screenplay of " window " .
Tribute to Yves Robert .	Yves Robert died a few days back and I write this comment as a tribute to him : " la guerre des boutons " is a timeless brats movie , which can be watched forty years after with the same pleasure : a blockbuster when it was released in France in 1961 , French kids enjoy it at least as much as their parents or grandparents today . Of course , Louis Pergaud's Rabelaisian novel , written at the beginning of last century , was watered down ( but not cheapened ) , or else it would not have been accepted by the censorship : there are lines in this book that would make blush the well-meanings . The words are crude and not prudish at all . The story was much more than a funny joke though : actually , the children aped the grown-ups and THEIR wars : ( " to think , that later , we will be as stupid as'em ! " - this is the last line of the movie ) . Yves Robert transposed the action to the rural sixties . He gathered lots and lots of children whom he directed masterfully . " Magna cum laude " , first class honours , for young " Petit Gibus " ! anyone who watches the movie will love him : he's so funny when he gets drunk ! Shot in black and white , the movie will remind you of your schooldays . Louis Pergaud died in 1915 . The war he was waging was not a war of the buttons .
Numbers theory	Even when he adapts Dostoievski , Robert Siodmak's fondness for film noir can be felt . In the first scene , when Fedor meets Pauline , how not to think of that scene in " the killers " when Swede sees Kitty for the first time ? In both films , Ava Gardner is the femme fatale . Ditto for the last scene in the pawn shop where you can see the reflections of the crosses on the ceiling . Fedor's motive is first love , but little by little , he realizes he is actually in love with gambling , with the numbers . His desire for an " 8 " is almost sexual ; in the hotel , every number ( the key number , etc ) calls him to the casino . The depiction of the place where people are feverishly waiting for the stopping of the roulette is absolutely extraordinary . Gregory Peck gives a riveting performance as the gambler down on his luck , and Ava Gardner's beauty shines all along the film . The supporting cast is up to scratch : Melvyn Douglas is like a puppeteer ( the scene when he pretends he can't find Ostrovsky's notes belongs to him ) ; Frank Morgan as a fallen mathematic teacher and Agnes Moorehead as the owner of a seedy pawn shop make all their scenes count . Ethel Barrymore is so talented an actress she does not need any words ( except " banco " ) to express her gambling fever . Like this ? try these . . . . . " Le Joueur " Claude Autant-Lara 1958 another Dostoievski adaptation , inferior to Siodmak's version . " lo scopone scientifico " Luigi Comencini 1972 " La dame de Pique " Leonard Keigel 1965
A cinema which sells out . . . .	That ' s what Truffaut wrote about " Rue des Prairies " when it was released . Instant karma : as everything Truffaut and his clique used to slag off was to be dismissed by the " true " French cine buffs , " Rue des Prairies " sank without a trace . I must admit I'm far from being a Denys de la Patellière's fan . One can save , in his filmography , " Un Taxi Pour Tobrouk " , an entertaining war movie saved by its actors , and mainly " Retour de Manivelle " his successful attempt at a film noir . But in this film , he was really inspired . Is it the excellent cast featuring an imperial Gabin , with effective supporting young newcomers such as Claude Brasseur , Pierre Brasseur's son , Marie-José Nat and a moving Roger Dumas who almost steals the show from the old star ? Is it the witty funny dialog by Audiard at the top of his game ? Had Truffault displayed more tolerance , more understanding and more perceptiveness , He would have admitted that his Antoine Doinel was really Fernand Neveux's close relative . The only difference is that Fernand is a working-class boy whereas Truffaut's hero was a middle-class offspring ( didn't his mother have diplomas ? ) " Intellectuals do not like the people " Alain Paucard writes in his excellent insightful review in " Guide des Films , tome 2 " . The book rates " Prairies " higher than " les 400 coups " and I can find little fault with the opinion expressed . Gabin came back from war in 1942 to find his wife dead and a baby ( not his ) in his bedroom . A widower , he will raise the toddler with his son and daughter . Fifteen years later , the three children try to " make some money and not to fall into the ranks of suburbia " . But dad is not prepared to accept it . THe first one ( Pierre Brasseur ) , a cycle champion , trashes his father in the gutter press , cause he has learned to be good at selling himself . The second one ( Marie-José Nat ) , who used to work in a shoe shop poses for fashion photographs . She falls for a greybeard who could be her father . The bastard is tormented soul . He knows where he comes from , and although M . Neveux is a a father to him , he has grown into a rebel without a cause . But the most important thing in " Rue des Prairies " , as M . Paucard wrote , is the class struggle . This subject is hinted at in the best scene of the movie , when Gabin comes to see his daughter's lover . The luxury apartment , where a mass by Bach is heard on the record player , this posh man whose doctor put to starvation diet ( tea and Biscottes ) and who can give this blue collar champagne , tea , or whiskey but who has not got any " Pernod " the par excellence proletarian beverage . Such a scene talks louder than one hour and a half of Godardesque rhetoric . And if it were not enough , the last scene , in the courtroom of honor " where the judge pounds his gavel to show that all are equal and the law's on the level " shows a bourgeoisie afraid of a populace turning anticlerical and anti-militarist ( but he ' s got the war cross says a more human judge ) . A justice which is hard on the Poor . It's revealing that Neveux's two other children side with THAT justice .
the most important thing isn't the fall but the landing	" La Haine " , probably one of the most momentous French movies of the nineties caused a stir when it opened in 1995 so much so that it became a big social phenomenon . It heralded a genre : the " film De Banlieue " whose backdrop is high-risk French suburbs and in its wake , other movies emerged like " Bye-Bye " ( 1995 ) or " ma 6-T Va Crack-Er " ( 1997 ) . " La Haine " remains Mathieu Kassovitz's best moment . Afterwards , he didn't cease to disappoint me . " Assassin ( s ) " ( 1997 ) left me uncomfortable and queasy and " les Rivières Pourpres " ( 2000 ) was an absolute turkey . I haven't seen " Gothika " ( 2003 ) but he shot it with the Hollywood presence on his back and I fear the worst . To better be immersed in his plan , Kassovitz shot his film in one of these high-risk French suburbs ( I can't remember its name but you can check it in the " filming locations " rubric when you arrive on the page of the film on this site ) . This gives his movie an ultra-realist sensation which rings true . In the space of a day , his camera follows a threesome of ruffians . There's Vinz ( Vincent Cassel ) who acts the tough guy . He is proud of having stolen the gun of a cop and hopes to make good use of it . When he is asked to make an effort of reflection , he loses his temper . Hubert ( Hubert Koundé ) a pacifist who craves to get out of this daily hell but where to go ? He also knows that hate breeds hate . It's both the catalyst of the riots and adds fuel to the fire in the incessant conflicts . And also Saïd ( Saïd Thagmaouï ) , a brazen teenager . The three of them wander in their neighborhood and in Paris between visiting of friends , relationships with the riffraff , the police , arguments , reconciliations and foolish things . An ordinary day during which the trio appears as prisoners of their suburbs and have a life with no horizon . A day which will lead to the inevitable , marked out by the time which often appears on a black screen . Kassovitz did his best to create a stylish film and it paid off well . It was a good idea to have shot his film in a black and white cinematography because it bestows it with a very gritty aura ; sometimes there's a documentary whiff which pervades the film . His camera work which commands admiration makes juxtapose travelings , static shots and circular movements according to the vibe a sequence could convey . It also helps to enhance the scenery which is perhaps the fourth main actor of the film after the trio . Overrall , his film is a hard-hitting assessment of a faltering universe ( the high-risk suburbs ) in which latent tensions and hate reign and it can awake at any time in violence . This hate in question which the inhabitants of these suburbs feel towards the cops is also smoldered in the cops and I wonder if Kassovitz indicts their sometimes intolerable demeanor , especially when some ruffians are kept in police custody . In the beginning of the film , the audience learns that a suspect , Abdel is in a coma at hospital because he was badly injured by the cops during questioning . When they learned this , the toughest guys of these suburbs sparked off a riot . In a way , the attitude of the police helps to fuel the hate and to separate farther the gap and the incomprehension between the inhabitants of these suburbs and the police . That said , Kassovitz doesn't generalize . Not all the cops are monstrous . Check the two sequences when in the first one , a policeman tries to make the riffraff understand in a sensible manner that they can't stay on the roof of a building and the second sequence when Vinz , Hubert and Saïd are in Paris and they ask their way to a policeman who guides them in a polite way . The actors were discerningly chosen and perfectly directed . It seems that Kassovitz fostered improvisation . It was the right method to confer his film with an authentic feeling . They deliver dialogs full of slang , coarse lines and sometimes they're inaudible so you'll have to be very attentive to catch what they say . However , this drawback isn't really irritating and was surely wanted by the director to reinforce the unique spontaneity of the film . With his build and his face of ruffian , Vincent Cassel was ideally cast as the stubborn Vinz while his two main partners are amazingly true to life . And there are some famous French actors who have cameos and who weren't afraid of having demeaning parts like Vincent Lindon , a drunkard or Zinedine Soualem , a sadistic cop . Kassovitz remains as objective as possible and doesn't offer solutions to solve these problems . More than ten years after it reached the streets , his films is still a topical one and the riots and violent incidents which broke out in high-risk suburbs in many French cities the last fall alas show that these tensions aren't alas ready to subside .
Bertrand Tavernier's 2004 vintage	Doctor Pierre Sézac ( Jacques Gamblin ) and his wife Géraldine ( Isabelle Carré ) a childless couple leave for Cambodgia to adopt one . When they arrive there , a real obstacle course awaits for them . Countless , various problems surface , wanderings from orphanages to orphanages amount to nothing and the courage and love of the young couple is put to a serious test . When I was in my first year at university , I remember that one of my courses was entitled reading comprehension and for my exams , the topic of this course was based on a conversation between a man and a woman who talked about this widely talked about society phenomenon that is children adoption in Southern Asia . The two protagonists particularly insisted on the testing process that parents had to go through to get their beloved one . Bertrand Tavernier confirms in images and in this harrowing story , the meandering road the Sézac couple take to satisfy their desire to adopt children . This giant in French cinema who has keep on producing varied great works for more than thirty years is a true auteur whose sincerity and commitment about a prickly topic is never questionable . Such is once again the case here with this film that is based on true facts . The difficulties , the problems which the Sézac couple comes up against may seem numerous and exaggerated . One can't help but think that there are true to life either they are of administrative source or that they involve bribery . Tavernier also pores over the problem of children adoption through the different French couples at the hotel . The adventure the Sézac couple has is their common adventure in which chance and fate can smile or leave them at any time . If one can be destabilized by the didactic even documentary side of the venture , one can't deny its strong heartfelt vibe . The background is also essential . Tavernier voluntarily chose a gritty tone and found place in his film to shake the viewer's nerves in front of Cambodgia ravaged by misery , war ( some sequences showcase some soldiers clearing of mines a part of the country ) , shameful traffics which constitute a serious break to child adoption . " Holy Lola " is a momentous work for two reasons : Tavernier added one more worthwhile piece of work to his own Aladdin's cave and also a work destined to the mainstream to make them realize of the hard process of child adoption . All the future parents who contemplate this step should have a look at it . And not only them but all those who are fond of topnotch French cinema .
Written on the sky	After two undistinguished movies ( " Battle Hymn " and " interlude " ) , Sirk teamed up again with three actors of the fabulous quartet who made " written on the wind " a classic of the fifties . Robert Stack told once Sirk was his favorite director and Rock Hudson was never better than with Sirk with whom he made 8 movies , including some of the director's best ( " wind " " all that Heaven allows " " magnificent obsession " ) . This one was the last one they made together : it is the gloomiest of them all and its bleak black and white is downright depressing . " Tarnished angels " takes place in dark rooms in the darkest night , and the thought of Death hangs over the whole film : this dead head which suddenly bursts in the bedroom where Hudson is comforting Malone ( absolutely stunning ) , the black birds , flying in the sky on the fateful morning , the coffin they carry on a desert airstrip . In Sirk's follow-up , " a time to love and a time to die " Death will be felt everywhere , not only on the battle fields , but also in Berlin in ruins : this empty street where there's only a hearse and a horse while the inhabitants are in the shelter is an exact equivalent of the scene of the coffin at dawn . He transcends melodrama with his end-of-the-world pictures . The flaming colors of the cars tearing along the oil wells road or of the clothes in " written on the wind " have given way to gray : old crates , washouts , forgotten heroes ( Stack ) , lost illusions ( romantic heroine , a reporter who is always drunk : Hudson's hair is all messed up , and people who think he was a limited inexpressive actor should watch the scene when he " writes " Stack's epitaph in front of his boss and his colleagues . Dorothy Malone , too , found her two best parts in Sirk's movies before ending up as Sharon Stone's lover in " basic instinct " ( her reappearance was the only interest of that flick , at least to my eyes , even if it only were for three or four minutes ) . We feel that Sirk is missing Zarah Leander , his German star of the thirties and that , among all the American actresses he worked with , Malone was certainly the one who remained him the most his lost chanteuse . Although she won the actress for the part of Marylee , her portrayal of LaVerne is subtler , deeper , less clichéd and more moving . Stack is as good as in " wind " : he could not have a child in the former and there was this genial short scene of a kid riding a clockwork horse ; in the latter there's this sublime sequence of his boy in his little plane when his father's crate is crashing . His character is reminiscent of the heroes of the thirties , these of " heroes for sale " or " I'm a fugitive from a chain gang " , people who risked their lives for their country and who got a raw deal afterward . There's a terrifying contrast between the lugubrious atmosphere of the movie and the Mardi Gras festivities ; Sirk works with his camera the way a painter does with light , to create different effects and textures highlights and shadows , recalling sometimes his German era , filming the shadow of the blinds on a face like he used to do in such works as " la Habanera " ( 1937 ) . Like this ? Try this . . . . . . " The gypsy moths " , John Frankenheimer ( 1969 )
Melodrama prototype .	Douglas Sirk is known as the melodrama man , but all his movies are not exactly what we call melodrama : " All that heaven allows " and " tarnished angels " are closer to realist stories ; " A time to love and a time to die " transcends melodrama to become a tragedy . Three major movies seem to belong to the genre : " written on the wind " " imitation of life " and of course this one . " Magnificent obsession " has a plot so unlikely , so incredible that , in the hands of a lesser talent , it would have gathered nothing but horse - laugh : The beginning of the film is a succession of coincidences and combinations of circumstances so improbable you wonder whether Sirk will get away with it . Against all odds , he succeeds in this absurd task . Someone tells the hero that the one who devotes his life to others has chosen the rocky road , someone has been crucified for that . But once he has begun , this task will obsess him , and it's a magnificent obsession . So the selfish hero will undo the harm he's done . It's a double feat : Hudson's struggle is moving and Sirk , who goes for broke , pulls off this extravaganza with panache .
Excellent	Excellent , very underrated suspense where Audrey Hepburn shows how mucheclectic she was from psychological dramas ( children's hour ) to musicals ( My fair lady ) to thrillers " in camera " like this absorbing exciting " wait until dark " . Directed by Terence YOung ( who directed the best James Bond bar one - Goldfinger - ) , it never gives the feeling of watching a filmed stage production and however it was a play in the first place . Hepburn is wonderful as the courageous blind woman who ' s got to fight against killers ( and she gets fine support from Richard Crenna and Alan Arkin ) in her apartment . Influenced by " rear window " , it's perhaps not as good as Hitch's classic , but it rises to the occasion . The scene when Hepburn shoots out ( and smashes ) all the lights is mind-boggling . So is the fridge's terrifying sequence which climaxes the movie . Every cine buff fond of suspense deserves - and must see - " Wait until dark " Sit down and get some scares . . . in the dark of course .
A saint in Hell .	Those were the dark hours of the Occupation in France . The sinister Gestapo was torturing prisoners - some of whom were still almost children-in a jail where a German priest was trying to ease their terrible pain . This man was a Franciscan Brother ( hence the title ) but he was above all a man for whom all are brothers . This is German actor Hardy Kruger's lifetime part . He gives a restrained performance but he makes us feel his sympathy for these suffering people . As he is fluent in French , it's his voice we hear in this French movie . Claude Autant - Lara , who had tackled a highly topical subject at the beginning of the sixties ( conscientious objection , " tu ne tueras point " ) , made another courageous movie with " le Franciscain de Bourges " : the French audience , twenty years after WW2 , was perhaps not ready to learn that among devils there might have been good men . This is a true story . It was filmed where the events happened . Hardy Kruger refused any fee for his extremely moving part of Alfred , a saint in a living hell .
Ludwig , Wagner and Sissy .	Helmut Kautner's biopic of the famous king was dwarfed by Visconti's four-hour mammoth magnum opus ( 1972 ) . It did not deserve to fall into oblivion though . Of course people will complain because the writers passed over in silence the fact that this king was gay . In 1954 , what else could they do ? When they filmed Tchekovsky's life , they did the same . Some people will say that Helmut Kautner took the easy way out : he made Ludwig's so called impossible love for Sissi the reason why he did not marry . Visconti's Elizabeth was not fooled when she ironically asked her cousin : " you want me to be your impossible love ? " And however , I like this film : there are beautiful romantic scenes between OW Fisher and Ruth Leuwerick : " look at those clouds up above , they seem very near from each other but they are actually faraway " or " down there , it's eternity " . The pacifist side of the king is highlighted , which made him a man ahead of his time ; what could such a man do in the company of such wolves as Bismarck and the other politicians of the era . Klaus Kinski - nowadays the most famous actor of the movie - appears as Otto and he makes each of his three scenes count : particularly impressive is that scene when he feels the first effects of the madness : Visconti's Otto is rather bland by comparison . But the reason why you should give this movie a chance is its cinematography : the colors are splendid indeed , sometimes luminous when Sissy urges Ludgwig to remain pure , sometimes dark under an ominous sky when the king's megalomania knows no bound anymore . Dig that scene where the king and Sissy's sister Sophie are all alone in an opera theater and the girls breaks down crying " I cannot stand that anymore " . Wagner's music enhances all the film and Visconti's and Kautner's treatments are not that much different as far as the musician is concerned . At about the same Time , Ernst Marischka began his Sissy saga .
not the Tarzan you think of . . . . . .	SPOILERS Edgar Rice Burroughs's famous character was adapted thousand of times for the screen til one's thirst is quenched , notably during the thirties and the forties by Hollywood . Its productors made Tarzan one of the most successful cinema characters . Several years later , Hugh Hudson decided to make a more ambitious version of the monkey-man and it's a more natural , more wild and more down-to-earth Tarzan that he gives away here . Hudson skilfully avoids the clichés that you usually grant to Tarzan such as his famous scream or his friendly pet , Cheetah . Not only , are we far from the designed and invented character made by Hollwood but we are also far from the film set used to make his stories . The movie was partly made in Africa ( more precisely in Cameroon ) . The movie introduces two obvious parts : the first one which takes place in the jungle where Tarzan lives among his adoptive friends , the apes and considers himself as their lord . But he ignores his real origins . The second one in England where Tarzan discovers the English society . Ian Holm epitomizes the link between the two parts and Hudson avoids all that could make the movie falls into the ridiculous thanks to a clever screenplay . Indeed , Holm teaches Lambert basic rules of manners so as to behave correctly in the English society and the result works . Moreover , in the second part , no-one ever laughs at Tarzan and he's even really appreciated . As far as the end is concerned well it's a both bitter and happy end . Happy because Tarzan comes back to the jungle and meets again his adoptive close relatives . But bitter too , because this homecoming means that the Greystoke line won't be ensured and is condemned to disappear . . . Christophe Lambert finds here , his first ( and last ? ) great role . Sadly , he'll never equal the achievement of his performance in this movie and he'll play in poor and insipide action movies . Nevertheless , as I said previously , a clever screenplay , a performance of a rare quality , some impressive natural sceneries ( both the jungle and the English country and we get a gorgeous movie . It's also an excellent rereading from a popular novel . So why is it only rated barely ( ) ?
How could she bridge the gap ?	" Die Letzte Brücke " was the movie which put Maria Schell on the map : it is probably her best part : emotion to the fore , sentimentality kept to economical levels - which was not always so in her later films . Her portrayal of a German doctor kidnapped by Yougoslavian partisans is unforgettable . At the beginning , the young doctor is an earnest and dedicated but a bit superficial woman , who does not ask herself any questions . She never talks about politics with the staff in the hospital . When she falls into the enemy's hands , she's not certain of having God on her side anymore . Her heroism will not come overnight , it will be a long time before she discovers the absurdity of war . Admirable sequences : the old grandma , giving a dead's shoes to the doctor , to help her relieve the suffering world ; the German prisoner , who refuses medical cares because " she's a traitress " ; the finale , with Schell crossing " the last bridge " to bring medicine to the " others " . Barely ten years after the end of WW2 , it was a courageous movie , coming from the Federal Republic of Germany . Although it occasionally lapses into melodrama ( notably the doctor's fiancé ) , it's still relevant today .
They were meant for each other , but . .	Whadaya say Jean Delannoy ain't high culture ? This is Jean-Paul Sartre ! Will this director suffer for eternity from the reputation he got from the " nouvelle vague " clique ? At least an user without bias has already written to tell his admiration for " les jeux sont faits " . " Les jeux sont faits " is an unfairly almost unknown movie in France and elsewhere , sometimes by people who praise such works as " heaven can wait " ( 1943 and 1978 ) , " a matter of life and death " ( Powell , 1946 ) , " une simple formalité " ( Tornatore , circa 1998 ) and even " the sixth sense " ( 1999 ) . Two young people ( Micheline Presle and Marcel Pagliero ) come back from the realm of the Dead because they " were meant for each other " . Their love must overcome everything or else they will have to go back . It might seem easy , but they had not reckoned on there being a society . . . The others . . . In " huis clos " , there's Sartre's famous sentence " l'enfer c'est les autres " ( = hell comes from the other ones " ) She comes from a wealthy milieu , he's a working-class hero . Too many things come between them . " Les jeux sont faits " , from the very beginning . A good editing , an intriguing " paradise " ( ? ) without a single religious touch , the person who facilitates the communication between the two worlds being an ordinary secretary ( a wonderful Marguerite Moreno ) . And the last picture is poetic and , what might seem strange in Sartre's world , leaves some hope to the viewer . Outside the already mentioned works , people who like this should catch " Orphée " ( Jean Cocteau , 1950 ) and , above all , " huis clos " ( Jacqueline Audry , one of the very few women who were directors at the time , 1954 ) .
their mummy's dead . . .	When I checked this film on IMDB , I was surprised . Not by the popular rating , 6 . 7 out 10 is a good mark but by the number of votes . Only , 368 votes ! How can such a good movie by largely ignored by the public ? Peter Mullan in the world of British cinema is especially known as an actor . We remember his performance in the trendy " Trainspotting " ( 1996 ) where he acted the role of a heroin supplier . With " Orphans " , he decided to display his gifts as a director . He chose wisely . His real debut movie is , by any standards a remarkable one . However I am obliged to recognize that for his first direction , the place of the action which the city of Glasgow in Scotland has nothing welcoming . Indeed , most of its inhabitants are narrow-minded or unpleasant . I read a few reviews about Mullan's film and all of them had said that Glasgow's inhabitants are really like this . If it is true , truth is stranger than fiction . But also Mullan for his first directing chose a tough topic : what can be the childrens ' reactions following the death of their mother ? To answer this question , the filmmaker divided his movie in 4 individual parts . Each one focuses on one of the 4 main characters . Thus , we can say the following answer to the quoted question : either with violence ( John , the college boy who tries to prove himself as a hard man ) either with obstinacy ( Thomas , the holier-than-thou chief mourner who wants everything to be perfect for their mother's funeral ) . As for the two others , Michael and Sheila , they feel especially lost . What Mullan tries to reveal to the spectator is that these reactions are necessary because this painful hardship represents for them the definitive transition in adulthood and maturity . The very last sequence shows the three brothers and the disabled sister together and they seem more united . " Orphans " is a movie that swings between humor and poignancy , violence and calm with ease . Moreover , the moment when the roof of the church is torn off by the wind gives the film a little surrealist air . In short , it easily ranks among the best British movies of the nineties and it deserves to be better known . At last , given the success of " the Magdalene sisters " in 2003 , Peter Mullan is well away to become one of the finest British directors of these last years .
Schoodays were the best days of our life .	This movie was made for all these who feel nostalgic for their schooldays : an insert at the beginning of the movie tells us so . . So it may have been , and if so then , it magnificently succeeds in its purpose . Pierre Very , the scenarist , worked wonders here . Saint-Agil is a boarding - school where three pals have formed a secret society " les chiche-capons " ( I do not even know what it means in my first language ) . One of them is writing a novel which takes the three boys in a world of adventures in Mexico . And there are the teachers ; one of them ( Von Stroheim ) is an alien , probably a German , although he teaches English , and the others do not like him very much . We are in 1938 , and there are hints at war ( " A war is always against the aliens " , a rather dumb teacher says , forgetting the numerous civil wars ) . Pierre Very astutely mixed two stories which seem independent but which will become one towards the ending ( think Hitchcok's " family plot " ) . One concerns the students : two of them disappear , where have they gone ? A mysterious postcard is sent from America . The other deals with the teachers : one of them falls in the stairs : was it an accident , did he jump , or was he pushed ? It's all the more puzzling as the fuses have blown at the same time . And why is there a fork on the floor ? Spoiler : Von Stroheim's presence is very moving . In his part of a misunderstood teacher , he almost outshines Michel Simon , no small feat . The ending , which sees this ( German ? ) teacher join the secret society can be interpreted as a plea for friendship , not only between adults and adolescents but also between nations . End of spoiler " Les disparus de Saint-Agil " , released at the time when the French cinema was at its absolute peak , is one of Christian-Jaque ' s finest films : he tried to repeat the formula ( two stories , a children and an adult one ) in " l'assassinat du père noel " ( 1941 ) which was written by Very too , but it was not as convincing . " Les anciens de Saint-Loup " ( 1950 ) , although featuring different characters , was supposed to be a sequel to " les disparus . . " but the magic was gone and although it retains some charm in the first part , it's finally a disappointment .
pickpockets of the Parisian unite	The year is 1959 and a bunch of aspiring filmmakers reunited under the sign of the New Wavelet plans to rejuvenate French cinema . To achieve their goals , one of the advocated solutions is to shoot their works in the street on natural location . One of their darlings Robert Bresson has the same idea but with one major difference : he's a whole better than any of them including François Truffaut and Jean Luc " God Ard " and his contribution to the Seventh Art is much more valuable than theirs ' . After having told a true story of an escape lived by a prison inmate during the Second World War with " Un Condamné à Mort s'est Echappé " ( 1956 ) , Bresson chose for his next film to shoot the everyday life of a pickpocket . In an interview from 1960 , Bresson cleverly noticed that the 1956 film began in prison and ended in liberty whereas it's the contrary for " Pickpocket " . Keeping a narrative process from " Journal d'Un Curé De Campagne " ( 1951 ) which is to show a written page from a textbook read by a voice-over while the following sequence shows us the action , the filmmaker introduces to us Michel's career as a thief , the techniques and processes employed by a pickpocket to steal his victims ' wallets and watches and important characters who try to make him come back to the " normal world " like Jeanne . From the beginning , Michel is a typical " Bressonian " hero . It means that he lives on the fringe of society but unlike other Bresson heroes , his intellectual ideas prompt him to claim his stake and he's proud not to be part of the crowd whereas other characters in Bresson's work become unconventional figures in spite of them like the young priest in " Journal d'Un Curé De Campagne " or dropouts such as Yvon later in " l'Argent " ( 1983 ) . As he says : " a few superiors human beings should find themselves above the laws " . In another extent , the notions of sin and redemption run throughout the work until the very last sequence which is likely to make many viewers ' imagination work . While I'm on this last point , Bresson never wanted the viewers to be lazy in front of his films but wished to arise stimulation among them . It means that you can think what you want about Michel's dangerous life and the famous last sequence . Bresson said that his film was especially a film of looks and gestures and he was right to think it . The sequences dealing with stealing are shot with care and in a somewhat distant manner . One of the filmmaker's goals was also to make us feel the loneliness which traps a thief . On this point , Michel is locked in his convinced theories and his resolute actions which means he can't listen to the people who are his contrary and he wanders all alone in the streets of Paris . His solitude is enhanced by the cramped attic in which he lives . Then Bresson perfectly managed to capture the feeling invoked when he robs someone and he well fulfilled his pledges . When Michel goes into action , a feeling of danger mingled with pleasure invades the screen and it is doubled when Michel " works " with other professional thieves . The apex finds itself in the station where all these thefts end up forming a dance . These key sequences as well as Jeanne's , the police officer's and Michel's friend Jacques attempts to make him see reason are dovetailed to give a highly-elliptical , limpid film . Like a good proportion of Bresson's works , it improves with each extra viewing . A documentary about this film was shot a few years ago in which the models talked about their roles in Bresson's magnum opus and how they changed their lives forever . Martin Lasalle currently lives in Mexico city and he's not the cold , young man one could expect to see . He's charming and funny .
A vampire's nightmare	Richard Matheson's " I am legend " is , along with " The incredible shrinking man " , his finest hour . His decline is all the more blatant in " stir of echoes " . " I am legend " features three parts ( January 1976 , March 1976 , June 1978 ) and an epilogue ( January 1979 ) . Do not let the titles fool you : it's a timeless story . As the hero in " shrinking man " is reborn and thus preserves the reader from despair , the conclusion of " legend " completely renewed the vampire tales by making man THE enemy . Man will become a legend , the one the new creatures will tell their sons and daughters when the dark comes . Man will become an old superstition . The collective unconscious . " The last man on earth " , unlike Boris Segal's " omega man " based on the same novel , is an accurate adaptation of the book . Its bleak black and white leaves Charlton Heston's urban landscapes far behind . Vincent Price gives a sober performance , and since he's often alone on the screen , is all the more moving . Whereas Boris Segal shows Heston watching " Woodstock " in a desert theater ( because he needs to see crowds , he who ' s on his own in LA ) , and thus horribly dates his movie , Ubaldo Ragona shows Neville watching amateur films of his dear past ( his daughter's birthday party , scenes , unlike " Woodstock " , anybody can relate to . ) . He carries on with a flashback , which begins with Neville . . . . filming what we've seen before . An emotionally powerful sequence shows Neville watching the fires which are burning in the dark night : one of them is his daughter's dead body ( " there're my children too , a soldier says ! ) Too few people people know " last man . . . " . If you've read the book , do not think twice . And if you've seen the movie , you've got to read the novel .
Adventure likes darkness	One of the 30 ( or 31 depending on whom you ask ) produced by the Continental German firm during the occupation days in France ; the most prominent example is HG Clouzot's " le Corbeau " . Why such a title ? ( Man from London ) at a time when the German censorship was adamant : no hints at England ! It was the reason why " L Assassin Habite au 21 " was filmed in Paris whereas the novel took place in London ! All that is " English " is the weakest link in Decoin's movie : the so-called English ( Detective Mollison , Mr and Mrs Brown , Teddy ) do not sound English at all , besides they never say a single word in their would be first language . The censorship was probably satisfied : anyway they could have called the film ' the man from Paris " , the man in question being very Parisian Jules Berry . But the movie is an exceptionally good film noir . A foggy atmosphere recalling Marcel Carné's " Quai des Brumes " ( 1938 ) , a chanteuse wailing " Adventure likes Darkness . . . " , and a Gabinesque character masterfully played by Fernand Ledoux . Maloin has been working all his life for 2 , 500 measly Francs a month . One day he finds a case full of dough , after watching a gangland killing . " I ' d have to work a hundred years to make that ! " he says . He could send his son to " Polytechnique " , he could take his wife to the Côte d'Azur . He could escape from the third-rate position he holds in the harbor . He could leave behind his mean brother-in-law who's wearing suit and tie and is working in a bank ( and thinks he's got it made ) . But Maloin has an uneasy conscience : the film begins with lines of the Bible : " there are two roads : the wide one leads to perdition , the narrow one is not easy to follow , but it leads to happiness " . His colleague always reads some pages of the good book before going to sleep . A desperate movie , where man finds it hard to make ends meet , but where you meet wistful prostitutes called Camelia in the low dives and generous human beings : the owner of the hotel , who does not want any money from Mrs Brown , the detective who tries to help the sinner . Decoin's follow-ups " La Fille du Diable " and " Non Coupable " won't feature such characters . Only darkness .
A fairy tale in reverse . .	Two brothers ; one of them , after his mother's death ( she died during the birth ) is taken in by a rich man , the other has to manage . But things will not turn out as expected . The movie is a long flashback , Enrico's somber meditation on his young brother's fate , whom he only saw sporadically . There are a lot of holes in the plot , probably the weakest link of an unusual film . Mastroianni and Perrin ( hardly 21 ) give strong performances which allow the movie to avoid pathos and melodrama . They are given strong support by madame Sylvie , as their grand-mother . What will strike you in Zurlini's film is the total absence of happiness , in the world which has forgot what it is to be happy : even the scene at the restaurant where the two boys invite their grandma is downright depressing ; later the money the old lady gives to her grandson leaves a bitter taste in the mouth . All the scenes in the hospital are harsh , and may repel some . It was the second time Zurlini and Perrin had teamed up , after " la ragazza con la valiglia " . The last time , in 1976 , was the making of their masterpiece ( Zurlini : director ; Perrin : producer and actor ) " Il deserto dei Tartari " from Buzatti's eponymous novel . " Cronica familiare " is a movie that deserves to be watched , unless you're down in the dumps .
A woman's story	This is one of Audrey Hepburn's finest performances . With a lesser talent , the three parts would not hang together well . One must notice she is given strong support by Dame Peggy Ashcroft and Peter Finch . 1 . The community : the depiction of the life in the convent is depicted as no one did before and no one would do after ( with the exception of Alain Cavalier's " Therese " ) . The documentary side is absolutely absorbing and even Hepburn sometimes becomes a walk on . But we feel that this clever woman - a scientist at that - is not prepared to accept such inhuman obsolete rules ( " you're not in the mold " would say surgeon Finch ) . There is a strange analogy between the rules of the community and military induction and life ; in the contemporary Huston's " heaven knows M . Alison " , Mitchum and Deborah Kerr noticed how a marine's and a nun's life were not that much different . The soldiers and the nuns are asked to forget their memories , their past , their clothes , that is to say to cease to be a human being to become part of a group which demands everything . And I do not even mention the haircut , the humiliations ( prostration is an exact equivalent of the military push-ups ) which verge on masochism ( self flagellation ) . I would go as far as a nun's life is harder than a squaddie's cause the latter can make friends with the others , there is a camaraderie which is forbidden in the religious group . 2 . The Congo episode , filmed on location , features splendid landscapes . This is another step in Sister Luke's evolution . She discovers there's a world outside the community , and mainly she discovers man as a surgeon , an unbeliever and a bachelor at that ! Both are workaholics and the doctor feels that Gabrielle was not born to lead a life which demands such a loss of a sense of self . 3 . Back in Belgium , where WW2 breaks out , Sister Luke does not know where she stands anymore . Her father's death reveals a much deeper crisis : she can longer work in the hospital , where German soldiers are everywhere . In Africa , she forgave the native who beat to death one of her mates because he was a superstitious crude human being . But in a world gone mad , there's no place for the traditional moral . Joining the Resistance is the only way out . The last pictures magnificently convey the feeling of how far from the pure spiritual concern Gabrielle is now .
Welcome to the hotel	" Safe in hell " what a title ! When you watch it , you will agree that the title was thoroughly justified . It was hard to be a hero ( or a heroine ) in Wellman's brilliant movies of the thirties : from the wild boys of the street to Lilly Turner , they all got a raw deal . Gilda leaves a macho world to wind up in another macho world even more awful than the one she left behind . The movie is short ( about 70 minutes ) and there are only two " happy " scenes in the whole story : the " wedding " , a peak of romanticism and restrained emotion , and the short moment when the lovers meet again , a scene very Borzagesque ( there's a similar scene in " street angel " when Janet Gaynor asks the cop for one hour to say goodbye to the one she loves ) . As for the rest , it's a ruthless depiction of hateful males who only know one rule : theirs . The arrival of Gilda in this seedy place could only be filmed in the pre - code Hayes days : those men salivate like Pavlov's dogs , getting an eyeful as Gilda comes up the stairs . Like Tom in " heroes for sale " , Gilda wants to keep her promise ; like him she gave everything ; Tom hits the road and becomes a tramp ; Gilda's fate will be more terrible than his . Another unusual melodrama by one of the past masters of the American cinema of the thirties / forties .
Incompreso	It was not the first time Luigi Comencini had tackled childhood ( and it would not be the last ) : " Incompreso " was very moving and unforgettable ; " Pinocchio " was very different from Disney's cartoon ; later in the eighties he would transfer , with great talent , De Amicis's " Cuore " , then redo " Marcellino pan y vino " . Comencini is THE poet of childhood , whose reputation is much greater in France than in his native Italy . Here all the movies I mention above plus " lo Scopone Scientifico " and his " Casanova " are considered art house cinema . Eugenio is a normal sensitive child . He's got a rather rich family but he is a burden for them . The child passes from hand to hand : the parents who both want to start over with another partner , the grandparents who are leaving for Australia , the others who are chic mean bourgeois . . . That a friend of the family leaves the boy alone in the country is actually what the family unconsciously wants to do ! While they are searching for the boy , all the flashbacks - Comencini displays less skill than he would do in " Cuore " however ; besides his cast is weaker - show how selfish adults can become . In direct contrast to that , the director introduces a working class family where the boy finds some comfort thanks to his pal , some kind of Italian Gavroche . That the family should be more interested in the new-born calf than in an unfortunate child who slowly moves away as nobody notices it is not surprising and is still relevant in 2007 . As a teacher , I ' ve sometimes met this kind of child . They are well fed , wear smart clothes , own tons of toys , so they should not be miserable . Luigi Comencini died this year ; it was a major loss for the Italian cinema .
Plenty of room at the Red Inn ! Such a lovely place ! Such a lovely face !	" L'Auberge rouge " has recently been restored , and the copy I saw was wonderful . The pictures are glittering black and white . The subject was not new : the inn where you take your life in your hands when you enter ; such a sinister place was a permanent feature of the FRench melodramas of the nineteenth century . After all , Hichcock's " psycho " belongs to THAT tradition too , as the Eagles ' song " Hotel California " or horror farce " Motel Hell " do . The precedent user wrote that Fernandel and Autant-Lara were at odds during the filming but I do not think that's because he's upstaged by Carette and Françoise Rosay . Actually " l'auberge rouge " was Autant-Lara at his most anti-clerical : the scene when Rosay and Fernandel use a " GRille à Chataignes " ( chesnuts grate ? ) as a confessional grille is sheer genius ; many of the scenes may have inspired Luis Bunuel for " la Voie Lactée " and particularly " Phantom of LIberty " a whole segment of which features an inn , monks and vicious things . The problem lies in the fact that such an admirable actor as Fernandel did not fit Autant-Lara's bill ( or fitted the bill too well ) . Fernandel ' s acting is so natural , so strong that he throws the movie off balance . He has an obvious tendency to go in the opposite way : his monk is full of joie de vivre , of bonhomie . Whatever we may think of religion , it's impossible not to side with him . Black humor is everywhere : from the dead body hidden inside a snowman to the travelers ' horrible fate - which I will not reveal of course - , from a monkey lost in the snow arrested by the gendarmes to Rosay gently warning her guests about to leave her place : " you'll find the convent easily ! You cannot get the wrong way ! on the right , you can hear the wolves howl , and on the left you can hear the torrent flowing : it's the precipice ! " The snowy landscapes ( amazing studio work ) are dazzling . Autant-Lara's anti-clericalism ( already present in " douce " and " le diable au corps " ) which came to the fore in " l'auberge rouge " muted in the sixties : " Tu ne tueras point " , his accursed work , showed a young man refusing to be drafted because of his religious beliefs ; and " Le Franciscain de Bourges " was the story of a priest , living like a saint in the Nazi hell .
Teatime on the North West bound train . .	All that you expect from an adventure yarn is present in this absorbing film , often filmed on location in the splendid landscapes of India . A top-notch cast , with extremely great actors who survive their sometimes cardboard character and make them endearing : K . Moore , the military man with a good dose of humanity , L . Bacall , the widow of a physician who tries to carry on her late husband's task in her way , W . H . White , more British than ever , Herbert Lom , the baddie you love to hate , Ursula Jeans , the chic lady who displays courage and compassion . Plus IS Johar , as Gupta , whom the children will adore . A railroad track movie , as there are plenty of road movies . Never a dull moment , plenty of suspense and good directing by Jack Lee Thompson . Best scenes - there are plenty of them but this is my favorite - : the travelers stop in a station where a train full of dead bodies is waiting for them . The flies and the vultures are here too . The governess finds a survivor : a little baby ; they will use a glove as a feeding bottle . Thoroughly enjoyable .
money is the root of evil	" L'Argent " is Robert Bresson's very last film and a piece of work that went through a lot of financial problems to see the light of day . It was dismissed by many producers before being finally taken in hand by the Ministry of the Arts . At that time , Jack Lang was the ministry and his daughter served as a " model " for Bresson in the film where she is Yvette , Yvon's wife . Sourced from a short story by Léon Tolstoï , " l'Argent " is first the assessment of a downward spiral for the main hero of the film , Yvon . Because he was given a forged note , this domestic oil delivery man will be caught in a chain of unfortunate events which will see him jailed , losing his cute , little daughter and wife before turning into a murderer . Through his decay , all forms of dishonesty , cruelty , injustice will be stated with money at their core , particularly in the first half of the film . Money is used for rewarding cowardice ( the photograph who rewards his employee Lucien for his false evidence ) , for buying people's silence ( Norbert's mother who gives the photograph's wife money to compensate her ) and more generally , money is a God that makes Yvon's fate take a tragic dimension and drives a cruel , unfair world . Its depiction is a perfect opportunity for Bresson to let his sparse , cold , neutral cinematographic writing shine . The more the film goes on , the more these epithets prevail with an accumulation of close-ups of objects , audacious elliptical sequences , a tightened editing and deliberately bland models who recite their texts and don't " act " it . Bresson's minimalist approach of this tragic story and harsh society amounts to a limpid harmony that inevitably brings an unshakable emotion and it's important to note down the moment when Yvon is put up by the old lady . These sequences are like lulls in Yvon's grisly fate and it's impossible to remain indifferent to the old lady's dreary way of life or when she's offered a few hazelnuts by Yvon . There's even a glimmer of hope when she pronounces the words : " I would forgive to the rest of the world " . It's true that Bresson's highly elliptical , straightforward style will leave many viewers baffled as there is no psychology or action but if you're sensitive to his unspectacular directing , you will realize that he pushed his art to the extreme to better get the audience involved in Yvon's woes . You can watch it only once but it will forever stay in your mind .
The last shore	The French title is " le dernier rivage " ( the last shore ) The intellectuals dismiss this movie in France and I've always thought they were wrong . Ava Gardner had never been better with the eventual exception of Huston's " night of the iguana " . My favorite part is the central one : one of the soldiers tries to find the cause for the strange Morse signals . He crosses bleak dead San Francisco harbor ( the camera takes prodigious high angle shots of him , making us share his loneliness and his hope against hope ) Hope that was to be short-lived ! What a symbol , this equivalent of a bottle thrown into the sea ! So few special effects , ans so much emotion . Stanley Kramer's peak .
The film belongs to Maria Casarès .	Till 1950 , Robert Bresson used professional actors . This explains why those previous movies are much more accessible - and thus generally overlooked by the " true " RB connoisseurs , this naive audience who is still thinking that French cinema did begin with him ; this mindless belief was fueled by the director himself whose contempt for his colleagues was notorious . . . And like it or not , It's one of his colleagues , Marcel Carné , who provided Bresson with his star Maria Casarès , who was featured in the absolute chef-d'oeuvre of our French cinema " Les Enfants Du Paradis " . She played the part of Natalie and was not overshadowed by Arletty , which was quite a feat ! In " les Dames . . . " , Casares was extraordinary : in her last scenes , when she spits her hate , her contempt and when she savors her vengeance as she says : " You've married a hooker ! I had you marry a hooker ! " , she mesmerizes her audience . After her lover had left her , she really became a spider spinning her web in which the two women and her ex would be caught up . Jean Cocteau wrote the dialog . Maria Casarès would become one of his favorite actresses : " Orphée " and " Le Testament d'Orphée " .
Die Dinge	Michael Haneke is one of these directors who have a style of their own , a world where it's sometimes dangerous to tread , in a nutshell he's an auteur . He studies his characters like an entomologist : no compassion , no despair , no dramatization , no complacency , but an icily impersonal camera which searches the background and focuses on the things ( die Dinge ) . The events he depicts are so horrible , so unthinkable that only a very austere treatment can do them justice , so to speak . Close shots are given over to a bowl of corn flakes , a cash register , a spinning record , you name it . Is it because Haneke's afraid of the most awful depths of the human being that he often films fingers , hands , legs , feet and even an open mouth at the dentist's . And when we finally see the faces , they do not reflect what's going on in their feverish brains . It's no coincidence if the second part mainly consists of destroying the things , " these sings that you own and that ends up owning you " , as Brad Pitt says in Fincher's " fight club " . This is a complete destruction , because the whole family , who's about to commit suicide wants to erase every memory , every trace of their very life . A distant relative of Louis Malle's " le feu follet " ( 1963 ) and Marco Ferreri's " la grande bouffe " ( 1973 ) as far the content is concerned , it broaches another . . . continent when it comes to the form . The last picture , an empty TV screen predicts the follow-up " Benny's video " which will be as harrowing and as disturbing than its predecessor . Caution : if you are down in the dumps , save it for another day . Like the other Haneke's works , it's a work that demands a strong stomach . It will haunt you long after the final credits have disappeared .
crash is sex	The title of my review is not meant pejoratively . " Crash " is one of these films I completely decried the first time I had watched it . Actually , I reacted like a part of David Cronenberg's fans whereas it's the kind of film that requires a second vision . So , I watched it again recently and I changed my mind about it . If before this screening I tended to put Cronenberg's opus in the place of loser and to underscore its pretentious character , now I would label it as a winner and I would substitute the mentioned epithet for dour . If my memory serves me well , " Crash " caused a lot of controversy when it reached the streets ten years ago in some countries including Great Britain . Adapted from a novel written by J . G . Ballard , I think it sharply contrasts with some of the director's precedent works . In these works , the Canadian filmmaker let his taste for bloody horror show through , especially his early films like " Shivers " ( 1975 ) or " Rabid " ( 1977 ) . However , in some of his films , he managed to shelve these excesses for a more thrifty style . I think of " Dead Ringers " ( 1988 ) . " Crash " could rank in this category . There are no bloody sequences . Anyway , it's easy to see why Cronenberg was interested in Ballard's novel . It offered him the opportunity to deepen his set of themes like the degradation of the human body and everything harmful that can happen to it but also the fusion between man and technology ( here , it's epitomized by its most trivial symbol : car ) . What's also amazing from him is that he succeeded in eschewing any didactic style to be as objective as possible . Dialogs are minimal and are mostly self-explanatory like this key cue pronounced by Vaughan : " the remodeling of human body through modern technology " . So , the main thrust of the film is that the car crash enables to boost man's sexual life . The supposedly love affair between man and the car reaches here its climax . Vaughan even goes to associate car crashes with sexual orgasms . To a certain extent , the clandestine shows in which he reproduces famous crashes constitute a way to follow for people who are unsatisfied with their sexual lives . The Ballard couple whose sexual life is reduced to a series of overnight love affairs realizes it and enjoys this dangerous game in which death could happen before the second part of this design : sexual act . Cronenberg's film goes beyond this to arouse major issues : could technology swallow man ? Can the two elements live together ? Could the latter lose his identity ? There's one sequence I find very strong . It's the one when Catherine and James go to buy a new car and Catherine has hidden her scars under an appearance made of leather and metal . As I said before , Cronenberg opted for a thrifty and sober style . This perspective is shown straight at the outset during the opening credits to the sound of a startling music . Then , the film takes a leap into a dreary universe with a metallic coldness and a gloomy cinematography that Cronenberg never tries to embellish . Relationships between man and the machine are assessed in a hard-hitting way and the characters often speak in a detached manner between themselves . Could car crashes make warm human relationships subside except through sex ? Of course , to watch such a difficult film like this one takes guts but for the ones who haven't discovered it yet , " Crash " isn't a succession of erotic sequences interspersed with crashes . It's more subtle than that and if Cronenberg chose a more straightforward approach , it's precisely to enable the audience to understand his film and to make us think about the issues he developed here . So , the first vision might leave you baffled so be prepared for a second screening .
Molinaro's best .	Molinaro's career cannot boast a lot of masterworks : most of his movies are commercial , the likes of " la cage aux folles " . But there are exceptions , notably " un témoin dans la ville " " Arsène Lupin contre Arsène Lupin " , and mainly " la mort de Belle " . Adapted from Georges Simenon , " la mort de Belle " is a psychological detective story , with a topflight cast , including the excellent Jean Desailly , Alexandra Stewart , Yves Robert and Monique Mélinand . The subtle dialog was written by famous playwright , Jean Anouilh . A young American student ( Stewart ) lives with a forty-something couple , a teacher ( Desailly ) and his wife . The gorgeous girl is strangled and the teacher is the main suspect . Overnight , his private life is violated , plain for all to see . Using cleverly the flashbacks , Molinaro reveals secrets , and shows that what is left unsaid may have dreadful consequences . Despised by everybody , from his ( vice - ) principal to the girl's mother , the teacher does not know where he stands anymore , and tragedy awaits around the corner . . A gripping drama , that will keep you interested till its last pictures . If you should only see one Molinaro movie , this is definitely the one to choose .
Enclosure / A God-forsaken world	" L'enclos " is completely forgotten today . A demanding , ambitious uncompromizing work , it was completely overshadowed by the so-called masterpieces of the French nouvelle vague . And however " l'enclos " remains unique ; it's not an entertaining movie , it's not " Hart's war " or " the great escape " . It's something different , terribly different . In a concentration camp , a kapo asks one of the prisoners to kill one of his mates . One of the officers saw the whole scene : it gives him a spooky idea : why not repeat it with two other prisoners , a French Jew and a German political prisoner ( such a character was not that much obvious in the early sixties , and might explain the commercial failure of the movie : only 15 years had passed since the end of WW2 ) ? . They lock both of them in an enclosure ( check the title ) and tell them that they have to fight and the survivor's life will be spared . I will not reveal what happens next because the script is very elaborated and it would be a spoiler . The two officers call that an " experiment " , they are sure that the German Aryan is bound to kill the " inferior " Jew . They make a bet . But the " result " will be totally unexpected , so unexpected that even in one of the most somber conclusions that was ever filmed , some sunlight does break through . I'm almost sure that if some producer saw this film , he would fatally think of a remake . If it made people feel like watching Gatti's work , why not ?
Marylin Monroe's last dance	It was certainly too late when Miller wrote this screenplay for his then-wife : " The misfits " can't hold a candle to such early works as " Death of a salesman " or " a view from the bridge " . It sounds contrived , it seems that Miller uses the screen as a way of washing his dirty linen in public . After Monroe's death , he would reiterate in " after the fall " . John Huston was more interested in the mustangs , they say , but his main topic-failure - takes a divergent road here . Failure is worthwhile , because through it , you can pick up the pieces and start a brand new life : Monroë and Gable heading for the setting sun . Montgomery Clift's character is a bit secret . A telephone call informs us that he must have an over-possessive mother . The main interest of the movie is not in the movie . You've got to read the movie " between the lines " . It's almost cinéma - vérité . Within the short space of five years , the three leads will have disappeared . That alone makes the movie unique and highly watchable .
Waltzing into darkness	The first thing to bear in mind is that , at the time , Michèle Morgan and Henri Vidal were the ideal French couple for sixteen-year old schoolgirls . They met when they were making " Fabiola " and they got married . Jean Grémillon and Albert Valentin do what they do best : setting a working class milieu against the bourgeois world ; the former had done " Gueule d'Amour " and " Lumière d ' Ete " , the latter had given " l'Entraineuse " and " la Vie de PLaisir " . This is the kind of " cinema-made-in-the-studio " which the Nouvelle Vague used to despise but it is this cinema which had lent credibility to the French films since the thirties . There's a striking contrast between the proles ' places ( the street , the uncle's restaurant , Etienne's bedroom , the small apartment where he thinks he ' ll lead a peaceful life with the woman he adores and their baby girl ) and the excessive luxury of the Voisin-Larive mansion . THe construction of the movie can disconcert the audience cause the director takes us from one world to the other one , without giving any explanations . MIchèle Morgan is the only link between them and it is only little by little that we discover the truth . Etienne ( Henri Vidal ) is a good guy , in the grand tradition of Jean Gabin's parts of " Quai des Brumes " or " Le Jour se Lève " . It is often mooted that Henri Vidal was a limited actor but his naiveté , his human warmth and his handsome smile work wonders here . His hope is to marry Irene who told him she was the Voisin-Larive's chamber maid . Irène ( Morgan ) is married to a rich bourgeois with whom she has no sexual relations . For him , she is a marvelous toy , a statue or a masterpiece , something decorative you can show when you throw a party . When Irene tells him she is pregnant ( by Etienne ) he does not care , he sends her to Switzerland . " I do not need any descendants " he says in a terrifying neuter voice . Jacques , the rich husband is some kind of monster . He is not evil , and the fact that he does not need children is downright disturbing , cause the bourgeois ' s dream is par excellence a dynasty , a boy who will continue his work . But this one seems selfishness itself . When Etienne - who still believes Irene is the chamber maid of the house - tells him his wife is pregnant by him , he finds it rather funny and does not give the game away . Jeanette , the less-than - attractive girl in love with Etienne , is the rejected person we had met in " Pattes Blanches " ( 1948 ) . Played by the same actress ( Arlette Thomas ) , she epitomizes hope against hope , she is a Cinderella whose pumpkin never turns into a horse-drawn coach . Both those heroines ( Jeanette and " Pattes Blanches " ' s young hunchback girl ) have a similar fate . Both think that a dress can make the job done , both were born to cry . This cinema-in-the-studio which I mention is often dazzling : there's a sublime shot of a prostrated desperate Morgan while a train is whistling and a hearse down there is crossing the street , a scene to rival the best of Sirk ( there's a similar scene in " a time to love and a time to die " ) . Those carols ( " Gloria in Excelsis Deo " ) become something as obscene as the dazzling Xmas decorations ( one finds the same refinement in the final scenes in the castle in " Pattes Blanches " ) when a child is dying . Those bourgeois , dancing in their luxury mansion , waiting for the clock which's going to strike twelve , is really a sickening sight . " There are so many ways to die " Irene says to Jeanette , and then , back home , she begins her waltz into darkness .
Once upon a time . .	It's the only Carné-Prévert movie that takes place in another era , the Middle Ages . During the German occupation , it was an alibi : the Devil was meant to represent Hitler and the two lovers the Resistance . But for the people at the time , their hints at French plight were so disguised - or else , it would have been banned by the censorship - , they only saw the escapist movie which they did need . Over the years , the movie has lost some of its charms : after a brilliant introduction , the pace remains too slow and it's hard to believe that Alain Cuny and Marie Déa are eaten with desire . As always in Carné's movies , it's the supporting cast that walks out with the honors : Arletty is as splendid as ever in her androgynous beauty , and Jules Berry is ideally cast as the Devil . Though it remains inferior to " le jour se lève " and " les enfants du paradis " , " les visiteurs du soir " is a curiosity for French movies buffs . People who like it should see " l'éternel retour " , a collaboration between Jean Delannoy and Jean Cocteau . NB : " Children of paradise " also takes place in another era , the nineteenth century ; sorry .
The miracle workers	It's impossible to remain indifferent to this family's sufferings . Susan Sarandon and Nick Nolte - in spite of his fake Italian accent - give superlative performances . That moment when Nolte is crying in his stairs is one of the most harrowing desperate scene I have ever seen . What's really extraordinary is that we do not always side with the parents . Sometimes , we think they are monsters to carry on a pointless fight . Sometimes we think that maybe the nurse who reads the fairy tale as if she were reading grocery's lists might be right . Two people who did not know anything about biology ( aside from what we learn in high school ) and who become capable of arguing against leading medical experts after studying books night after night deserve our undivided attention . " Laurenzo " is not an easy movie to watch ; it's not what you would call " entertaining " . For this family , the famous sentence " life is a daily struggle " takes on a terrible meaning . Recommanded .
A cast of thousands !	Often unfairly dismissed as academic , boring and pretentious this three-hour movie is actually a delight from start to finish . A cast of thousands , including all the who's who of the fifties actors . ( the question is not : who plays in this film ? but rather who DOESN'T ? ) They're all here from Jean Marais to Micheline Presles , from Bourvil to Charles Vanel . And if it were not enough , there's also Claudette Colbert as Madame de Montespan and an unrecognizable Orson Welles as Benjamin Franklin . To top it all , famous French chanteuse Edith Piaf sings " ah ! ça ira ! ça ira ! " the revolutionary hymn , perched on the gates of Versailles . And Brigitte Bardot in a cameo ( watch out ! ) . " Si Versailles m'était conté " is an exquisite blend of footnotes of history , sound and light show and theatre de boulevard . At first sight it could be an accumulation of clichés , scenes of traditional royal life as depicted in ( not so very ) old History books for grade schools . But further acquaintance shows this : Guitry , with his Madame Tussaud-like characters transcends these clichés with gusto , wit and humor , sometimes à la Billy Wilder . There are lots of tongue-in - cheek dialogues , puns , anachronisms and students jokes . Sometimes the film verges on absurd humor : gathering Louis XVI , Marie-Antoinette , Robespierre , Chénier the poet , and scientist Lavoisier in the first days of the revolution , Guitry makes them talk about death penalty . " I wouldn't like to die on the scaffold " the king says " neither would I " all his mates answer . A voice over - there's probably the biggest use of voice-over in the history of cinema in this movie - concludes : " And yet , everybody would put his head on the guillotine ! " . The chevalier d'Eon scene predates " some like it hot " last sequence by five years ! Yes it does ! Masterfully constructed , the film ends with an auction sale , and no less than three " please remember the guide " visits ! Comic is sometimes tinged with sadness and a certain nostalgia : Louis the Fourteenth's old age echoes that of the director - who plays the part of the old king - , and the scenes with Madame de Maintenon provide the negative of the bright Montespan era . Forget history , don't be a highbrow , and you'll enjoy " Si Versailles m'était conté " !
A far cry from Marcel Pagnol .	For a lot of cine buffs , Marseille evokes the Pagnol Trilogy " Marius " ( " Marius et Jeanette , get it ? ) " Cesar " and " Fanny " . But be here now . This is 2000 , no longer the thirties . " La ville est tranquille " is a thoroughly contemporary movie , the despair of which sometimes recalling such works as " Rosetta " . Actually , it recalls in its form , Julien Duvivier's work , his movies made up of sketches particularly " sous le ciel de Paris " ( 1952 ) when all the subplots came together in an almost seamless whole . And as for despair , Duvivier's movies were pessimism flesh on the bone . Guédiguian's story is more realist , more loachesque , less melodramatic maybe less storybook or lyrical too . But that does not make a great difference : Duvivier and Kenneth Loach are influences every director can be proud of . The backbone of " la ville est tranquille " ( what an euphemism ! ) is a mother's struggle with her daughter's addiction , filmed with a realism hard to match . This is an absurd fight , because she's alone - she goes as far as prostituting herself to buy drugs-and because she actually helps her daughter in her fall . But there are a lot of subplots , most of them as absorbing as the main story : sometimes they interfere with it . The taxi driver sequences , for instance , do not seem to have a lot to do with it , but after a while a strong connection appears . And before the meeting , we already know the character : a man who ' s not found a woman who's got what it takes , he's an old bachelor whose father and mother are longing to see him settled down . these parents are the only characters that have got something of Marcel Pagnol , they are definitely people of the past , not only because they are old , but because class struggle which they championed has become a thing of the past : the sequence in the taxi when the driver sings Pottier's " l'Internationale " in several languages is revealing for that matter . Mini subplots give the movie substance : a meeting with a disquieting far right leader has a strong contemporary feel : " we like the Aliens , but we do prefer the French ( of French extraction ) . Only the bourgeois couple and its sentimental - and intellectual - problems are irrelevant . spoilers spoilers spoilers " La ville est tranquille " manages to give the audience a good dose of optimism though . one of the opening shots a young boy playing the piano in order to buy one : he's an Alien too and this vision is almost surrealist . At the very end of the movie , when the audience seems to have lost any hope , a truck brings the piano to the child prodigy who begins to play . Then a crowd ( of rejected ? ) gathers and , for a while , forgets all about its burden . end of spoilersIf there had been any doubts , this movie finally and firmly placed R . Guédiguian among the greatest , most ambitious directors contemporary French cinema has produced .
a brilliant adaptation of one of Jules Verne's best novels	" Journey to the center of the Earth " is a successful adaptation of Jules Verne's famous novel . Apart from a few weaknesses ( the love affair between Alex and his girlfriend ) , this is one of the science-fiction's highlights : awesome sceneries , stunning special effects ( the dinosaurs ) and especially an imposing performance of James Mason . The whole also introduces a touch of humor and gives a movie which Jules Verne would have probably liked .
Who's afraid of the big bad wolf ?	" Hard Candy " is a terrifying Huis Clos , a drama in camera , with only two characters on the " stage " ; few movies can say the same : " sleuth " by Mankiewicz ( 1972 ) and " Heaven knows Mr Allison " ( 1957 ) come to mind ; but their very subjects have nothing to do with " hard candy " . " Hard Candy " is about pedophilia but it's a million miles away from your average TV series . If you choose to watch it , be prepared for something you have never seen before . All you need to know is this : a fourteen-year-old girl follows a man she suspects to be a pedophile into his house where . . . The picture are not really atrocious , but the lines are . . . So terrible that the viewer often feels like putting his fingers in his ears . The work seems more European than American : the construction and the editing recall François Ozon's " Gouttes D'Eau Sur Pierres Brûlantes " and the unbearable atmosphere compares favorably with that of Haneke's " funny games " , a Haneke who would have discovered " moral " for " hard candy " is primarily a " moral " movie . " I'm all the little girls who were your preys " a girl disguised as the Little Red Riding Hood says before disappearing into nowhere . To write that Ellen Page and Patrick Wilson are outstanding is to state the obvious . So horrendous were the chances taken by the two thespians that , with any lesser talent , the result could have been disastrous . " Hard Candy " is a movie you've got to watch immediately , but be warned : you need a strong stomach , particularly if you are a man .
stranger in a strange land	Possible Spoilers . . . Launched in France in August 1989 and highly praised by French critics , " Nocturne Indien " is a peak in Alain Corneau's work . On a topic which has been used a lot in cinema or in literature , the disappearance of someone ( here a man named Rossignol is searching for one of his friends called Xavier ) , Alain Corneau made a slow but fascinating movie where he constantly holds the spectator spellbound by increasing his curiosity during all the movie . The directing is of an impeccable quality : clear , rigorous and the director favors one device : the static shots . Due to this , you could expect to see a boring and listless movie . Well , not at all thanks to the richness of the dialogs that make the plot progress and especially thanks to a gorgeous photography that contributes in creating a weird and tightened atmosphere . " Nocturne indien " was ( rightly ) awarded by an Oscar in France in 1990 for the Best Photography . On the other hand , Alain Corneau isn't only interested by the plot . He's also interested by the country where the action takes place : India . He makes us share his craze for this mesmerizing and mysterious country . The movie also enjoys a performance of a high quality ( beginning with Jean-Hugues Anglade , absolutely outstanding ) that adds to the brilliant success of this movie . Moreover , you can consider it as an allegory of life . Finally , the end of the movie leaves the spectator in a state of uncertainty : what has become of Xavier ? Is he dead ? Is he alive ? Is Rossignol Xavier ? Or maybe did he appear in the movie . . . . No matter , I can only recommend you this great movie that will haunt you for a long time after you saw it .
the being and nothingness	A photograph David goes looking for locations in the Joshua Tree area in the Californian desert with his girlfriend Katia . They don't speak the same language and the most palatable means of communication between them are gestures and looks . As soon as they arrive in this desert landscape , they bicker then reconcile each other , have sex , wander in the surroundings . And an impending , unshakable threat is just around the corner . One can feel it but one can't see it during almost all the film . . . I stand in awe for the French filmmaker Bruno Dumont who could be Robert Bresson's heir , would it be only by his minimalist approach about the writing of a film and his way of filming . His two unique works , " la Vie De Jésus " ( 1997 ) and " l'Humanité " ( 1999 ) which had a strong connection with " le Journal D'Un Curé De Campagne " ( 1951 ) revealed a new , fresh auteur who delivered a thoroughly novel vision of the cinematographic genres the two quoted films belong to . This third offering as unsettling as its two precedent partners is very close to a mix of road-movie and horror film . One thinks of the horrendous " the Texas Chainsaw Massacre " ( 1974 ) . But like his precedent efforts , Dumont won't follow the rules and will rather relinquish the codes of the genre . His experimental piece of work holds his own mark . First , there's still this palpable sense of space which he has perhaps never tapped so well here . Anyway the scenery and the landscapes of this Californian desert were ideal for him to set out his stalls . This barren place has something both startling and eerie for it could be in the first place an equivalent of the garden of Eden . The sequence in which David and Katia are all naked on the rocks make inevitably think of Adam and Eve . This is a divine vision of a world which seems forever gone . These landscapes are also repulsive because dangerous . Nothing happens in them and danger could come out at any moment . There's no real storytelling in " Twentynine Palms " like in Dumont's debut " la Vie De Jésus " . It isn't really a handicap because the filmmaker knows how to grab the audience's attention with an unconventional , courageous approach of cinematographic writing . The film includes quite numerous static shots with a painstaking work on the sound which often sounds dirty Basically , the film showcases a love between two very different characters but this love and so this fusion between them is impossible . The scratch on the 4X4 is a concrete sign of this doomed love . Then , what fascinates Dumont in this failed loving relationship is the animal side which sleeps in them . It's the filmmaker's duty to awake it and it better explodes during their wild sexual intercourse which inconveniences the audience like the scenes in the swimming pool and the motel bedroom . " Twentynine Palms " is also a typical work from Dumont because he wants the viewer to take part in his experiment . It means he wants him to arouse questions about what he can watch on the screen and especially about the main characters ' thoughts . But also , to bridge the different steps of the evolution of the film ( it would seem irrelevant to use the term " story " as there is virtually none here ) . Very simply , Dumont wants to put this crucial premise of the cinema to the forefront : a film is a link between its director and the audience and for Dumont it's up to the viewer to express his standpoint about the contents and form . " Twentynine Palms " is the antithesis of Dumont's second film , " l'Humanité " . In this whodunit , the main protagonist Pharaon De Winter was deeply affected by the woes and sorrow in which this " humanity " was steeped in but it didn't stop him from sharing their grieves . In the Dumont 2003 film , humanity is virtually absent and even constitutes a danger ( perhaps the main one ) because it breaks the fleeting harmony of the couple . Consequences could be disastrous even gruesome . It is impossible to leave this film indifferent which leaves none glimmer of hope . It could occupy a prominent place in the category of the " either you like either you hate " films and if you're tired of watching films made in a trite manner , this one is waiting for you . . . But beware ! It's better to have nerves of steel to watch this work .
Bells and banjos	The pairing of Natalie Wood and Steve McQueen was a great idea . Both are excellent and make a film which might seem trite and a bit obsolete to today's audience a winner . Natalie gets pregnant by Steve and this kind of thing was not a windfall in the sixties . Particularly if you are of Italian extraction , in a family who is not prepared to accept it and whose only way to get out of that " mess " is marriage . Remarkable scenes : The tiny flat where Natalie's mama and papa and their family live and where the TV broadcasts a deafening western . Steve meets his parents in the middle of an intense traffic . He also meets a former girlfriend who has become a colorless housewife . " She is two years younger than me " he says to a baffled Natalie . The abortionist scene : " You told me it was to be a doctor ! " Wood's humiliation is very well directed and her fit of hysterics compares favorably with that famous one in Kazan's " splendor in the grass " ( 1961 ) The luncheon in the suitor's flat , with his mother and the two ugly sisters . " It's a beautiful room " Natalie says as she tries to say something in this place where bad taste reigns . The heroine was still dreaming of Prince Charming and she wanted a wedding with bells and banjos . She will have both of them . . . . but not in the way she expected . I recommend this movie .
In the kingdom of Heaven , Duvivier reigns !	Kingdom of Heaven , what a title for a movie which takes place in a girls ' reformatory ! It has become difficult to find this Duvivier forgotten gem . It took me years and years of searching before finally laying my hands on a ebay second-hand video tape . Once more , I was stunned : in a career which spans - roughly - the first half of the twentieth century , Duvivier's works almost always appeal and they innovate too : probably influenced by Pabst ' s " Tagebuch einer Verlorenen " , " Au Royaume des cieux " predates such works as " the Magdalene sisters " by half a century ! And that's not all : Orson Welles , who was a Duvivier fan , found his " Othello " ' s Desdemona here : Suzanne Cloutier plays an unfortunate girl , in state care , who is unfairly sent to the sinister prison . Duvivier is the French master of the film noir , only equaled by Henri-Georges Clouzot . Never the Nouvelle Vague produced a single worthwhile film noir . Duvivier always painted the darker side of the human soul : his world is all wickedness , evil and despair . However in " au Royaume des Cieux " some sunlight does break through . The heroine has a lover ( Serge Reggiani ) who tries to help her escape from this living hell . A tutor ( Monique Melinand ) shows some compassion . And the priest does too . But what can they do when a head warden ( Suzy Prim ) finally sees her dreams come true when the former one - a sensitive good old lady - dies and makes way for her . Suzy Prim portrays a shrew who hates men , probably repressed sexually - a scene between her and Cloutier reaches peaks of hatred and violence - who sadistically treats her girls . And let us not forget the dog's name Goliath ( sic ) . In Duvivier's works justice is often meted out by one of these gentle animals : see also " Voici le Temps des Assassin " and " Chair de Poule " Remarkable scenes : the hunger strike , which the infamous Prim tries to break by bringing them a delicious soup ( Duvivier's camera masterfully shows the hungry faces , then the steaming pot ) ; the prisoners turning around the anarchist's dead body ( Juliette Greco ! ) ; the desolate landscapes the Police car which takes the heroine to the prison crosses ; the impending flood which will become a transparent metaphor of the fever which rises behind the reformatory walls . The two estranged lovers , whose dreams concur beyond a prison's walls . And the last picture which beats Truffaut's " les quatre cent coups " at its own game . Perhaps an optimistic world , which is unusual in Duvivier's work , since all these lost girls discover , through their mate's true love that , they can hope against hope . The cast and credits : the soundtrack consists of bells ringing louder and louder : MM Duvivier and Jeanson , hats off !
no love , no future , a desire for revenge	Iris is a young Finnish girl whose life has no horizon . She works in a match factory and still lives at her parents ' . She escapes by reading soppy love stories or by attending a dance . One night , she thinks she has found Prince Charming . But the latter reveals himself a scornful human being who has no consideration for her . Then , she is chased away by her parents and relies on her brother's generosity to put her up . But Iris didn't say her last word and she decides to prepare a plan to have a revenge on the ones who couldn't love her . In the nineteenth Century , Andersen , a Danish writer wrote a tale entitled " the little match girl " . Here , the film-maker Aki Kaurismäki kept certain elements of this tale to create in his own way , a sort of updated version . And it's a much more austere one so much that it virtually evokes Robert Bresson's cinema . This is how I perceive " the Match Factory Girl " ( 1990 ) : a cross between a modernized version of Andersen's tale and Bresson's cinema for the straight-forward style and the intense austerity in which the story bathes . Aki Kaurismäki seems to have understood that to give his movie a big dramatic intensity , ostentation and exaggeration were to be excluded . The amount ? A grievous movie which hurts where everything in the cinema writing is reduced to simplicity , nearly stillness and despair . This , to better express the dreary world in which Iris is prisoner and the wrong hopes she comes up against . Barely camera movements ( the movie nearly looks like a succession of paintings ) , sinister scenery , blue-green lighting , dumb or merciless characters blend themselves to create a universe impenetrable to happiness . To plunge more in this desolate world , Kaurismäki nearly shot a silent movie , only scattered by laconic and reduced in the extreme dialogs . But to tell the truth , dialogs are not the most important thing . Looks matter more and reveal best the characters ' thoughts and feelings . The director's sympathy towards Iris and making her put up at her brother's are the only pities he shows and his movie would be of a total blackness if there wasn't humor . A humor which acts in an ironic way : " I came to tell you goodbye . . . " . Overrall , this grave movie about the lack of love strikes right at the heart and its vision is rather difficult . If you are down in the dumps , save it for a better day . It's a short movie ( hardly an hour ) but Iris ' pale and retiring countenance stays rooted for a long time in the spectator's brain . And Kati Outinen , impressive of fragility and sensitiveness is perfect in this role .
I do not leave you for someone else , but because you do not exist anymore .	" Une étrange affaire " is Pierre Granier-Deferre's magnum opus , where he goes for broke and proves he can be brilliant . He made another important work at the beginning of the seventies " le chat " but it owed a great deal to its stars Gabin and Signoret . Here , there's a veteran , Michel Piccoli , and Gérard Lanvin , a generally unambitious actor , finds his best part . But it does not explain everything : the screenplay is very well constructed , the atmosphere stifling and the hero seems to be caught in a giant cobweb . First part depicts the fears of the employees of a department store : a new boss is about to arrive and some skivers are in a cold sweat about it . All rings true , and the whole cast is really excellent . Enter the new boss , Piccoli , who will not be the one everyone expected : he's a bon vivant and he treats Gérard , the hero , as a friend . He takes him to chic places , where the young man feels like a bull in a china shop , he gives him responsibilities and promotion is around the corner . When the future seems brighter than ever , it's actually the beginning of the end : his wife , Nina ( a lucid sensitive Natalie Baye ) , has cleverly noticed something was wrong : actually the boss and his beaming but disturbing henchman ( Jean-Pierre Kalfon ) are making her husband their thing , a slave at their beck and call . They even look into his private life , and one night , the boss even requisitions the apartment and the couple's bedroom . " You do not exist anymore " says the wife as tragedy is impending . The boss ' s method is some kind of professional fascism , which destroys all that makes a man a human being . It's all the more terrifying as the Master is always friendly , joking , smiling and even fascinating . The conclusion , which refuses the happy end will give you the jitters . A strange affair indeed . highly recommended .
A small gem	" L'Ane de Buridan " : Buridan supposedly wrote that text in the 14th century , about an ass that starves to death cause he cannot choose between two identical heaps of oats . . " to be like " l'Ane de Buridan " refers to any person who finds it impossible to make up their mind . Recently restored by " la Cinemathèque Française " with exceptionally good picture and sound , " l'Ane de Buridan " a very obscure FRench comedy is actually a little treat , a very good surprise . At a time when many films were filmed stage productions , Alexandre Ryder's movie , although first a play , takes place on the seaside , and some of his sequences seem to have been filmed on location . Georges is unable to decide between two alternatives ( the alternatives are women here ) so he says he's through with love and he heads for the seaside in the imaginary town of Saint-Solaire ( sic ) . There's the rub : on the beach , there are plenty of gorgeous women , and thus again the dilemma . . There are many witty nay insolent lines . " You are beginning to become clever " the girl says to the lady killer - whose look is not that of a lady killer anyway - . Fine depiction of a beach in the thirties at a time when only wealthy people could afford the luxury of a seaside stay ( it was 1936 before paid vacations happened in France in the wake of the Front Populaire ) , and where crazy situations abound . . . From a photographer trying to sell " a nice souvenir of a sunny day " to a charming brat who puts sand in every pocket around ( and compromising letters too ) , from a Pole woman spouting poems ( in Polish ) when the audience is yawning ( " let's do as in an opera theater : let's not listen ! " ) to the hero who easily " tans " and who's afraid of small octopuses , it's really an enjoyable comedy . And last by not least : there's a small cartoon included in the movie telling the story of the donkey : such a device was extremely rare at the time , in France of the thirties .
Absorbing !	This is one of Jessica Lange's best parts and one of Costa-Gavras ' s finest achievements . I have a tendency to prefer his American works to his French ones such as " Z " and " l'aveu " . Lange portrays a brilliant lawyer , but unlike so much Hollywood trial stuff , she has got something to lose in this case : she has got to defend her father , accused of high crimes during WW2 . Besides , " High crimes " starring Ashley Judd and Morgan Freeman stole its screenplay from " Music Box " . The movie has a terrifying dramatic progression . At the beginning of the movie , we side with the father , but , little by little , doubt worms its way into us . Absorbing from start to finish , I recommend this film to anyone who is sick and tired of these trivial trials where the actors overact .
Litvak's unjustly ignored work	Anatole Litvak's work is huge : there are German , French and American productions in an uneven filmography . Most people know for sure " Anastasia " " snake pit " and the suspenseful " sorry wrong number " . His " Mayerling " was superior to Terence Young's . The weakest works came at the end of his career : " nights of the generals " " aimez-vous Brahms " or le couteau dans la plaie " are dreadful stuff . " L'equipage " belongs to his first French period . It has been wonderfully restored and the pictures are sometimes really stunning . Litvak takes a subject as old as the hills ( a love triangle ) and succeeds in grabing the viewer . It takes place during WW1 . Two pilots team up ( the title means " the crew " ) ; one of them is his pal's wife's lover . The score is lovely featuring Chopin and French old military songs like " auprès de ma blonde " . Remarkable sequences : the soldiers leaving for the war , on a train ; the stifling atmosphere of the honky-tonk where girls dance FRench cancan ; and above all ( no pun intended ) , all the scenes in the sky where Litvak uses the planes , the submachine guns and the clouds with great skill . The last scene when the clouds turn black as Aumont is dying is still impressive by today's standards . Fine performances by Charles Vanel ( the husband ) and Jean-Pierre Aumont ( the lover ) . Annabella ( who would become Tyrone Power's wife ) , even by today's canons is still photogenic which is not the case of many actresses of the thirties . NB : Aumont and Annabella were reunited in Marcel Carne's " Hôtel du Nord " but that time , they were out-shadowed by the supporting cast , Arletty and Louis Jouvet .
We want to live !	That was the second film dealing with justice in France in Cayatte's long career ( 1942-1978 ) . François Truffaut was always putting him down , but won't you forget , for a while , the new wavelet and their notorious fusty Cahiers du Cinema ? Cayatte is a name to reckon with . If Richard Pottier ( " Meurtres " ) tackled euthanasia the same year ( 1950 ) as he did ( " Justice est Faite " ) Cayatte was the first in France ( and in the world ? ) to devote an entire film to express his disgust of death penalty . Think of it ! It was 1952 ! It took a lot of guts and a lot of faith to dare such a thing at a time when lex talionis and punishing the criminal as a deterrent to others were the golden rules . " What example ? " the doctors says " the executions were no longer public as if they were ashamed of what they did " The first part of the movie may seem weak by today's standards . But it's necessary to introduce René ( a never better Marcel Mouloudji ) and his background . In his own particular way , he predates Malle's " Lacombe Lucien " hero . One fights for the Resistance , and the other is a collaborator . But both are ignorant poor - René is even illiterate . René lives in a place where " dump " is too beautiful a word . His mother is a shrew who has always had one too many ; his sister has been a whore since she was twelve ; his little brother is bound to be a delinquent . Another man sentenced to death has killed his baby girl : but he was exhausted after a hard day of work and as he couldn't sleep because his daughter was crying in their tiny flat he lost his mind . Not a judge can comprehend . Only a woman in a cafe knows better : if that man had been decently housed - just have a look at the lawyer's bourgeois parents ' luxury house , where's there's a " golden dish with every wish " - nothing would have happened cause that depressed man was a good father . Cayatte puts the whole society on trial , particularly the bourgeois ( the lawyer's father just looks up and pretends that he does not see when his son brings the little brother home ) In his next movie , " Avant le Deluge " which is to be recommended , Cayatte would denounce the bourgeois who do not know of the meaning of the word " responsibility " . By its second part , the movie becomes almost unbearable , even today . Cayatte wanted his movie to be so . Nothing is spared the viewer : the condemned persons cell , where in the small hours they suddenly become frightened : is this dawn THE dawn ? Will THEY come ? Is IT in the prison ? ( the word " guillotine " is never uttered ) . Cayatte's directing becomes masterful when he depicts the corridor where a secret ceremony happens early early in the morning . Those men in grey suddenly enter the room and sweetly say " it's your turn , son ! arm up with courage ! " As often in Cayatte's work , the screenplay is a bit muddled ( the Corse episode is a bit too much , but at least it allows us to see great actress Madame Sylvie in two too brief scenes ) but until the very end his " hope against hope " will not leave him down . As the lawyer waits for an eventual President's pardon for René , there's a moving tracking in on his little brother's face . Cayatte does not want to comfort his audience , and this conclusion is the best he could think of . Time has passed . In 1981 , François Mitterrand abolished death penalty in France . One should never forget that men like Cayatte helped along the way . His movie was certainly as important as any of Godard's farces . Like this ? try these . . . . I want to live ( Robert Wise , 1958 ) La vie , l'amour , la mort ( Claude Lelouch , 1969 ) Deux hommes dans la ville ( Jose Giovanni , 1972 ) Le pullover rouge ( Michel Drach , 1979 ) Dead man walking ( Tim Robbins , 1996 )
the grandson of " Hunted "	In 1952 , Charles Crichton had produced a successful suspenseful movie with a derivative premise : a man ( an excellent Dirk Bogarde ) compelled to take a brat hostage with him because he was the witness of his murder and to flee with him across Britain to escape the police . This journey had brought the two runaways together and Bogarde eventually felt real love and care for his young hostage . Crichton ( I find it hard to believe that it's the same man who 36 years later will cook " a Fish Called Wanda " , 1988 ! ) had construed his topic with a lot of reserve and sensitivity which bestowed his wonderful piece of work with pathos and tenderness . 40 years later , Clint Eastwood , freshly showered with praise for his dusky " Unforgiven " ( 1992 ) takes back this formula for a flick which basically was to be directed by Steven Spielberg but the latter had a lot to do with " Schindler's List " ( 1994 ) , probably his finest moment . The amount was " a Perfect World " ( 1993 ) and it deserves better than the lukewarm reviews it received and stands as a winner in Eastwood's eclectic filmography . In spite of a few installments in its second part that one can deem as overlong , it has enough commendable stuff to grab the audience . First , Eastwood's vehicle is helped by the work of John Lee Hancock who 4 years later will pen the scenario for another Eastwood flick : " Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil " ( 1997 ) . Because it eschews the formulaic ingredients of the movie genre , " a Perfect World " deals with and it encompasses various tones : from the droll moments Kevin Costner goes through with his young hostage to gripping scenes which incommodes the audience ( the scene when Costner holds the black family in their living room with a song he hadn't heard for years ) , the script takes the viewer by surprise . It's true that suspense takes a back seat during most of the viewing but Eastwood's flick has other stuff in store . In the favorable reviews , it has been said that the relationships between Costner and his young partner were highly interesting . From their first confrontation , Costner has an evident interest in the little boy , a nagging curiosity that will grow throughout his run . In this way , his attitude , at least in the outset of the film is quite different from Bogarde's . The latter realizing that he has no other choice to take his brat with him expresses at first hostility and scorn before starting to get interested in him . Not Costner who is clearly interested with his hostage from the outset and for whom he feels affection . In the two flicks , the little boys may see in Bogarde and Costner the father figures they never had . Their households are characterized by an absence of father . As for Costner , he unveils to his partner , scraps of his anterior life which might explain one of his attitudes towards him . Maybe , he tries to play his role of father and this way to get close to him : " we have a lot of things in common you and me : we love Coke , we never had father " . He wants to make him discover a new life , a freer and more maverick one in which anything goes ( he asks him to write the things he craves to do ) . Nature plays a momentum role in " a Perfect World " : it surrounds the characters and is of a vivacious green which symbolizes bliss and hope . In this perfect world , the two main protagonists try to search for support , friendship , bliss but impending danger waits around the corner . Eastwood's flick was also decried because the other sequences of the film in which Eastwood and his crew appear were rather weak . I don't think so . True the character of Laura Dern is a little formulaic but in one sequence the most important members offer their vision of a perfect world . And even if here he doesn't hold the main role , Clint Eastwood has a prime secondary part . The cast is a major asset of the film . The little boy is directed with care and respect and Eastwood gave Costner his last great hour , given the duds in which he acted afterward : the horrible " Waterworld " ( 1995 ) , a waste of money and time and the insipid " Postman " ( 1997 ) . Coming after a pinnacle in his career , " Unforgiven " , I feel that Eastwood wasn't hampered by this critical and commercial triumph and broke new ground in the fugitive movie with this startling piece of work . Give this movie a chance . It deserves it . And if you have the chance to see " Hunted " , don't think twice . Eastwood's flick compares favorably with his 40 year old model . And after the projection , try to ask yourself this question : what is a perfect world ?
The last great Polanski ?	Critically speaking , this Polanski work met mixed critical reception . One of his strangest efforts , it's the last one that is pure polanski - as - we - learned - toknow - him . Afterward , he would never be the same again and his career became erratic , encompassing various genres , such as Thomas Hardy's romantic drama ( Tess ) , tongue - in - cheek adventures ( the horrible " pirates " ) , half-baked thriller ( Frantic ) , and sometimes his own caricature ( the ninth gate ) . " Le locataire " ( the tenant ) is some kind of coda , some kind of last hurrah , a farewell to the golden ( so to speak ) era . We find in it snatches of " knife in the water " and " cul de sac " and strong reminiscences of " repulsion " and " Rosemary's baby " . The cast is weird beyond comment : A gleeful hotch-potch of French actors ( Bernard Fresson , Isabelle Adjani ) , American old stars ( Shelley Winters , Melvyn Douglas ) , even a Greek one ( Lila Kedrova ) , surrounding a Pole of course . Because Polanski was anxious to make us feel completely the poor immigrant's plight , so he decided he would play it . As always , Polanski excels in changing the most harmless place into a dreadful dangerous back-alley : here , an old house , a very " Parisian " one , complete with concierge - and - dog . Unlike " Rosemary's baby " , the neighbours are not prepossessing , and the hero's paranoïa can begin . A huge conspiracy involving almost every character on the screen ( it's the main flaw of the movie ) scares the poor Trelkovski to death . But is it for real or is it in his mind ? Then again , by his perfect mastery of the camera , the artist creates a parallel word , where hallucinations and surrealistic scenes intertwine with everyday life . The rational world is shattered in the impressing sequence of Trekolvski's suicide : all the characters , acting if they were watching a show , are applausing with enthusiasm . With hindsight , Polanski's tormented , irrational , unusual and grimacing universe seems to fall down with Trelkovski : never again , ( with the exception , maybe , of " death and the maiden " ) he would recapture his destabilizing atmosphere .
Backward ! the granddaddy of " Memento " !	Albert Valentin was the most promising ( along with Clouzot ) of the French directors during German Occupation . Like Clouzot's " le Corbeau " , his film " la Vie de PLaisir " had problems after the Liberation . Whereas Clouzot could survive ( and give us more masterpieces , two of which are currently in the IMDb top 250 ) , Valentin almost gave up , and after two or three inconsequential works , contented himself with writing screenplays . " Marie-Martine " was revolutionary : its form was completely new in 1943 . Think of it ! Three flashbacks , which flout chronology ; the first one depicts recent events , then the others are going backward in time . The construction of the movie is dazzling , using different point of views , and a lot of colorful supporting characters . Some kind of " puzzle of a downfall child " . But one should note , that , had the movie been chronologically edited , it would have lost 75 % of its appeal . French critic Jacques Lourcelles is not completely wrong when he writes that the structure was there to hide the triteness of the plot . . . . But there are strong scenes ( Marie-Martine and the mother superior ) , strong characters ( Saturnin Fabre turns one of his best performances and his famous sentence " Tiens Ta Bougie . . . . Droite ! " = hold your candle . . . straight ! " - repeated five times - has become one of the most celebrated lines of the French cinema ; some find sauciness in it ) , strong lines ( " I wanted my goddaughter to be carefully taught so I put her in an orphanage " ) " Marie-Martine " although it had not the emotional power of " L'Entraineuse " was genuine experimental cinema and paved a reliable way for the next movie " la Vie de Plaisir " , which was probably Valentin's peak . It is essential viewing for people interested in the evolution of the FRench cinema .
A farewell to greatness ?	In my humble opinion , " Marnie " remains Hitchcock's last major work : subsequent movies will be entertaining at best ( " torn curtain " , " family plot " ) , overblown ( " Frenzy " ) when it's not downright disastrous ( " Topaz " ) . And however , " Marnie " has not got a good reputation . François Truffaut used to call it " un grand film malade " ( = a great sick movie ) , but he used to add : " masterpieces are not always vibrant ; great sick movies always are " . It's the last movie in which the mother plays a prominent part . All Marnie's problems deal with childhood . How many Hitchcock's heroes are like her ? A whole lot : Rod Taylor in " the birds " , Perkins in " Psycho " , Walker in " stranger on a train " and even , in a minor mode Cary Grant in " north by norwest " . However , " Marnie " is not on a par with the former movies : Sean Connery , whose talent nobody can deny , seems ill-at-ease in this universe ; Grace Kelly was to play the lead , but because of problems between Monaco and the général de Gaulle , she was not allowed to do so ; so she was replaced by Tippi Hedren , an ok but limited actress . Marnie's character is much more complex than Melanie from " the birds " and Hedren is not completely convincing . Supporting actors include a fine Diane Baker and in a cameo ( a sailor ) , Bruce Dern who will star in Hitch's final movie " family plot " .
she's a woman and he's a man	How to tell the life of a couple nowadays ? This is what François Ozon tried to study in his new feature-length movie , " 5x2 " ( 2004 ) . I went to see it at the movies on the first day of its release and it didn't disappoint me at all . Ozon chose to focus on five precise moments in the life of a couple . Originality , these moments are related backwards ! It means that the film begins with the divorce between the two main characters and it ends with their meeting . Ozon declared that he was influenced by a TV film made by Jane Campion a couple of years ago which told a friendship between two young girls . Campion's work began with their separation and it ended with their meeting . It is significant to notice that in Ozon's cinema , the couple never remains stable . In " Under the Sand " ( 2000 ) , Bruno Cremer disappeared leaving Charlotte Rampling hopeless . In " 8 Women " ( 2002 ) , Catherine Deneuve wanted to leave her husband for her lover . In " 5x2 " , the couple formed by Gilles ( Stéphane Freiss ) and Marion ( Valeria Bruni-Tedeschi ) isn't an exception to the rule and presents a dull and bitter image . From the beginning ( it means at the end of the film ! ) their relationship is bound to fail . There's a cue pronounced by Valeria Bruni-Tedeschi before they are going to swim : " We shouldn't go and swim in this part of the sea . It is dangerous " . This " part of the sea " can be taken for a connotation of their forthcoming tormented love life . Then to tell their slow but inevitable disintegration , the director preferred to leave low-key several parts of dialogs or sequences . There are 2 examples to prove it . Gilles doesn't attend Marion's childbirth and we really don't know why . A sign of cowardice ? Maybe . . . On another hand , in the first step of the movie when they are in the hotel room , Ozon lets us suggest that they have both a lover which may have caused their divorce ( to notice that in this step , when Gilles tries to have sex with Marion , it can be taken for a hopeless try to reform the couple ) . It could mean that Ozon's screenplay remains unfinished . Besides , he once declared that he hated writing and his scripts were nearly always unfinished . But , in reality he plays with the spectator once again . Ozon wants him to take part in his movie as much as possible the following way : it is to him to formulate ideas or hypotheses that are likely to explain the ambiguous points scattered throughout the movie . Furthermore , the movie contains several details that speak volume about the progressive disintegration of the couple . The beginning of the movie shows us a bearded Stéphane Freiss with the disenchanted air and a pale , sad Valéria Bruni-Tedeschi . Ozon also put in a lot of effort in the light . The beginning of the movie takes us to rather dark rooms while the end presents shiny landscapes . At last , we really can't say that Gilles and Marion form a united couple . During their wedding night , Marion spends the night outside with a stranger and the fact that Gilles doesn't attend his wife's childbirth nearly causes an argument between Marion and her parents . So , Ozon made somber two events which are in general happy ones . Even if the originality that had secured François Ozon's reputation is less pronounced in his new movie ( except as I previously said in the order of these five moments ) , " 5x2 " is a new success in this genuine film-maker's work who doesn't seem to be out of inspiration . Let's hope it lasts !
More innocents .	At the beginning of the sixties , Jack Clayton made a fine adaptation of " the turn of the screw " , called " the innocents " which featured P . Franklin too . This could be called " more innocents " but there's a strong difference between the two works . Although " our mother's house " verges on fantastic , there's nothing irrational , nothing supernatural here . THat's what we can call a miracle of a movie : because it sounds like a horror and fantasy movie without all the genre gimmicks . So people who're looking for gore , special effects and other paraphernalia , please pass by . If you enjoy strong screenplays , first-class performances and masterful direction , this is a must . Eight children whose mother's just passed away want to go on with their life as if nothing happened . Besides , they do believe that their mother is still with them , and Pamela Franklin ' s rendering is absolutely stunning when she acts as some kind of medium : far from the usual clichés - as you can see in " ghost " for instance - , she will give you goose pimples . This mother will remain a mystery , maybe a saint steeped in piety , maybe somebody much worse than a goody-two-shoes , as Charlie eventually claims . Charlie is masterfully portrayed by Dirk Bogarde who was in his more fruitful period with such masterpieces as " accident " " king and country " " la caduti dei degi " " morte a Venezio " . He keeps people waiting for he only appears after about forty minutes . But when he's on the screen , the chemistry between the thespian and the children is so obvious that there's no hiatus . At first sight , he resembles some adult Peter Pan ( hairdo , swagger , clothes , not to forget the name : Hook ! ) . Here , where Spielberg dismally failed when he made " Hook " , Jack Clayton with a much smaller budget had already succeeded in portraying an adult / child , more than twenty years before . But further acquaintance will show that an adult can no longer remain a child . When Charlie is a man again , tragedy is waiting around the corner . " Our mother's house " is so rich a movie that you could stay all night talking about it : a twilight glow shines on an autumnal suburb and turns into absolute darkness for the last sequence . Georges Delerue's score is simply marvelous and enhances the perfection of the pictures . A strong influence on the French movie " la fracture du myocarde " . See it at any cost .
racist attack .	" Dupont-Lajoie " easily passes for Yves Boisset's best work . One can say the demonstration is ponderous , one cannot deny its absolute efficiency . There's in this ruthless plot a spiral of violence which grabs the audience and pins it down till the last pictures . A petit bourgeois , Lajoie , ( Jean Carmet's finest performance ) , go camping by the seaside with his missus and his son . There he meets up with friends whose daughter Brigitte ( Isabelle Huppert : it's the movie that put her on the map ) has a gentle romance with the boy . Probably sexually frustrated , Lajoie tries to rape Brigitte and kills her . And there's a shanty town for emigrated workers not far from here . . . The critics generally did not like it , calling it a caricature : but since we've seen worse in real life . On the other hand , the audience made it a cult movie in France , quite rightly so . The depiction of these average Frenchmen on vacation rings true and Yves Boisset does not fall into the - all of them b . . . - trap : the " hero " ' s son attitude shows the positive side of the human nature . There's also a formidable spoof on these stupid " games " which the television organizes for the vacationers . Jean-Pierre Marielle , as Leo Tartaffione , a self-important emcee , is incredibly funny . Maybe the last scene is questionable . But do not let it prevent you from enjoying the rest . Relatively speaking , it's the French " big carnival " .
God save the kings !	" The prisoner of Zenda " ( 1952 ) is a wonderful swashbuckler , a movie the whole family can enjoy ! I've already seen it three or four times and I've never got tired of it . Stewart Granger is absolutely perfect as the hero , playing two parts with gusto : I love the crowning where he manages to be as majestic as a king and yet shows he is not completely at ease ; his waltz with Deborah Kerr is also a great moment . James Mason vies with Robert Douglas in wickedness , greed and Machiavelism . Deborah Kerr is gorgeous as Princess Flavia . This kind of story belongs to an imaginary remote past - although it is supposed to happen in 1897-like the fairy tales . That's why " the prisoner " is so magical .
OUR rehearsals for retirement . . . .	Jack Nicholson is part of these unique actors who are not afraid of playing demeaning parts . While most of his peers in their sixties / seventies are still playing heroes , see what he does . He almost never played the brilliant - lawyer - with - good - prospects . Two examples : " one flew over the cuckoo's nest " and the overlooked " Ironweed " which almost nobody knows and which paired him with an equally extraordinary Meryl Streep . " About Schmidt " is a very good film , cause it succeeds in blending comedy and drama . And this drama involves US , cause like Schmidt we are all potentially retired people . We are afraid of losing our job for good ( the scene when Nicholson returns to his office is revealing ) , we are afraid to live with a partner getting old ( who's THAT old woman living in my house ? ) , we try to enlighten our children for fear they might go astray ( and the daughter's family-in-law has nothing to recommend them ) . . . and most of all , we are afraid of this : when you reach 65 , you take stock of your life and you realize it's an unfulfilled one . Then you live in the past conditional . That's why the little African boy is so important ; although we never see him , he's a character in the story : a confident , and finally , when Nicholson begins to cry , the one thing he can be proud of . The letters he writes to his foster child provides the movie with an unusually inventive use of the voice over . There are numerous memorable scenes : my favorite is Nicholson's speech during the wedding meal : his attitude is in direct contrast to the praises he says to everyone , particularly to his daughter's mother-in-law ( Kathy Bates is sensational ) . Recommended .
watch it , stupid .	A legend goes a s far as pretending that " kiss me stupid " is subpar . As far as Wilder comedies are concerned it's only one notch or two under the two Monroe ones and probably the underrated " avanti " , and probably superior to " apartment " " one two three " or " stalag 17 " Reductio ad absurdum that love between husband and wife is laudable , playing with every cliché you can think of and creating absolutely stunning scenes out of them . This is a movie one can only dream of , nowadays , when comedies are vulgar , not funny at all and gamble on audience's stupidity ( ! ) Once again , once more , Wilder ' s screenplay is exciting , witty , now delirious-the parrot watching the telly - , now almost dramatic - the scene when Walston throws a loaded Martin out of his home , this admirable sequence when Novak thinks that it would be great to be a housewife . Wilder plays with his characters , no one is in the right place , no one acts as if he's supposed to do , and , that's the miracle , everything will turn right . Invention is everywhere , in every scene , in every line of dialogue , even in these silly songs the hero and his pal want Dean Martin to sing ( check the words : " when I'm without you , I'm a Yorkshire pudding without a roast beef ( sic ) ) Wilder was a director who used to dare , provocation was his forte : from the name of the one-horse town ( Climax ) to the holier-than-thou woman who set up a petition against the " belly button " , this den of iniquity . And however , in the end , his movie is more " moral " than one hundred of these sanitized contemporary comedies . As I said , reductio ad absurdum . God bless Billy Wilder for the fun he gave to the world !
I'm not like everybody else ; so I'm not everybody else !	This movie takes a melodrama plot , gives it a black humor cum non politically correct lines treatment , then pushes it to absolute limits : actually , one thinks of what Etienne Chatiliez could have done after " la vie est un long fleuve tranquille " , hadn't he taken refuge in harmless comedies . Hélène Vincent's presence ( the bourgeois woman in Chatiliez's debut ) accentuates this feeling . " Bernie " came aside as a shock , in the humdrum field of contemporary French cinema . IMHO , it's better than " pulp fiction " because the director took a lot more chances than Tarentino : no stars , shoestring budget , and a " nasty " spirit everywhere . Bernie , a thirty years old orphan , leaves the orphanage for " life outside " . This is the beginning of a wholesale massacre in which nobody will escape . It leaves nobody unscathed : neither Mickey or Donald , nor the birds or the dogs ; neither the rich , nor the poor ; neither the parents , nor the children ; neither the video stuff clerks , nor the florists ; neither the junkies nor the dealers ; neither the garbage / rubbish chutes , nor the transformers . . . The last fifteen minutes with the hostage-taking are more conventional , but the director manages to concoct an almost dreamlike conclusion , in direct contrast to the rest of the story . A story of paranoia , a story of madness , of absurd logic , " Bernie " is all this and more . Bernie feels the society he discovers is dangerous : THEY come to bring you down , to kill you , to throw you in the garbage chute ; the enemy is definitely the OTHERS , so he launches a pre-emptive strike , by shooting everybody in sight , eating the Tweety Pies , closing the garbage chutes with sticky paper . His dream is to live in a safe world , with the parents he's found again ( you should see the parents : the father , Donald , a tramp , the mother , a prole turned bourgeois , who called her son Mickey ( sic ) ) No one will be immune to this aggressive Voltaire's " Candide " , Bernie ( aka " John Fitzgerald " aka " Mickey " ) .
typical thriller of the seventies	Along with " Midnight Cowboy " ( 1969 ) , this is John Schlesinger's most important work in a rather undistinguished filmography . Although they belong to two distinct genres , these two works have some common points : the same backdrop New York , the same main actor , Dustin Hoffman , here hires for another type of character . The 1969 film had seen him in the shoes of a little miserable Italian emigrant who suffered from TB . The second film gives him the role of a student , " Babe " haunted by the suicide of his father caused by McCarthysm . His thesis about the abuses of power in American political history seems less prominent to his eyes than the marathon for which he intensely trains . A solitary life which will be interrupted by an infernal chain of foreboding mishaps . They revolve around a conspiracy involving a former Nazi criminal , Szell ( Laurence Olivier ) nicknamed the " white devil of Auschwitz " . Babe finds himself in the throes of darkness , wrestling with unforgiving , formidable evil forces whose motivations and goals are elusive to him . " Marathon Man " is a representative film about a trend which developed in the seventies : the conspiracy cinema fueled by generalized suspicion and an increasing paranoia . Just check works such as " the Parallax View " ( 1974 ) by Alan J . Pakula or " Three Days of the Condor " ( 1975 ) by Sydney Pollack . From a fragmented , meandering master plan elaborated by William Goldman , John Schlesinger captures a discomforting climate of fear and paranoia which increase throughout Babe's struggle in the darkness . The director has also the aptitude to generate eerie feelings from sequences shrouded with a muted anxiety . Helped by a brutal editing , an invisible , impending threat hangs over the film and will sooner or later catch Babe up . To puzzle more the audience , Schlesinger muddies the waters and one of his cunning tricks is to delay as much as possible the clarification and the denouement of this apparently convoluted story to make this unsettling atmosphere last . For a major part of the film , the different parts of the puzzle remain separated but to piece them together and so to decipher the story , the viewer will have to be patient just like Babe . He's caught in a spiral of unnerving events which go beyond him and his immature behavior inconveniences the audience , perhaps more than Szell and his henchmen . Before having made the acquaintance of Elsa , Babe tried to flee from reality but is finally caught up by it . To blur the picture , Schlesinger and Goldman tap numerous possibilities of the suspense genre . Illusions and lies abound in the film under different forms : the image " Doc " gives to Babe , the moment when he sneaks into Babe's cramped flat to test his reactions , Babe's false release from Szell's clutches . Schlesinger's directing is laced with effective suspenseful scenes but about the notorious torture sequence with dental surgery instruments , I have never found it really creepy and doesn't live up to its reputation . A character will hint at it in a droll sequence in " Serial Mom " ( 1994 ) by John Waters . On the other hand , the scene is somewhat intense when Olivier asks to Hoffman : " is it safe ? " . One of the best sequences of the film shows him in Madison Avenue where he is recognized by former prisoners and no one seems to care about the woman's shouts . This scene rings true . On the other hand , the film includes weaknesses to bridge the steps of the story like the moment when Babe asks his scoffing neighbors to pretend to burglarize his flat to give him his clothes and his gun . And while I'm on the possible drawbacks of the film , Schlesinger's directing doesn't exclude some easy effects . But they are of minor importance . Even if he's credible as an immature , brazen student , Dustin Hoffman was a little too old for the role . To think that the same year , he acted a clear-sighted journalist , Carl Bernstein in Alan J . Pakula's compelling " All the President's Men " . Beside him Laurence Olivier is brilliant as usual and the two secondary actors , Roy Scheider and Marthe Keller confer to their characters mysterious , opaque dimensions . This is a legion suspenseful movie of the right bottle .
Imitation of life	For the melodrama buffs , it is cause for celebration ! Treasons , death , ambition , love , anger , murder everything is here ! Bearing more than a distant resemblance to Fanny Hurst ' s tear-jerker ( which was filmed in the thirties by Stahl and remade by Sirk in the late fifties ) , though the mother : daughter relationship is much more dramatic in Curtiz's film : whereas Bea and her daughter went though simple love rivalry , the problem of Veda and Mildred is much more complex : Veda is ashamed of her mother , because she feels ( maybe her paternal heredity ) her place is not in her mother's modest house . When her mother succeeds in business ( restaurants ) , - always the last refugee for the woman love is denied to ( see also " Only yesterday " " Mannequin " and of course " Imitation of live ; in " Written on the wind " , all that is left to Dorothy Malone is black gold business ) - , things get even worst : Mildred becomes a parvenu , a nouveau riche , nothing to do with the ( even if he is broke ) aristocracy Monte epitomizes . Superlative performances by Joan Crawford and the rest of the cast . In " Imitation of life " ( 1959 ) , it's the black girl who parades around ; in " Mildred " , it's the spoiled daughter who does .
life will kill you ( Warren Zevon )	Paul ( Sami Bouajila ) and Daniel Smaïl ( Jalil Lespert ) are two close-knit brothers who have trouble to do their own walks of life . In spite of his literature PhD on Moby Dick , Paul can't find a highly qualified work and has to rely on lowly jobs such as a pizza delivery man and a night watchman . He makes the acquaintance of a young woman who is unsure of herself , Myriam ( Sylvie Testud ) who has exams to be a university professor . As for his brother Daniel , he embarks on an intensive training based on body building and appears in peep-shows . Both of them struggle hard to get by . After his father's death , one of Paul's friends ( the black taxi driver ) says to him about his life : " you should pen a novel about it . It would sell well " . " Vivre me Tue " is derived from an autobiographical book and some of the first lines are recited by Paul at the tail end of the film . The director Jean-Pierre Sinapi kept the essential unifying thread of this vibrating novel and removed some episodes linked to Paul's troubled childhood and adolescence . In his previous movie , " Nationale 7 " ( 2000 ) , the director had lingered on a community of disabled people and had erased everything likely to make them " different " to other human beings . Here , he lays the focus on a trio of young people who seem different to the world that surrounds them . About Myriam , one of her friends says to Paul that when she was young , she felt isolated and used to cry often . Maybe , she felt herself inferior to the others and led her to rejection which may explain her lack of trust in herself . For Paul and Daniel , difference comes from their origins and their patronymics . However , both have their own talents to show and mature . But for Paul , the features aforementioned above stop him from integrating himself in society . Anyway , does he sincerely wish to have a more than proper job and so to follow the herd in society ? Shouldn't he follow his writing dreams through as Myriam advises him ? As for Daniel , his perilous body building training might take a dangerous direction . Jean-Pierre Sinapi keeps a strong proximity with his trio of actors . He almost makes himself their accomplice and his film hasn't really the look of a despondent one . It's more a bracing , feel good vibe that he manages to create . Fondness and humor haven't been forgotten like the moment when Myriam reveals to Paul that she's brilliant at a written test but feels puzzled at an oral test . Another funny moment is Paul's persuasive efforts to pronounce his name like " smile " at job interviews . Needless to add that the film is also buoyed with stamina by the threesome of actors . Jalil Lespert's physical transformation is breathtaking . As for Sylvie Testud , once again , she gives the impression that she " lives " more than she acts her role which constitutes a strong asset . Sami Bouajila matches her with easiness . Thanks to them , it's a movie I would want to watch again and again .
Scary Maleficent .	This is my favourite Disney movie . I saw it when I was 8 , and that was the first movie which scared me to death . Back home at night , I was afraid of the dark , I could not turn off the light , because I was afraid of Maleficent . One scene would go well in any horror movie : Princess Aurora , spellbound , comes up the stairs , and arrives in a room . Maleficent is hidden in the fireplace , you can only see her eyes . . Absolutely frightening ! I saw it again at 18 , and although I had grown up ( ! ) I was scared almost the same way . I cannot think of any baddie , any villain in the Mouse House that can equal this witch . She's got some kind of vamp's face-not as ugly as Snowwhite's evil queen - , and her horns add to her satanic ( sadistic ) look . When she becomes a dragon , the terror she generates is not as intense because a dragon remains a dragon , even if it's more successful than Mim's metamorphosis in " Sword in the stone " . The rest of the movie seems rather nice , compared to the movie's baddie . Tchaikowsky's waltz is tastefully used , and adds lustre to a pretty bland pair of lovers . The three good fairies-three Cinderella's godmothers for the price of one - are funny and charming and God knows how much we need them as a relief in the nightmarish world of Maleficent and her demons . A question remains : at the time , was it really a movie for children ? Now time has passed , the kids have seen worse . But I keep on thinking it was a bit too much for the brat I was in 1960 .
Taxi 0 or Looking for Mister Forestier	This is par excellence the kind of film which it's trendy to put disparagement on . This is par excellence the kind of film the new wavelet buffs laugh at . This is par excellence the kind of movie the educated clever people , those who know Rivette , Godard and Rohmer by heart , love to put down . ( with notable exceptions of course ) . Jean-Paul Le Chanois was a generous director whose humanism , philanthropism and social concerns cannot be called into question . " Sans Laisser d'Adresse " is just that : love for the human being , sympathy for the feeble . Once I wrote a comment on another Le Chanois's film " le Cas Du Docteur Laurent " . I got disastrous feedback . Bernard Blier - as good as ever - portrays a taxi driver whose passenger , Thérèse ( a moving Daniele Delorme ) is looking for mister Forrestier . However this man seems nowhere to be found ; so Le Chanois takes us on a tour in Paris , from an union meeting to a dentist's office , from a paper ( office ) to a club in Saint-Germain-des-Prés where a young Juliette Gréco sings " la Fiancée du Prestidigitateur " ( the conjurer's fiancée ) . And after a while we realize the man the girl's looking for is none other than a married lady killer and that she's a baby with her , a baby whose father . . . . This is popular nay populist cinema in the noblest sense of the term . The screenplay involves many many characters ( as Le Chanois ' s previous work " Agence Matrimoniale " did ) , and it's a wonder one remembers most of them after the screening for most of them's appearance does not exceed three or four minutes . Some say the Nouvelle Vague changed all this " obsolete " art . But Julien Duvivier had already trampled his generation's principles underfoot : in " Sous le Ciel de Paris " , the year before , he had destroyed the young - girl - coming - from - the - Provinces cliché ; and with his 1952 masterpiece " la Fete à Henriette " , he would definitively call into question what the highbrows called the " Cinema de Papa " . That said , I watched " Sans Laisser d'Adresse " with a great pleasure . This is the kind of movie the so-called connoisseurs of the French cinema would not even think of seeing . Don't be like them !
Comencini , childhood poet .	Childhood has always been a central issue in Comencini's work . He made an outstanding version of " Pinocchio " , and in the cruel " lo scopone scientifico " , a young girl knew better than her folks . Like " Pinocchio " , " Cuore " is adapted from an edifying book , written at the end of the nineteenth century by Edmondo de Amicis . This is a rather reactionary and passé work , with such ludicrous lines as " Well , Henri , our country is like an army : educated men are officers and working-men soldiers " moving , huh ? Comencini could not buy such claptrap . But he did love the old schoolmaster Perboni , and the novel featured entertaining little schoolmates stories , often melodramatic and mushy , tinged with nostalgia . So he kept the main characters , added some changes-the perfect little boy is ridiculed , the bad boy becomes a positive symbol of rebellion - , but he extended the plot : instead of painting , like Amicis , school vignettes , he situated the story during WW1 , when all the former pupils are soldiers , and the school tales are flashbacks . Comencini's genius points out so the huge gulf between what the brats learned at school , this molifying moral and the harsh truth they discover at war . But he shows gratefulness for Perboni , who , in the last sequence , tells the hero : " I'm a socialist ! I've always been ! " There are two versions of " Cuore " : the two-hour version was shown in the movie theaters , and the six-hour one - the one to see - , on TV .
Fly high .	George Langelaan is an absolutely original writer , whose obsessions are time and death . Although English , he used to write in French , he's been living in France for a long time . Richard Matheson might be his American equivalent . " The fly " is a " long " short story which Neumann and his scenarist James Clavell respected faithfully . Some might regret the sheet thrown on the hero's head once " it " happened . But by showing something too soon and too much , you end up destroying imagination , that's the main flaw of many a contemporary horror movie , brimming with make-up and special effects . And James Clavell deserves congratulations for having avoided the de rigueur happy end - particularly when a family , complete with child , is involved - at the time . Nothing in the - good , however-remake can equal the fly with a human head caught up in the cobweb . This sequence will haunt you long after you have seen the movie .
Doctor Jekyll and mister Hyde in the French country . . .	One of the first moments of this movie makes inevitably think of " Shining " ( 1980 ) by Stanley Kubrick and " Funny Games " ( 1997 ) by Michael Haneke : an aerial shot which follows a car on the highway . Inside it , a typical French family who goes on holiday in their country house hoping to find some peace . It's particularly true for the parents , Michel and his wife who seem to be all keyed up because of their restless children . On a rest area , Michel meets an old school friend : Harry who proposes Michel to come and spend a couple of days to his country house . The latter accepts . From the beginning , Harry appears as a charismatic and mysterious character . Who is he ? Where does he come from ? What does he want ? We learn very few things about him or just vague facts . The director Dominik Voll preferred to leave high and dry Harry's origins and it's better this way because the spectator can imagine whatever he wants about him . Be that as it may , we can bring a beginning of answer to the third quoted question : Harry wishes Michel well and he's ready to do anything for this , even to kill . . . After a six-year absence ( his last movie was " intimacy " in 1994 ) , Dominik Voll made a successful comeback with " With a Friend like Harry " ( 2000 ) . He seduced both the critics and the public and won 4 French Oscars in 2001 including Best Actor for Sergi Lopez . It's funny to note down that the basic idea for his second feature-length film came to him from a holiday memory when , just like Michel he met an old school friend which he hadn't seen for years . This trivial detail inspired him to focus his movie on the theme of the double . Besides , the first apparition of the two main protagonists happens in front of a mirror . Harry can be considered as the incarnation of Michel's repressed drives and buried desires . In a way , he's what Michel would like to be or to do ( consciously or not ) . I think there are numerous examples in Voll's opus and I will retain the three following points : Harry enjoys a perfect sexual life ( eating a raw egg after an orgasm is good for health ! ) and perhaps Michel would like to know something similar to this . Then , Harry kills Michel's parents and every time the latter invites them for lunch or dinner , he has to fetch them : his father can't drive for medical reasons . Perhaps , Michel has hidden death wishes about his parents . At last , by congratulating Michel about the writings he made in high school , Harry probably wakes in Michel hidden desires of writer . Roughly , Harry wants to help his friend to advance in life , no matter what the price is . " With a friend like Harry " is Voll's second film in six years but his making is absolutely awesome . If the beginning of the movie turns out to be a little trite : how many times in cinema have we seen the trick of the helpful character invading a so far peaceful universe ? But fortunately , once this moment passed , the rest makes forget this weakness . The movie adopts a slow rhythm without hastes and opts for the unexpected to play with the spectator's nerves . Dominik Voll weaves a more and more heavy even stifling atmosphere marked out by Michel's psychological changing who seems to become a little unrecognizable to his wife . Besides , she tells to Harry : " you've got a bad influence on Michel " . This heavy atmosphere is reinforced by a precise and rigorous making which favors close-up shots and the length of quite numerous sequences . Overrall the director achieved a tour de force by mixing several cinema genres in a coherent story . What is close to comedy in the beginning of the story ends up turning to drama and thriller and the abrupt changes of tone follow on from each other with a diabolical logic . Moreover , Voll knows how to use black humor and certain moments give sometimes to the work an eccentric side . Needless to say that the cast is largely equal to the story . Already remarked in the invigorating " Western " ( 1997 ) by Manuel Poirier ( whose he is one of his favorite actors ) , Sergi Lopez finds the role of his life in Harry . It will certainly be hard for him to equal his performance in the future . Highly recommended , " With a Friend like Harry " is a work that can be understood on several levels . It's a fascinating work and however we come out of the projection with a little uneasiness because of Michel's disturbing face . Harry's influence has altered him and he looks threatening as if he was going to commit something bad . As for Harry , in the domain of the pain in the neck characters , he is , in the long run , not exactly like Seraphin Lampion in " the adventures of Tintin " !
the grandson of " Cléo De 5 à 7 " ( 1961 )	" time slips away and the light constantly fades . . . " ( the Cure , Seventeen Seconds from the eponymous album , 1980 ) . Here comes François Ozon once again with a long-anticipated vehicle and a prickly topic which has been used countless of times in cinema with varying results : a person who has an incurable disease and who's going to die soon . She's got only a few months , even weeks to live . How does she react ? How does she live her last moments of life ? This is the thrust of Ozon's latest opus " Le Temps Qui Reste " ( 2005 ) and it is a remarkable movie in which Ozon eschews what could have caused the fiasco of the film : pathos . There's no whiff of it in Romain's slow way towards death . According to his author , it is the second opus of a trilogy begun with " Sous Le Sable " ( 2000 ) and which will close with a third film about the death of a child . It's true that " Le Temps Qui Reste " has a few common points with " Sous Le Sable " : both end with a sequence in which the main protagonist is standing on a beach but the difference between the two films lies in the fact that in " Sous Le Sable " , the viewer and Charlotte Rampling weren't fully sure about Bruno Cremer's death . Maybe did he abscond , maybe did he leave Rampling whereas here we are absolutely sure about the terrible truth : Romain is going to die in spite of the words pronounced by the doctor aiming at bringing an inkling of hope . Besides , the sequence at the hospital is credible . A doctor has to tell his patient that there is a glimmer of hope although he pertinently knows the tragic exit . The sequence which comes after where we can see Romain sitting on a bench , looking around him also rings true . So , Romain is a young photograph in his early thirties . He's homosexual and lives with his lover in a quite comfortable flat . His life shows all the signs of professional and sentimental success . But one day , everything falls apart when one day he learns that he has a generalized cancer . Where Ozon retains the attention is how he shoots the evolution of his main character . The author of the fabulous " 8 Femmes " ( 2002 ) has once said that he didn't care about the New Wave ( although he puts Eric Rohmer and Claude Chabrol in his straitjacket of favorite filmmakers ) . Well , I don't care for it either apart from notable exceptions . Among these exceptions , there's " Cléo De 5 à 7 " ( 1961 ) by Agnès Varda , probably one of the most accessible movies of this movement in spite of the gravity of the topic . The topic is the same as " Le Temps Qui Reste " and the psychological evolution of Cléo is more or less the same as Romain's . Ingoing at the beginning of their tragedy , mature at the end as death comes closer . In Romain's case , Ozon presents him as an obnoxious , brazen and egocentric young man who only lives for his job . Then he has an argument with his family an evening ( the sequence of the dinner is quite incommoding ) and then with his lover . He decides to visit his grandmother ( Jeanne Moreau ) and his stay at her house constitutes the crux of the film . He finds himself with a person who lives the same situation as him . He tells to her : " because me and you we are close to death " . In Varda's piece of work , it was a young soldier Antoine who helped Cléo to accept her disease and so made her fearless facing death because he saw death very close to him too ( the context was in 1961 during the Algerian war , a " dirty war " , the equivalent of Vietnam for the USA ) . In Ozon's flick , Romain's stay at her grandmother's altered him : he tries to reconcile himself with his family , his lover and is even ready to make a baby to a family ( the young woman is played by Valeria Bruni-Tedeschi who held the main role in Ozon's precedent film , " 5x2 " , 2004 ) . After that , Romain seems to have become another man , he has accepted to belong to the world that surrounds him and appears to be at ease and relieved amid it ( see the last almost timeless sequences when he's by the sea ) . So , if the first part of the film was disturbing , the second one has a placating whiff . Romain's visit to his grandmother is the central and crucial moment between the two . Ozon's camera knows how to capture the situation , the feeling , the gesture , the look and the director has a real genius to let the what is left unsaid show through . As Romain slowly but surely makes his way towards the adamant death , there are flashes of his childhood which arrive in his mind . Maybe , they help him to accept his own death . Moreover , it is often said that old people behave like children . In a way Romain also behaves like a child , at least in the beginning of the movie , then , there's still time to become a grown-up . " Le Temps Qui Reste " is a small cracker which maybe won't cater for all tastes because of its thorny topic . But it has the merit to put aside formulaic or corny ingredients . As for Ozon , more power to him although it's very likely that like some of his fellows ( Patrice Leconte ) , he'll still have to wait for a long time to receive the honors he deserves
I've got an idea .	Another good film by Roger Richebé , a director who little by little is restored to favor in France . I must say I've never seen a bad movie by him . " J'ai Une Idée " is a zany little comedy with Raimu on top of his game . The far-fetched story - it's a play transferred to the screen - is a little treat : involving English squires short of the readies , eager to latch onto a heritage ( but their creditors are around the corner ) , explosives , nudity ( Raimu ) , a burdensome - and a bit nymphomaniac - widow , exoticism ( Raimu telling his so called trip to Mexico is worth the price of admission : " I went out of the station and there were Mexicans " ) , smart servants , a reverend , revolutionary governments and above all , Raimu's wife's ideas each one crazier than the other . Roger Richebé was perhaps helped by his first - rate actors ( Raimu here , Arletty in " Madame Sans Gene " ) , but he always knew how to get the best of them !
the game of love and chance strikes again . . .	Antoine ( Daniel Auteuil ) is a head waiter in a chic Parisian restaurant and lives with his girlfriend Christine ( Marilyne Canto ) . His work occupies a lot of place in his life . One evening , by going through a park to be more quickly at his apartment , he saves from suicide a neurotic man Louis ( José Garcia ) . After vainly attempted to take him back to his close relatives , he takes him under his wing and succeeds to find him a job as a waiter in his workplace . Louis wanted to kill himself because his love affair with his ex girlfriend Blanche ( Sandrine Kiberlain ) went unravel . Antoine found her again because he wants to reconcile them again . She's a charming florist and , you guess it he becomes enamored of her . From then onwards , his well-ordered life starts to showcase signs of poor running . I'm a little surprised but glad to discover that this little high charged , hilarious comedy enjoys a small reputation abroad . About twenty reviews have already been posted for this film and most of them gave the movie thumbs up . I will post another positive one in spite of minor flaws Pierre Salvadori's film showcases . Some will be probably surprised but the outset reminded me of Jean Renoir's classic " Boudu Sauvé Des Eaux " ( 1932 ) , perhaps because of the quite prestigious situation the main protagonists of the films occupy and maybe also because they save from suicide ill-fated men who are cracking up . And then , the saved ones immerse themselves in their rescuers ' lives and disrupt their living environment . But although both movies are comedies , they don't belong to the same sub-category . Pierre Salvadori preferred not to follow the steps of the master which bestowed his own work with a strong social satire whiff . There's no trace of it in " Après Vous " , although there may be an inkling of it in the following sequence : when Antoine takes Louis in the cellar and shows him the names of the different wines . Louis is afraid not to recognize the right wines and I think that Antoine answers him the customers ape the connoisseurs and don't know anything about wines . The director preferred to choose the road of the sentimental comedy and to especially focus on Antoine's turbulent love life . Pierre Salvadori commands his film at arm's length and delays the most momentous moment of the movie ( the meeting between Louis and Blanche ) to better linger on Louis ' new life and especially on Antoine's love trouble . In a way , by making Louis work in his restaurant , by undertaking to reconcile him with Blanche and unfortunately by having a crush on her , he is a victim of his generosity . And Louis doesn't really realize the situations in which he puts Antoine . There's a funny sequence around the beginning of the film during which Antoine is at Louis ' grandmother's and tries to alter Louis ' suicide note in a placating , comforting letter . Then , deep down inside him , he thinks of leaving his ex girlfriend to live with Blanche and has to lie to his protégé and circle not to arouse suspicion about his real motivations . The movie becomes very enjoyable when it accumulates misunderstandings and embarrassing situations linked with Louis ' job as a waiter or Antoine's sentimental trouble which the latter tries to escape by hilarious means ( check the sequences in the Chinese restaurant ) . The scenario is also interspersed with droll lines : " how do you find the chicken ? Dead " . A threesome of actors serves the film . Daniel Auteuil is able to provide enough caliber to his character to watch the film until the tail end and I would like to congratulate the user " writer's reign " for the tasty pun he inserted in his review : " maitre d'Auteuil " . José Garcia who earlier showed in his career that he could hold comical as well as dramatic roles ( Philippe Harel's " Extension Du Domaine De la Lutte , 1999 ) shines as the neurotic , wound up Louis , indirectly responsible of Antoine's mishaps . At last , Sandrine Kiberlain , a little frail , naive but the director never ridicules her . She was ideally cast as Blanche . In French , this name is also an adjective which means white and the actress has a somewhat pallid face which suits well to both the name and the personality of her character . If the director honed his work with a palpable painstaking care for much of his work , there are little setbacks towards the end of the road . The end is thoroughly unexpected but was made in a rush and the trick of the lighter has been seen many times before . But these flaws aren't major enough to reject Salvadori's film . So , " Après Vous " and enjoy your film !
A treat for the whole family	What " le roi et l'oiseau " ( Jacques Prévert and Paul Grimault , 1977 ) did against tyranny , " the iron giant did it against wars . OKay , the ending of the movie does not promise us the end of all wars on earth as in Ted Hughes ' book , but the scenarists found excellent equivalents . They did not betray Hughes's spirit whose purpose was first pacifist : what's the use of building huge weapons when a dragon coming from outer space makes them useless ? So you will find no monster in the movie : it's pure human evil ; it's a human hand which pushes the button that will kill and destroy . The part of Hogarth in the book is relatively minor . Hence the necessity to develop his character and to give him a personality . He's got only his mother ( whereas in the book he had a whole family ) and he's called Hughes of course . Hogarth is a wonderful little boy and he makes with the giant a team that will appeal to everybody . We also meet the scrap's owner and Kent who was made from start to finish by the scenarist with talent : a true villain , a coward , a deceitful man , all his scenes with Hogarth are great ! Elements which happened at the very beginning of the story are deftly used in the film : the reconstruction of the robot for which the seagulls play a prominent part . The pictures are often remarkable , with nods to old sci-fi movies of the fifties . Hogarth in the hands of the giant recalls the young bird which the robot takes in " le roi et l'oiseau " . I will tell the children : if you ' ve seen the movie , read the book ! if you've read the book , watch the movie !
Jose Ferrer's arm .	At the beginning of the trial , the lawyer , played by José Ferrer arrives with a wounded arm : no connection with the story , no affect on the end of the movie , completely gratuitous . So why ? In " the sniper " ( 1952 ) , there's also a mutilated arm . Some historians of the cinema think it must be Dmytryk's remorse , because he became an informer during the McCarthysm . Some kind of self-punishment . Who knows ? Strange indeed . For the movie itself , its only flaws are the bland scenes between the Princeton lad and his squeeze . But everything else is absorbing , and Humphrey Bogart gives one of his best interpretations , acting with his hands ( and his famous marbles that were to become almost legendary ) as much as with his tormented face . Actually , he almost never stops twitching . Bogart gets good support from Fred MCMurray in a very ambiguous part - did he " help " Bogart's paranoia ? Ferrer would be inclined in favor of this hypothesis - , and Van Johnson . In spite of a conventional last scene , " the Caine mutiny " leaves a bitter taste in the mouth : where does madness begin ? Who is responsible of Bogart's neurosis ? Who are the good guys ? Is the villain the one we thought ? The last scene between Ferrer and the mutineers bring everything into question . Ambiguity will come back to the fore ( particularly in Brando's character ) in Dmytryk's subsequent " the young lions " ( 1958 ) .
good Charlotte . . .	François Truffaut and Jacques Doillon who have often worked with children know well one thing : making a movie about childhood or adolescence is a quite difficult thing . Here , it is Claude Miller's turn to broach the delicate topic of adolescence . The less we can say is that he signed here a sensitive and bitter work that brings out enough strength and emotion to compare with the filmmakers ' movies previously quoted . The first indisputable quality that we can put forward is the following one : Claude Miller's film is very far from the clichés generally attributed to teenagers . Charlotte isn't a nymphet , only a teenage girl who is not a happy person and who's searching for love and understanding . The director succeeds very well in making us share his heroine's profound discontentment and Charlotte Gainsbourg won a well-deserved Oscar for her remarkable performance . Apart from the relevant and convincing description of Charlotte , Miller painted a series of characters who are never on the edge of caricature . Lulu is perhaps a naive little girl and the director somewhat made her look ugly by giving her glasses but he does everything to hide her dumb air . Then , Charlotte's father is presented as a good man and faced with her daughter's insolence , he can contain his anger . One last example , Clara's manager is not obsessed with money . With Charlotte Gainsbourg , it would be unfair to neglect the rest of the cast . Either the actors are young or old , they all have a common point : they are all excellent . This only confirm one gift that Claude Miller had already shown in his first movie , the harrowing " la meilleure façon de marcher " ( 1976 ) : an excellent direction of actors . Besides , like in " la meilleure façon de marcher " ( 1976 ) , " l'effrontée " ( 1985 ) is a perfectly stable movie , both funny , touching and where Miller skilfully alternates moments of tension and calm and the rare moments of violence are only suggested like the scene when Charlotte hits Jean with his globe . Quite obviously , what mainly interested the director in this film is Charlotte's relationship with the most important character of the film : Clara Baumann . Their confrontations constitute the key-moments of the movie . Clara is a talented young pianist and Charlotte blindly idolizes her . She is ready to believe everything she says , even when Clara confides to her that she would like to become her impresario on tour . It is interesting to note down that when she talks about Clara , Claude Miller gently laughs at her naivety . More important , through their relationship , Miller compared their respective worlds . The music used ( the song " Sarà , perché ti amo and Mozart ) reveal the incompatibility of these worlds and the beginning of the sketched friendship ( but is it really friendship ? ) is eventually bound to fail . To tell this failure , Miller proceeds by little touches : the manager's telephone that doesn't answer , Lulu who creates a scandal during the show . This failure clearly shows Charlotte's disillusion but it doesn't stop the movie to end on a positive tone : when we see the heroine take care of Lulu , she seems to have understood that her place is among her family . The movie also contains another strong point : the relationship between Jean and Charlotte where Miller favors the progressive rise of tension . For this , he uses the same method as Charlotte's failure with Clara : he proceeds by little touches : the movie they watch at the cinema is " the Exorcist " ( 1973 ) and the tension gradually grows and explodes when they are in Jean's hotel room . I must admit that I don't know enough Claude Miller's work . I only saw " la meilleure façon de marcher " ( 1976 ) , " la petite voleuse " ( 1988 ) and this one " l'effrontée " ( 1985 ) but these three films were sufficient to make me a very good impression of this filmmaker and I am long to discover his other opus .
bad day ( R . E . M . )	This Miguel Courtois ' vehicle is overlooked when I check the mark : a more than lowly 5 , . Why is it rated so low ? What's the problem ? Already back in the spring 1999 when it reached the streets , it should have deserved a better commercial fate . Prior to this , the director Miguel Courtois cut his teeth on made-for-TV movies and generally the transition to the silver screen for a made-for-TV movies is a perilous task but Courtois doesn't seem to have known this . With this highly charged little comedy , he displays real skills in directing which are worth of a comedy virtuoso . The unities of place action and time ( check the title ) are virtually respected : a big , solemn building which in the space of nearly twenty-four hours will be the perfect backdrop for a series of various disasters which will shatter Marc Chanois ( Richard Berry ) ' s day . And however his day appears to start under auspicious skies . His pedantic timetable must occupy a momentum day around two vital events . The first one is of a professional order : an important tycoon , Zucker must sign a capital contract which would reinforce the stance of Chanois ' firm ( he's a Parisian insurance agent ) . The second one is of a private order and must take place the same evening : he must marry his fiancée Sabine and makes the acquaintance of his stepfather . Alas ! From the outset a gallery of weirdos hangs around . Various subplots will intertwine with hilarious consequences but not for poor Chanois . . . The film promises great things and will deliver them throughout unfortunate Marc's mishaps while easily filling its quota of laughter . All right , the tenet of a man who has a nightmarish day isn't of an astounding originality but the scenarists have signed a painstakingly built scenario with deftly well-organized sequences . The most delightful one will be perhaps the following one : see the moment when Zucker is about to sign the fundamental contract . Anne Brochet's blunders would be sufficient to justify the vision of the film . But we mustn't neglect the rest of the film . It is interspersed with droll gags , preposterous but noticeable gags which will play a significant role in Marc's slump . Courtois makes adopt his camera an increasingly hectic pace as Marc's bad day passes by while keeping as much clarity as possible . He shows respect for the audience and hasn't forgotten that a film is a communicative link with the viewer . He pulls off with gusto to film poor Marc's trouble and their evolution with a stringent accuracy and the audience never loses the thread amid these unexpected events and disasters which poison Marc's day . One feels that Courtois shot this comic film in a rousing and perfectionist spirit . One shouldn't pass over the topnotch cast the movie boasts . Their input in the disturbance of this mad day is total . The persona of each character fits them like a glove and fuels the communicative pleasure with the viewer . Anne Brochet , the freewheeling nymphomaniac lover who has a crush on Berry again . Gilbert Melki as a narrow-minded , violent virile macho man . Guilaine Londé as a not-so-clever secretary and of course Richard Berry as the edgy main character . He circumvents the traps a role like his could tend , notably the over-the-top acting . He nearly never gives in to wild mood swings and offers a stalwart acting fraught with self-control and softening anger . Only Sabine's father is a cardboard character but that's minor quibble . Don't let the low rating fool you and make yourself a treat with this genteel , taut comedy which without Courtois ' accuracy would have been a woolly hodgepodge .
Wait for the final picture .	I saw this short a long time ago , I cannot remember where or when , but I have never forgotten it , which is pretty amazing since its running time is about 20 min . An old man lives in an old house , surrounded by dozens of cats . He treats them like human beings , feeds them with love and tenderness . They seem like a true family . One remarkable sequence shows the old man playing Wagner's " Tristan and Isolde " to his feline audience . He tells them the story . Then he takes some food and he comes down to his cellars . And then . . . . The ending packs a real wallop . I will not reveal it of course . Every time I remember " l'homme aux chats " it gives me the shivers .
Chabrol's cinematographic language .	They often say that if someone wanted to see a French bourgeois circa 1970 , watching Michel Bouquet in a Claude Chabrol movie was enough ! Three times he portrayed this kind of character ( this movie , " la rupture " and " juste avant la nuit " ) . Three times he teamed up with the director's ex-wife , the luminous Stephane Audran ( twice as her husband , one as . . her father-in - law ) and together they worked wonders - contemporary Chabrol movies suffer from the dearth of great actors - in " merci pour le chocolat , how could Jacques Dutronc equal the peerless Bouquet ? Unlike " les biches " which has not worn well because of its subject ( bisexual women ) , once daring , now trite , " la femme infidèle " deals with an eternal story : the love triangle , and it completely renews it : take the first thirty minutes : it is primarily a depiction of the bourgeois dolce vita : the desirable mansion , the servants , the good little boy who makes a clean sweep of all the prizes and snubs the telly , the chic nightclubbing . . . . And when the tragic events occur , it seems that they accidentally happen : who knows if , Had Bouquet not found the lighter . . . Hitchcock's lovers will notice the nod to " psycho " when Bouquet gets rid of the body . Bouquet and Audran talk to each other but they do not really communicate : here lies Chabrol's talent ; when at the end , they try to establish a true relation , they do not use words anymore : looks , gestures , speak louder than words . The jig-saw puzzle is also a good dramatic element and reflects the couple's confusion . As for the last sequence it's not at all what the audience is expecting : no cries or despair , but a thoroughly silent scene , where Chabrol enhances the beauty of the nature which surrounds his characters . Chabrol's thrillers of this golden era , although their endings are full of sound and fury , achieve the feat of leaving the viewer with a feeling of quietness : Michel Duchaussoy ( here a cop ) sailing away in " que la bête meure " ; Audran , looking at the still waters of a pond in the dark night in " le boucher " or enjoying a balloon release in " la rupture " ; the couple Audran / Bouquet , turning off the light for what may be his last night in " juste avant la nuit " . As for this abstract communication , Chabrol would take it to its absolute perfection with " le boucher " , his towering achievement : besides , like in " la femme infidèle " , a lighter ( coincidence ? ) plays a prominent part . Audran's character is called Hélène . This first name would remain for three more movies ( le boucher , la rupture , juste avant la nuit ) . And Chabrol WOULD NEVER FORGET gastronomy : here , he gives us a piece of advice about crepe flambé . Remake with Richard Gere , Diane Lane and Vincent Perez taking on Bouquet's Audran's and Maurice Ronet's parts .
I return to the Queen of Spades . . .	Although marred by an unlikely happy end - probably imposed by the producers - and a weak leading actress ( Madeleine Ozeray whose little girl's voice is a bit irritating ) , " La Dame De Pique " , which got unanimous thumbs down from French critics - not even one star on the " Guide Des Films " - is a real tour de force of acting ( Pierre Blanchar and Marguerite Moreno ) and directing ( Fedor Ozep ) It was a time when Russian stories were very popular in France . Most of these flicks ( " Les Nuits Blanches de Saint Petersburg " , Jean Dreville , " La Citadelle du Silence " Lherbier same year " ) were failure when it came to render a Russian atmosphere . This is the reason why I do not go much for Renoir ' s " Les Bas Fonds " ( 1936 ) either . Fedor Ozep , who was Russian , had no problem with that . Pierre Blanchar , who was blamed for overacting , was the ideal actor though . Chenal's " Crime Et Chatiment " did belong to him . His eyes who " must be seeing things " ( and they do in a way ) literally haunts the viewer . His face , just before the mushy final which spoils this scene , makes me think of Anthony Perkins ' in " Psycho " . Few French actors could express madness as he did . Marguerine Moreno is as always admirable ; she's so convincing that even the detractors of the movie praise her performance . She portrays a woman of another age , who knew Voltaire , Marie-Antoinette and the Count of Cagliostro who confided the secrets of the three cards to her . Greatest moment : the funeral of the countess during which the chorus seems to sing " Trois Sept As " the three magic cards , then the careered out of control coach . Remake by Leonard Keigel in 1961 starring Dita Parlo .
Who could do better than Agnes Varda ?	Absolutely nobody . After all , they were married for 33 years , their career began at roughly the same time , with the rise of the Nouvelle Vague ; Among the - sometimes outrageously overrated - directors of that school , Varda and Demy were among the less pretentious and their best works ( mainly Demy ) have stood the test of time quite well . One cannot like Demy and not watch this documentary : it was made with love , taste ans skill . Combining Demy's childhood , his hometown memories - his wildest dreams were to make shows-with the stories he transferred to the screen , Varda explores the genesis of them all , and her work is absorbing . Nantes , " Lola " ' s town , Demy's town should be remembered as Jacques Demy's hometown .
Silly plot , wonderful actors .	This is Lehman's only claim to fame , although he was helped by Claude Autant-Lara who was to become one of the most important directors of the years to come ( " Douce " , " le diable au corps " ) . It's not much of a plot ( a fric frac = break-in ) , but the fabulous threesome make it a winner . Michel Simon plays a gentle thug , so lazy his nickname is " Jo with the arms cut " . Arletty is Loulou , a whore who teaches slang to the respectable Marcel , a clerk in a jeweller's shop , object of his two " friends ' " desire . A lot of fun is guaranteed for all !
Maleficent obsession .	Among all the directors labelled " nouvelle vague " , Claude Chabrol was arguably the one who had more affinities with the precedent generation so despised by a lot of his sixties colleagues . And the generation before Chabrol included the genius Henri-George Clouzot . So , to film " les diaboliques " ' s director lost screenplay , Chabrol was ideal . Both he and Clouzot mix detective stories , social satire and psychological studies . " L'enfer " might be one of Chabrol's finest achievements . François Cluzet , in a lifetime performance , portrays a jealous man-recalling Bunuel's hero in " El ' ( 1952 ) - , but his jealousy verges on madness . Little by little , with small touches , we see this maleficent obsession grow like a cancer , destroying everything , his wife's sincere love ( well played by Emmanuelle Béart ) , his personality , his job . And see how Chabrol masters space . At the beginning , the action takes place in a wonderful lake setting . Then we do not get out of the hotel owned by Cluzet , with its dangerous corridors . And in the final sequences , the director confines his two characters to a doctor office or their bedroom . Cluzet's madness and its inexorable progression are masterfully shown too . First , only some gestures , some voice inflexions . Then he begins to follow her everywhere . Then come the hallucinations : the amateur movie projected onto a small screen in the restaurant is the film's apex and should be part of a Chabrol anthology . Interior voices obsess the unfortunate hero , and every time he looks himself in a mirror , he sees an irrational world , this world he lives in , this world he believes in . No longer able to communicate with the normal one , he forces the other ones ( his wife being first in line ) to enter his . And we are not sure , at the end of the movie , that Béart is not on the other side of the mirror too . Two private jokes : In the first sequence , Béart puts her hair in braids , and she resembles Vera Clouzot in " les diaboliques " . When the young couple comes back to the restaurant after the wedding , the little accordion tune " les couleurs du temps " that you hear was written by Guy Béart , Emmanuelle's father a long time ago . NB . Clouzot's version , which he began to film circa 1963 , featured Romy Schneider and Serge Reggiani . ( although the film was never completed , it has a page on IMDb )
Face in the hole .	I was surprised when I saw that this excellent B-movie had no comments at all . I would go as far as to say that Billy Wilder borrowed some of his best ideas for his masterpiece " the big carnival " aka " ace in the hole " from " the crime of Dr Forbes " ( he reportedly said he was inspired by a news item ) . But how can't you think of his movie when , in this overlooked 1936 work , you see people have a wild time in front of a hole where a man is dying : the " mercy killed hot dogs " short scene alone is worth the price of admission . The screenplay is very interesting and avoids the triteness of the usual love triangle . Gloria Stuart shines in her scene in the court when she explains what she feels about her husband and the young physician . And I guess mercy killing or euthanasia was not probably an easy safe subject at the time . It's still is an embarrassing matter in 2009 . The ending is probably some kind of easy way out , but it is quite smart and , with the ruthless Hayes code , what else could the writers have done ? A sense of humor tempers this story ; the posh ladies visiting the laboratory and their false compassion is a foretaste of the crowds rushing towards the dying scientist . There's also an Italian restaurateur who is subject to egregious gaffes and who illustrates the proverb : " the road to hell is paved with good intentions " . A very good movie .
my mummy's dead . . . . . . but she will come back	It's evident and it deserves to be mentioned . When Jacques Doillon films children ( un Sac De Billes , 1975 ) or teenagers ( la Drôlesse , 1979 , Le Petit Criminel , 1990 ) , it's what he does best and especially when he pores over the dark sides of childhood and adolescence like rejection , misunderstanding , lack of love or the death of dear close relatives . " Ponette " revolves around the latest of these things . This cute 4 year old little girl lost her mother ( Marie Trintignant , a sinister omen for her tragic fate some years later ) and is persuaded she will see her again . So , she embarks on a long waiting which makes her father ( Xavier Beauvois ) and the grown-ups incensed . Her aunt ( Claire Nebout ) tries to provide her solace with the help of religious creeds but does she really believe in them ? At the start of a new school year , she is sent at boarding school with her cousins and in a small church , asks God to talk to her mother . Then , in a graveyard in front of her mother's grave , a miracle happens . The first thing that springs to mind after the viewing is that you would like to hail Doillon for the remarkable work he has provided with the children . He said that he listened many conversations between children for months before rewriting them in dialogs and that's the main reason why his film has a larger than life vibe . Sometimes , you even wonder if you don't watch a documentary . Working with children on a film set is very hard to do but it's evident here that Doillon did everything possible to prepare his very young actors mentally to his cinematographic demands . So , little Victoire Thivisol and her partners really live their texts and it's the world perceived with children's eyes that is one of the real motors of the film . In another extent , Doillon walks away with the honors of a tricky topic : how can the life of a beloved human being can be perceived by her children ? The Scottish Peter Mullan will bring his own answer in his moody " Orphans " ( 1997 ) and here , Ponette thinks she will see her mother again because she is seduced by the religious tenets her aunt tells to her . And when her mother appears beside her in the graveyard , it's a real foray into the fantastic without the unpleasant impression of a break in tone because the little girl is the only one to experiment this . During their short moment together her mother tells her : " I won't be able to stay with you but before I definitely leave , promise me one thing : don't complain , savor life as much as you can " . We aren't very far from one of the key lines in John Frankenheimer's " Birdman of Alcatraz " ( 1962 ) : " the first duty of life is to live " and it's the message Doillon left in his work . Ponette is bound to have understood the lesson and to follow this piece of advice . Perhaps you will keep it in your heart too after the viewing . So , from a murky starting point , Doillon manages to create a piece of work with a startling realism and an uplifting message . If you're sensitive to these features , " Ponette " will leave you elated . Highly recommended and I would advise you to watch it several times because very young children are often difficult to decipher in their lines . So , be patient and you will be rewarded .
Madness inside . . . and madness outside . . . .	" Un Ami Viendra Ce Soir " is Raymond Bernard's most ambitious film . Today , it is looked upon , by most French critics as an extravaganza , a minor - albeit with a major potential - work . " Un Ami " , despite some reservations ( the second part looks like filmed stage production and the Madeleine Sologne / Paul Bernard pairing does not work very well ) , deserves to be seen . The action takes place in WW2 in occupied France . The first part might disturb someone who is not familiar with the subject ; a man , Michel Simon , , whose behavior and words seem completely insane , meets a lady pushing an empty baby carriage all over the park . We are in an insane asylum . Resistant fighters hide there , with their leader , Commandant Gerard whose identity they all ignore . Who is crazy ? Who is a true fighter ? These first scenes are downright disturbing , it's a dialog of the deaf : some pretends they are crazy and talk nonsense ; some are really crazy and talk nonsense . A musician uses music notes to communicate . And Radio London adds to the confusion with its coded messages " The rhino is blowing soap bubbles / The kangaroo is dancing in the meadow " , which make sense not only to the impostors but also to the madmen ( I'm going to my Republic with the kangaroo " says Lunatic Michel Simon , a hippie of the forties , who could not stand evil ) . And there is also the German language , almost nobody understands . The second part is not as successful as the first one and there are historical mistakes : at the time , no one knew what happened in the concentration camps ; the American and Russian soldiers discovered the horror of those places in 1945 only when Germany fell in their hands . No one in France knew about the crematories and the word is uttered though . They seem to know all the details about the horrible things which the Nazis were doing there . However , there is enough suspense to sustain the interest till the last minutes , in spite of Madeleine Sologne's histrionic performance ; besides this blonde actress , with her " Aryan " look , is supposed to be a Jew . Like this ? Try this . . . . . " Le Roi de Coeur " Philippe de Broca 1966
Hearts divided	" Coeur Fidèle " is a very simple story : Marie ' s in love with Jean , but she is forced to marry Petit Paul , who , in spite of his name , is an alcoholic brute . Epstein's script was probably inspired by the novelists from the nineteenth century , probably Victor Hugo and Emile Zola . Marie is nobody's child : she was brought up by a shrew and her husband who never showed some affection to her : she is akin to Cosette or Fantine in " les Miserables " . Petit Paul seems to come from Zola's " L'Assommoir " the seventh volume in the Rougon-Macquart saga . Marie and Jean are unfortunate lovers ; Jean is a good man , in the noblestsense of the word . Epstein's closest relative in the cinema field is Frank Borzage in " Coeur Fidele " , with whom he shares the same fascination for the fair and the merry-go-rounds ( see " little man what now ? " ) Like Abel Gance , Epstein was a pioneer : the scene on the fairground has a sense of madness which makes the viewer dizzy ; it predates Hitchcock's experimentations in " Strangers on a train " by thirty years . For that scene alone , the movie would be essential viewing ; with the addition of another extraordinary scene when the crippled girl , whose crutch has been crushed by a car crawls all along the way to save her friends , it becomes a major twenties French classic .
The great lost epic .	It came before " the ten commandments " " land of the Pharaohs " " Ben Hur " and it's overlooked today . How unfair ! Based on Mika Waltari's mammoth novel , it doesn't cheapen it ! Waltari's novel was so huge only a miniseries could have done it justice ( I hope it will be done some day ) . Waltari , whose message is essentially Christian remains intact ( another of his books " the secret of the kingdom " ( first part ) takes place after Christ's death in the Holy Land ) . " The Egyptian " is the rising of a monotheism close to Christianism long before Christ : the Pharaoh ( Wilding ) is some kind of Messiah who sacrifices his life because he knows that the true kingdom is not in the material world : he asks to return good for evil ! And he has disciples , who will eventually turn into martyrs ( the scene when Simmons and the other worshippers of the Sun God are slain is visually stunning , looking like some pagan ballet ) . For the priests , on the other hand , this new religion would mean the end of their influence on the populace , and that's why they look for a strong man ( Mature ) who can lead the army against the Hittites as well as against their dangerous compatriots . Another religion , or non-religion should we say , is Sinouhé's ( Purdom ) who during two hours believes in nothing ( the sequence of the grain of sands is absolutely sensational and rises the whole movie well above the average peplum ! ! ) There's another fascinating side : the movie looks like a flamboyant melodrama . Not only for the screenplay ( notably pharoah's sister's ( Tierney ) final revelation which predates " the ten commandments " by two years ) , but also the splendor of the cinematography : Viviani , in his book about Curtiz , talks about a Baudelairian atmosphere , blue and gold , notably in the scenes which involve the prostitute ( Darvi ) who contemplates her reflection in the water of her bath , supreme narcissism . Around the hero , all the characters appear , disappear , appear again , but when they reappear , they have followed their way and all the subplots come together with consummate skill . Besides , as such is often the case in " modern " melodramas , the story is a long flashback , framed by two short sequences showing Sinouhé an old man who's remembering . This is a wonderful sword and sandals , that had a strong influence , not only in America but also in Europa , notably in Poland where Jerzy Kawalerowicz directed a spellbinding " faraon " ( 1966 ) which owed a lot to Curtiz .
Too late for the heroes	This movie came one year too late . " Star Wars " happened , for better or for worse , depending on whom you ask . This is clever sci-fi , very close to Crichton's work , before he gets bogged down in Jurassic Park and spielbergesque follies . ( " Mondwest " " Coma " and later " looker " ) Is it sci-fi anyway ? Admittedly , it's unlikely as hell , but not much more than many a spy thriller . In the movie , this whole performance was to make people believe the astronauts actually landed on Mars . This trickery , isn't it what Peter Hyams ( and all other directors ! ) does when he makes his movie ? His whole performance is to make US believe that Astronauts are to land on Mars but . . . They do it with mirrors , like Jorge Luis Borges . The second part of the movie is a chase , a well done thriller , in landscapes recalling " Planet of the apes ( 1968 ) " . Hyams does not show the killings , and the way James Brolin manages to show the way to his wife , then to journalist Gould is pretty smart . The ending verges on black humor . Had this movie been released five or ten years sooner , when sci-fi had strong scripts , it would have been deservedly acclaimed . But in the land of special effects and childish stories , it became a sleeper , every sci-fi buff should know . Neither " outland " ( some kind of remake of " high noon " on Jupiter ) , nor " 2010 " ( which failed dismally as a " 2001 " sequel ) is on a par with " capricorn one " .
Through a child ' s eye , darkly . . . .	When you are a child , you often hope you will live absorbing adventures and that the fairy tale you are reading will come true . When you are , like the hero of Carol Reed's movie , an only child , cause your father is a VIP , you have a tendency to build your own world and to invent your own heroes who might have killed some day , but in self-defense only , and in a faraway country . Mrs Baines is the witch , Mr . Baine is the hero any child would dream of , and his lover , Michele Morgan has all it takes to be an heroine : she's beautiful , she's tender and she's a foreigner ; moreover , she ' s French and she and the little boy are the only ones who can speak fluent French ! This is an absorbing story , where we are told that a child does not take the same view as you do , and that playing a game with him or pretending to be or to do can prove to be dangerous . The paper plane ( a telegram ) scene can compare with Hitchcock's best tricks ; there's a similar scene in " Spellbound " . This is one of the best films with a child as the hero . Like this ? Try these . . . L'incompreso ( Luigi Comencini , 1966 ) Hunted ( Charles Crichton , 1952 ) Jeux Interdits ( René Clément , 1952 ) Moonfleet ( Fritz Lang , 1955 )
Gallows Bird	Unlike his former colleagues , Roger Richebé was slagged off , not by the young Turks of the Nouvelle Vague , but by one of the greatest writers of the Old Wave : Henri Jeanson . Everybody thought that he was right and now nobody wants to see Richebé's movies . And however . . . I saw a handful of his movies and I was never disappointed : at least five of them would deserve to be watched : " Madame Sans-Gene " , " Les Amants de Minuit " , " Monseigneur " , " l'habit vert " . . . . . . . and " Gibier De Potence " ( = Gallows Bird ) ! This film proves that Richebé's bad reputation is totally unfair . This is a great work , extremely daring for the time ! A soldier , Marceau , comes back from WW2 . An old man tells him " There were not many dead soldiers in this war , were there ? " . A line which would not be out of place in Wyler's " Best years of our lives " . He remembers . . . . ( Long flashback ) he was an orphan and was raised by priests . . . No childhood . . . When he left the orphanage , he was short of the readies . Then he met Madame Alice : she made him a model for pornographic photographs disguised as " art " and a gigolo for lonely aging women . . That's the main originality of the movie . What happens to the hero is what happened generally to girls at that time . " White male slave trade " he says . But there's more to the picture than meets the eye : Madame Alice , played by fabulous Arletty , is a spellbinding mysterious woman . The audience expects her to sleep with her protégé but nothing happens . The relationship is very uneasy , certainly perverse and leaves the viewer ill-at-ease . " Who are you ? Marceau asks . you are not feminine , you do not wear any jewels . Are you . . . . . ? Terse answer : " No , I do not like women either " . A revelation tells us that something happened in Madame Alice's childhood too . Georges Marchal ( who was good friend with Luis Bunuel who gave him his two best parts " La Mort en Ce Jardin " and " Cela S'Appelle l'Aurore " ) portrays this unfortunate hunk with great conviction . He's caught in a cobweb , and Madame Alice makes me think of a Black Widow . After the war , he tries to pick up the pieces and to start a " pure " brand new life but she is not prepared to accept it which is all the more disturbing as there is no sex at all between them . When he meets a pure young girl ( Nicole Courcel ) , both of them swim in the nude in the pool ( which was quite unusual in 1951 in the French cinema ) . It's like a new " christening " for him . Marceau's longing for purity finds its roots in his friendship with one of his pals in the orphanage . When he leaves him - the poor lad who wants to become a priest soon dies from The warns Marceau : " stay true to yourself , stay pure " . Priests play a prominent part : Marceau comes back to his orphanage and he is so hungry he wants to take a piece of bread , but he is too proud to do that in front of the man who was some kind of father to him . Later , in the strange mansion where the plot is resolved , he meets another priest ( who ' s afraid of dying : " and however " , Marceau says " you are a believer " ) with whom he strikes up a bizarre relationship . Two famous French critics Jean Tulard and Jacques Lourcelles have recently praised " Gibier de Potence " .
a shock duo in an almost immaculate film	London at the dusk of the sixties . Two unemployed young thespians , Withnail and I share a tawdry flat and wait in vain for the role that will change their lives once for all . They drown their sorrow in cigarettes and alcohol ( they spend a good part of the film smoking and drinking ) and occasionally in drugs that a dealer Danny supplies them . One day , despondent , they decide to go on holiday in a cottage held by Withnail's uncle , Monty an overweight , offbeat homosexual and hope to lead a life several notches below than theirs in London . Alas ! The cottage isn't as lascivious as they had expected but rather seedy and cold . And life in the country is not as better as in town . The two pals have to ask , even to coax their surrounding for some food and other things essential for them to survive and to learn among others how to pluck a chicken and to unearth potatoes . When Monty comes out of the blue to give them a hand , the situation appears to become clearer but this posh , Oxford-educated man has visibly a crush on I who can only try to withstand him . . . This Bruce Robinson's effort has large accents of biopic film and originates from his difficult student years . For his debut movie , he pulled out all the stops thanks chiefly to two major assets : a faultless screenplay and first-class performances . His scenario shines when it comes to construe and forehead the persona of his two young actors . Withnail and I are headstrong , self-centered and show a big incapacity in adapting themselves to the urban living standards as well as the rural one even if I is more sensible than his sidekick . Robinson didn't want to feel pity at all for his two young unconventional figures and preferred to include as much laughter as possible . And one arrives here to a point British cinema excels : to shroud a film with a " feel-good " vibe in a dreary universe . In " Withnail and I " , scenery are often sordid and the two young unfortunate ones ' living conditions could convey despair and pessimism . But the director shelved this and chose the direction of humor with laughter galore . He seemed particularly on top form when he wrote his screenplay . It is among others a spate of witty , funny cues . My favorite one would be : " when I think there 20 000 sheep outside and we are bent to eat vegetables . . . " . And he knows how to create comical moments with sometimes a glib tonality . A bouncy soundtrack adds to the exhilarating vibe that the film shelters . Topnotch performances also make it worthwhile . The personality of the two young lads fit like a glove to the two young actors . Richard Griffiths shines as uncle Monty and it's impossible to forget Ralph Brown's hippie attitude . Brilliant script + mind-boggling acting = genteel English comedy .
François Truffaut's successful swansong	As I have often pointed out in several reviews , François Truffaut is far from being prominent in my canon of favorite French filmmakers of all time . I have always thought that he was one of the most overrated ones and he contributed in making me hate the New Wave and its pretensions . " Les 400 coups " ( 1959 ) is a very academic work . " Jules et Jim " ( 1962 ) has not worn very well and its innovative camera work couldn't conceal the extreme unlikeliness of the story . I also pass in silence the Antoine Doinel saga starring stiff Jean-Pierre Léaud . However , there are some palatable flicks in Truffaut's filmography : " l'Enfant Sauvage " ( 1970 ) , a very harrowing , sensitive work , " l'Argent De Poche " ( 1976 ) , a delightful children's realm and this one " Vivement Dimanche ! " ( 1983 ) , his last opus before he passed away the following year . It was not the first time , Truffaut had tried a stab at handling the detective genre . " Tirez Sur Le Pianiste " ( 1960 ) , " la Mariée Etait en noir " ( 1968 ) , " la Sirène Du Mississippi " ( 1969 ) gave so-so results but " Vivement Dimanche " ! " is far more gripping and enjoyable than the three quoted films . An estate agent , Julien Vercel ( Jean Louis Trintignant ) is suspected of having murdered his wife and his lover . He has to hide in his workplace and her secretary Barbara ( Fanny Ardant ) investigates about this mystery and leads her to reconstitute Barbara's murky past . Julien confides to Barbara that he knew very well his wife but in the same time , he didn't want to know her hidden face . He'll however discover it . With his 21st long-feature movie , Truffaut wanted to pay a tribute to one of his masters , Sir Alfred Hitchcock and also to the detective films with which he grew up . The Truffaut insiders surely know that he was a big fan of the master of suspense , in the 1960's , Truffaut published a book in which through a series of interviews , he related the work he did in his prestigious filmography . In our present movie , Hitchockian references are evident with , for example winks at " Rear Window " ( 1954 ) ( Truffaut's favorite film from Hitchcock ) or " Dial M For Murder " ( 1954 ) . And some objects play a vital role for the evolution of the plot like in some Hitchcock's works : the telephone among others . Truffaut's movie conciliates two sub genres of the detective film : the whodunit and the film noir ( the film takes place in the south of France where it is usually sunny , but here quite a lot of scenes takes place at night ) enjoys a solidly structured plot with the usual ingredients of the genre : wrong culprit , shady places , a gripping investigation with the scattering of clues revealing Barbara's past and leading to the resolution of the plot . Actually , one could have an inkling about Barbara's and her lover's murderer . What matters is why he killed them . Then Truffaut's work is also served with genteel camera work and especially there's humor which isn't in general his forte . But here , it works . My favorite moment would be ( when Barbara is in front of the brothel : a passer-by : " Excuse me . How Much ? " Barbara : " Pardon ? " " How much ? " , " it's twenty-five to eight " . And of course , Truffaut couldn't make a work without inserting movie-loving details . The cinema plays the Stanley Kubrick film : " Paths of Glory " ( 1958 ) . The cast ? It's immaculate . Fanny Ardant ( Mrs Truffaut at the time ) is excellent as well as Jean Louis Trintignant . But the rest of the cast doesn't stay on the bench . Each actor who acts a colorful character makes his or her part count . What is puzzling is that Truffaut hated Sundays . It's mysterious why he entitled his last movie with something he disliked . Was he contemplating retirement ? Perhaps not since after , he wrote the script for " la Petite Voleuse " which was about to be directed by Claude Miller in 1988 with gratifying results . But Fanny Ardant sighs in the film : " I can't wait to be on Sunday " . It's true that in the film , it's a complete change of life . She acts more like a detective than a secretary and it may be grueling to try to resolve a mystery . So , Sunday is eagerly awaited . Anyway , Truffaut began his cinema career with an overrated work , " les 400 coups " . He will have ended it with a buoyant one .
A great moment of French TV	Stellio Lorenzi , who passed away some years ago , was one of the French masters of the made - for-TV work . He was interested in history and his films often dealt with characters from the past . " The Rosenberg " is a different matter since it was not part of the French history . This is to my knowledge the first movie which was made about these victims of McCarthysim . Sydney Lumet made one in the eighties ( " Daniel " ) but the names were changed and their story was something from the past which their son remembered , and Ethel Rosenberg was featured in the made - for-TV " Citizen Cohn - ( James Woods ' s fans remember ) . Stellio Lorenzi's work is a very long one , divided into two parts . The first one is interspersed with TV news of the time - I remember actor Robert Taylor appears and says that the commies should all be killed - . The second one depicts the trial , the final days and the attempts a lot of countries around the world made to save them from the electric chair . Alain Decaux who wrote the screenplay is a famous French historian . Gilles Segal and Marie - José Nat gave moving performances .
Les mémoires d'un âne	During the nineteenth century , the comtesse de Segur wrote a novel for the children called " memoirs of a donkey " . A very pious writer , she chose the donkey as a symbol of humility . . . as Robert Bresson did I suppose . The very first pictures of the movie , with the children , " christening " the donkey , might be a nod to the writer whom the young Bresson , like all his generation must have read when he was a young boy . " Au hasard Balthazar " is an updated version of " les memoires d'un ane " , but a very austere story : although Bresson's work enjoys a very high rating on the site , I must say that it's not for all tastes . I cannot imagine , say , a " matrix " fan getting enthusiastic about it . Bresson's actors are non - professionals - with the exception of Anne Wiazemski , but it was her debut ; then she became the par excellence intellectual actress , for the likes of Godard , Tanner and Garrel , all directors that easily make me yawn my head off - , but do not expect a " natural " performance . I hope the non-French speaking who wrote a comment saw the movie in French with English subtitles . Dubbed in another language , Bresson's works lose a lot of their originality . Because the actors speak in a distant voice , in a neutral style as if they were reciting Descartes's " the Discourse on Method " . They never show any emotion , even through their darkest hour ( not even after the heroine's rape ) . Bresson films his human characters as if they were Martians , and his sympathy for the donkey is the only pity he has to give us . This beast of burden seems to carry on its back all the sins of the world , and his route is a calvary . A woman says " this donkey is a saint " . Bresson showed us the Beast in Man and the Man in Beast .
Give peace a chance	A small village in France . Tired German soldiers are here . They know they have lost the war and they are waiting to surrender as the Americans are getting closer . But near the village , there are the resistant fighters : their country has been humiliated for four years and they need a revenge . Jean-Claude Tacchella , who wrote the script and would become a director - whereas Jean Dewever's career was short-lived ( he mainly worked for TV ) - uses the two languages , German and French , which gives credibility to his story . German soldiers are disheartened and they sometimes rebel against their non-coms . One of them goes as far as saying " should you order me not to believe in God anymore , I would not ! " The French are not shown in a flattering light . It seems that some of them are " new " resistant fighters who , unlike the true ones , have waited that danger becomes minimal . The long scene of the wedding banquet , complete with songs including the perennial " On N'A Pas Tous les jours Vingt Ans " , and where some of them have grotesque romantic affairs did not please the censorship : the movie was released in July 1962 , after the Evian agreement for a narrow audience . It was a far cry from " Le Père Tranquille " " La Chatte " or " Babette S'En Va - T-En Guerre " , all those efforts who glorify the country . Actually those people having a wild time are dancing on a volcano . The smallest thing might spark off the incident . Jean Dewever did not show the last pictures , except for a dog killed by a stray bullet . The Honors of war ? The horrors of war , more like !
from zero to hero	Francis Veber hasn't only written and directed for himself , he has also penned scenarios for the others . Thus , he well served Edouard Molinaro for " l'Emmerdeur " ( 1972 ) , Pierre Granier-Deferre with " Adieu Poulet " ( 1975 ) and Jean-Jacques Annaud with this " Coup De Tête " . Shot before more ambitious plans would come to his mind ( " le Nom De la Rose " , 1986 or " l'Ours " , 1988 ) , this film ferociously demystifies football and as it's a very popular game in France , it was a refreshing , necessary gesture even if the film didn't do very well at the French box-office for evident reasons : it lingered on the other side of the picture . From the outset with the choice of the scenery ( the film was shot in Auxerre , a famous town for its football team ) the first steps of the plot and the role of the characters , the authors ' intentions are clear : to seal an alliance between entertainment and onslaught . This is what underpins the film . Through François Perrin's ( Patrick Deweare ) fall and rise , Annaud and Veber vent their spleens on the unscrupulous leaders of the football club and the shameless actions or schemings they adopt to preserve their interests or their players ' . Violence , bribery , blackmail and the manipulative power they exert towards the players , the supporters even the population make the object of a specific , eloquent demonstration to amount to a simple , efficient denunciation . And when Stéphanie reveals what lies beneath the false rape accusation that hangs over Perrin , the attack is doubly intense . The plot deftly incorporates these doubtful actions and is helped by a laid-back Patrick Deweare who brews revenge in his glory hour . Perhaps Veber and Annaud should have more insisted on his bad temper . Another tawdry aspect of football will be explored by Jean-Pierre Mocky in his " a Mort l'Arbitre ! " ( 1984 ) : blind fanaticism that can grab rabid supporters and lead them to murder .
Fine rendering of the Rendell work .	When he's at his best , that is to say when his movies deal with childhood / parenthood ( " la classse de neige ) or the difficult passage from adolescence to adult age ( " la meilleure façon de marcher " , his towering achievement , and " l'effrontée " ) , Claude Miller makes really strong films . Whereas his adaptation of Patricia Highsmith ( " this sweet sickness " aka " dites-lui que je l'aime " ) was downright disappointing , his foray into Ruth Rendell is highly successful . First of all , this novel was tailor-made for him : it's a movie about monstrous love , self-love for the grandmother ( a never better Nicole Garcia ) , painful love for the young mother ( Kimberlain ) , absence of love for Seigner's character in a story revolving around children . Rendell's novels are very complex , involving many characters , who brush against one another more than they meet ; sometimes , it takes a long time before we know the connection between them . But Miller succeeds brilliantly in his adaptation : he devotes each character a " chapter " ( hence the title ) " Betty's story " " Joseph's story " etc . In Rendell's work , like in Highsmith's , the frontier between the " culprits " and the " innocents " is very vague and we never know which ones will get away . Minor critic : the actor playing Alex is not very credible because he's not really the looks of a gigolo .
Long walk home .	This is one of the most desperate of John Ford's movies , and in spite of its optimistic conclusion , we do know that the true ending will be much more atrocious . ( After all , it's not Winter yet ) . Such terrible is the Cheyennes's plight that Ford made some kind of anti-epic whereas a lesser talent would have put the emphasis on the spectacular scenes , with turgid music . The score actually recalls some kind of dirge . These Indians dragging themselves under the burning sun or in the snow are like Mosis's people longing for the promised land . But unlike the Jews , their Gods seem to have completely forgotten them . The young quaker ( Baker ) who befriends the Indians and the virtuous officer played by Widmark are the only white people who help them : they are Ford's spoke persons . " If I left them , I would become a deserter " says the schoolteacher . Widmark's last line ( to a young Indian girl ) is : " your country ! " . I would have given a 9 if the James Stewart scenes had been deleted . It's minor quibbling . " Cheyenne Autumn " is also " Ford Autumn " for it's his last western and one of his last works . A moving swansong .
Whose life is it anyway ?	1950 was the year of euthanasia , at least in French cinema . Two movies dealt with this harsh difficult much-debated subject : André Cayatte's " Justice est faite " and Richard Pottier's " Meurtres " . Richard who ? Richard Pottier ! An unfairly overlooked director who did not produce masterpieces but made decent interesting works . His " Fanfare d'amour " - which is impossible to see in France nowadays , a DVD please ! - was remade by Billy Wilder as " some like it hot " . His " Caroline Cherie " , funny amorous adventures , was the forerunner of the " Angelique " saga in the sixties . His detective films were not bad either ( " la Ferme aux Loups " " Les Caves du Majestic " ) . But " Meurtres " will probably remain his finest achievement . The subject ( euthanasia ) was more than daring at the time . Whereas Andre Cayatte ( " Justice est faite " ) remained mysterious about the heroine's intentions ( did she try to put an end to her mistress's suffering or did she want to latch on to a substantial amount of dough earlier ? ) , Richard Pottier and his writer ( Henri Jeanson : who else ? ) are not afraid to make us attend the whole thing : the wife's intense suffering , the helpless husband ; her plea : " sooner or later , I'm gonna die ; please give me an injection " ; her death as she tries to thank her husband but she cannot speak anymore . The husband ( one of Fernandel's rare tragic performances : he is prodigious ) was a schoolteacher's son . His father bled himself dry for his three sons : two of them made their way of life : a lawyer and a doctor but the third one ( Fernandel ) stayed with his dear father till his death and has modestly lived since . The sequence when Fernadel talks about his daddy is extremely moving . In direct contrast to him , we have his brothers : two mean bourgeois so called respectable men , with hateful wives ( one of them is dumb , the other disdainful ) . When the desperate brother wants to give himself up , they are not prepared to accept it : better sending him to an insane asylum ! Once again , Henri Jeanson's lines spit out their venom . " They have two shrinks : the first one tries to find the touch of reason in a mad patient's mind ; the second tries to find the touch of madness in a sane patient's mind . " Guess which one the brothers will choose . These brothers and their wives think that only their lives are worth preserving : the others , who cares ? who cares if a home nurse is sent to jail ? who cares if a sane man is sent to a hospital for the rest of his life ? Richard Pottier's film could be as dark as Allégret's , Duvivier's , Decoin's or Clouzot's films noirs , if it weren't for the hero's niece , wonderfully played by Jeanne Moreau . She's on the unfortunate's hero side , she refuses bourgeois conventions , and she predates woman's lib by almost twenty years . " Meurtres " : not to be missed .
Hello Mister Chips !	Some people will dismiss this movie as reactionary , cheesy , old hat , old fashioned , you name it . I do not buy it . I love Mister Chippings alias Mister Chips . Hats off to MIster Donat , as talented when he portrays a very young man , fresh from the university as when he is acting an old man on the evening of his life . If this legend which says that when a person is about to die , then snatches of his whole life comes back to him , and he discovers that all is worthwhile in the end ( faces , words such as the infamous " Amadia " - or was it " Armada " ? - , woman's eyes , the child he'll never know , all those students who passed through his life , two ladies in a restaurant , the " one " somewhere in the Austrian mountains , the blue Danube , the dear Latin language , the four o clock teas of Mrs Chippings , but also the young ones who died in action in WW1 ) . At a time when teachers are often despised , Mr Chips is a reason to believe in the future and he is so much moving than John Keating and his dead poets society . He is himself a poet . Dig this line of Greer Garson : " teachers always live among the young ones : they never get old " . Like this ? try these . . . . . . The old gray line ( John Ford ) Mister Holland's opus ( Stephen Herek ) Merlusse ( Marcel Pagnol ) Up the down staircase . ( Mulligan ) Remade as a musical , with Peter O'Toole and Petula Clark , who portrays a lady with a racy past .
Unforgotten planet	A thing of the past , this movie sure is , but a charming one . Of course the special effects seem dated today but the screenplay shows much more imagination than , say , " star wars " . Some " modern " movies , like the very mediocre " sphere " took here a lot of ideas . I see snatches in " Mission to Mars " too . Along with the highly superior " invasion of the body snatchers " , it heralds the intelligent sci-fi which throve in the late sixties and early seventies with " planet of the apes " , " THX 1138 " ( A G . Lucas movie ! Had he continued in that vein . . . ) while giving the genre masterpiece , the unsurpassed " 2001 " before declining with " star wars " " ET " and " close encounters of the third kind " , and dying with horrors like " Armaggedon " and " ID " . I ' d rather take Robby over " Star Wars " robots any day .
Neither Chabrolesque , nor nouvelle vague . . .	. . . This first effort , made on a shoestring budget , actually belongs to the old directors school and would not be out of place in , say , Duvivier's or Clouzot's brilliant filmographies . It even recalls Italian neorealism sometimes . Anyway , among all the directors of the otherwise a bit overrated new wave , Chabrol is the most accessible , the most palatable , particularly for those , like me , who do not give a damn about , say , Rohmer or Godard . The depiction of the Bourgeoisie which will begin with the follow-up " les cousins " ( with Brialy teaming with Blain again ) and will become Chabrol's trademark is absent here . Laffont is the only pure new wave actress : Brialy used to work with the " old " guard as well , and Blain ' s career really began with Julien Duvivier's unfairly overlooked and sensational " voici le temps des assassins " ( 1956 ) . The story is linear , with a lot of characters and a dash of melodrama thrown in - which is by no means new wavesque - . The rural milieu depiction will pave a reliable way for the highly superior " le boucher " ( 1969 ) . There's also a tendency to dwell on the sordid side of life . Outside the good cast , two scenes in a graveyard are impressive .
Before Agnès Varda , there was Jacqueline Audry .	. . . Probably the first important woman director France has ever known . Male chauvinism : her movies are very rarely broadcast on TV and her name is slowly fading . She often adapted Colette's works for the screen , but here , she tackles Jean-Paul Sartre , no less ! It's the philosopher's most famous drama ( with its immortal sentence : " l'enfer , c'est les autres " ( = Hell isother people ) . Audry had to cope with problems inherent to any adaptation of a play : she succeeded quite good by using flashbacks - like Mankiewicz would do for " suddenly last summer " - , and inventing a very brilliant first scene : Alan Parker might have seen the movie , because he uses the elevator in " Angel heart " ( 1987 ) the same way Audry did in 1954 . Most of all , she's got three convincing actors , two of whom are unfortunately forgotten today ( Gaby Sylvia was essentially a stage actress and Frank Villard was cast against type here : he was the tough male raider type : but convincing anyway ) . The third one is none other than the great Arletty : after " les enfants du paradis " , like so many others who " collaborated " during the occupation - her only sin was to fall in love with a German : she said afterwards " My heart is French , but my a . . is international ! " - she was blacklisted and when she could return , she was relegated to small parts - but she triumphed on the stage notably with Blanche's part in " streetcar named desire " - . " Huis clos " is one of her rare leading parts after the war . She outdoes herself here , playing lesbian Inès so intensely she's almost frightening and threatening . As historian Jean Tulard said " she was our best actress " " Huis clos " is really interesting and will reward you if you give it a chance . Three people ( alive or dead no matter ) tearing each others to pieces . If you like it , try " les jeux sont faits " another Sartre adaptation by Jean Delannoy
Maria Schell was miscast	Why Maria Schell ? If you have read Zola's masterpiece - " l'assommoir " the seventh of the Rougon Macquart saga , and one of the finest , surpassed only by " Germinal " - , you wonder why Clement chose her when the part was tailor made for Simone Signoret . On the other hand , Suzy Delair was the ideal Virginie Poisson , hypocrite venomous and vile . They say her buttocks were " dubbed " ( by Liliane Montevecchi's ) during the famous scene of the spanking ! René Clément did a good job even if his adaptation seemed sometimes tame and timid . Zola's depictions are so intense that it's hard to transfer them to the screen . But the " fête de Gervaise " , with the gargantuan meal comes close to fully recreate it , and it was not easy since in the book it spreads over about twenty pages . Despise some reservations , this is an unqualified must for good cinema lovers .
Sprawling	If you've seen this film several times ( and I guess it deserves it ) , you will notice that Jett Rink always remains in the periphery . Be he rich of poor , nice or hateful , young or old , he will always be a Nouveau Riche , this kind of people Jordan Benedict Jr cannot stand . JR is not present in the long prologue which takes place in Leslie's green country - which makes a stunning contrast to the giant Texas desert landscapes - , and he does not appear in the short anti-racist epilogue either . In all , I do not think that James Dean appears more than an hour in this three hours + work . Twice he tried to enter their milieu : when Luz Sr is killed , the bond which unites him with the Benedict family is broken ; it is not a matter a chance if he wants to marry another Luz ( Jr ) . Among James Dean's three famous films , " Giant " is probably the least interesting as far as he's concerned . He epitomizes the romantic rebellious youth ( his performances in " east of Eden " and " rebel without a cause " are part of the legend of cinema ) , so his face that has prematurely aged ( thanks to make up ) is not really nice to watch . The problem is the same for Elizabeth Taylor : casting young actors ( she was born in 1932 , Dennis Hopper who plays her son in 1936 ! ) in a story which stretches over thirty years is not easy . All that concerns the Benedict family is gripping . Jordan Jr ( Hudson ) is the most interesting : during all the movie , he is an unkind selfish macho man ; as long as Luz Sr ( Mercedes McCambridge ) lived , he was dominated by this matriarchal figure : later in the movie , there is an excellent scene where men are talking about politics and where women are invited to have coffee or herb tea ( " I'd rather go to bed " the educated suffragette Leslie yells ) . It will take Jordan Jr's marriage to a Mexican ( educated ) woman to make this wealthy man care for the others . My favorite scene is the " return " of the soldier ( Sal Mineo ) ; the train in the sunset then the funeral when two flags are given to the family : the Star-Spangled Banner and the Texan one .
The Father	Although referring to cortisone , " Bigger than life " is rayesque to the core . Davey ( " Run for cover " ) Plato and Jim ( " rebel without a cause " ) and the Chinese girl ( " 55 days at Peking " ) were in search of a father . Even the Jeff / Wes relationship in " lusty men " is of the same kind . Cortisone is just an alibi . The subject of the film is the paternal power . And this father is also a teacher ! The PTA meeting is revealing ! Richie has got a father . But there's a crack in the mirror ( Ed's broken reflection is the key to the movie ) . Little by little , we feel there's something irrational in his attitude . Buying clothes , It's very natural ! Playing football with your sonny , is a right thing to do to be good friends . But , thanks to James Mason's sensational performance , we feel ill-at-ease , even scared . This fear will culminate in the arithmetic lesson where Mason ' s shadow on the wall is terrifying ( when Barbara Rush enters the room , see her tiny shadow ! it's a lesson in directing a movie ) . And being a father is not far from being a God . After hearing again in the church the prodigal son story , it's only natural in Ed's case to feel like Abraham . ( His final dream - which we do not see - is extraordinary ) . It might be a warning against pills , drugs and all that stuff . But I rather think it's a warning against " overeducation " . As a teacher , I heard about a student's father who spent a WHOLE Saturday afternoon to make sure his unfortunate son did understand the multiples . Superb performance by James Mason ( the scene when his face suddenly appears in the mirror as his boy is searching his room is really spooky ) , good support from Barbara Rush , Walter Matthau and young Christopher Olsen .
Inconnu Au Bataillon	Here's another eloquent example of an actress who decided to show her potential as a female director : Zabou Breitmann also known as Zabou , full stop . The topic of her premier film gives the inkling that she doesn't fear thorny subjects . Indeed , Alzeihmer's disease and the loss of memory are rather way off cinema's radar . But it's a film to remember which is also a prime example that love can be strong and survive to any disease . " Se Souvenir Des Belles Choses " is split into two parts . The first one takes place in the institution for people with troubled memory . Before the anticipated meeting between the two lovers that Zabou delays , she takes her time to relate and describe life conditions in this institution for the sick people and the team of doctors and nurses . She delivers a not so despondent and warm description of this place and grants a meaty place to humor and tenderness . The second part starts with the returning of Christine and Philippe in the normal world and as the latter bit by bit recovers his memory , Christine's disease gathers pace and makes her lose her marks and collapse . These are two parts that follow each other and complement themselves . The serious problem of Alzeihmer's disease is explored without tawdry fascination or unhealthy complacency but with a minimum of objectivity and lucidity . A good proportion of sequences or details directly or indirectly linked to it ring true like the instructions left on the white board or recorded on a tape for Christine or in the institution with these strips of colors indicating the way to specific places . Zabou also didn't forget the people's dangerous behaviors facing sick people with Alzeihmer's disease . See the sequence in the supermarket when Christine's mother gives her a meeting in a precise place and poor Christine loses herself . Zabou was right to give the main role to Isabelle Carré whose role propelled her in the restrained circle of the new young luminaries of contemporary French cinema alongside Sylvie Testud among others . She gives a startling performance supported by Bernard Campan who managed to make me forget that he was once part of this irresistible comic trio the Inconnus . For their fans , who could have thought among them that he was able to act a man at a loss with a great credibility whereas he was so far usually typecast in comical roles ? The female director Zabou relegated herself in a secondary role of analyst and her love affair with the director acted by Bernard Le Coq is one of the tiny glitches her film shelters which make it ( the film ) impossible to reject . This is one to remember .
Irish heartbeats	Although the film has a running time of two hours + , for it tells the story of a man's entire life , from his enlistment ( and even before ) to his old age , there is never a dull moment . John Ford was one of the most wonderful storytellers that ever was . The first part of the film is made of trivia , but everything is endearing , moving . Take the dad's and the brother's arrival : no syrupy violins and choirs needed : the Irish are doing Mary's cooking justice and they are not in a hurry to hug Marty . The same goes for Marty / Mary when they fall in love : what could be more down to earth than this kitchen ? And however something vibrates , as the love they all feel for the country they left behind . The second part deals with wars and if the tone has changed , the spirit remains intact : what could be more prosaic than burning Mary's toilet to celebrate the end of WW ? Although the hero experiments tragedy , Ford always avoids pathos and melodrama : the child's death during the celebration is given a sober treatment . Mary's passing is perhaps the most beautiful scene in the whole movie , being Fordesque to the core ( remember the death of the mother in " three godfathers " ) and her fleeting reappearance at the very end of the movie is not irrelevant . A life is made of small joys and big griefs .
Autant - Lara's career path	Fact 1 : Claude Autant-Lara's mother was a pacifist activist . She was a thespian of la Comedy Française and she was fired because of her opinions in WW1 . She was even jailed . When it was released , " le Diable au Corps " caused a scandal ; well-meaning people were saying that the Army , the Red Cross , the soldiers and their wives were dragged through the mud . Autant Lara was a rebel at the time : conformism was not his way , as such works as " Douce " had already shown . Raymond Radiguet's novel was tailor made for him . Gerard Philipe was too old for the part : he was supposed to be 17 , and he was actually born the same year as his co-star Micheline Presles ! That's why such lines as " When you're young , I'll be old " cannot be taken too seriously by those who know the two French actors . But anyway Philippe's youthful looks can delude people quite well . The film is a long flashback , with a prologue , a scene in the middle of the film and an epilogue in the present . François attends her lover's funeral . Autant-Lara , who was first a film editor , makes the best of the sound effects and the fuzziness of the pictures when he introduces the three long flashbacks . This woman was married to a soldier gone to war . Lines have warned us before the cast and credits ; in brief , this is par excellence a romantic movie ; some scenes are quite remarkable : - The lovers in front of the fireplace , then boating on the lake where they are not sheltered from the outside world . - The landing-stage , which plays a prominent part in the story : when she leaves , it may be the last goodbye ; the night they pretend they did not come to the rendezvous ( and they both did ) . - Marthe's coffin taken out of the church , when the crowd cries out of joy , rejoices and applauds . Is it to celebrate the Armistice or to the adulteress ' death . " Now , it's women's turn to die " a man yells . FACT2 : in the late fifties , A . L . , who had not yet lost his bite , planned to make a movie about a burning subject : the contentious objector " Tu ne tueras Point " . Gerard Philippe had agreed to play the lead , but he died before the movie could begin to be filmed ( the censorship was harsh in the Algeria War years ) and was replaced by Laurent Terzieff . As an user points out , " Le Diable Au Corps " seems to have vanished into thin air . It has not been screened for years ( more than 20 years ) . Is it because of the remake ? Or like " Tu ne Tueras Point " which was never broadcast , is the subject still too scandalous ? FACT 3 : A . L could never get over the Nouvelle Vague's ( and others ) attacks and if my memory serves me well , he gave some of his works to the Swiss government - " cause there ( France ) they ignore me , they despise me " - Like an user wrote , he did support the far right wing circa 1980 till his death . ( in spite of such works as " Le Franciscain de Bourges " ( 1967 ) an extraordinary performance by Hardy Kruger playing a Nazi priest , a saint in a living hell )
Beautiful Gesture .	People who know Julien Duvivier's " la bandera " ( 1935 ) will find analogies between the two movies . In both of them , the legion is an escape from law . The approach is different however : in " la bandera " , the hero and his mates are simple , crude people . In Wellmann's work , they are distinguished , " noblesse oblige " characters . Wellman's movie has a romantic flavor , which is totally absent in Duvivier's pessimistic story . It seems that " beau geste " has worn well , better than Duvivier's dated saga . Both movies have the same flaw : the Tuaregs are the " villains " , we absolutely know nothing about them . In Duvivier's movie , we don't even see them , and they are always referred to as " the bastards " ( sic ) They seem reduced to attacking baddies , an entity whose humanity is denied . Wellmann's superiority lies in the fact that he plays the game of adventure , now matter how unlikely it is while Duvivier has " realist " ambitions . Wellmann smartly blends a whodunit with pure adventure elements . The solution of the mystery , which we learn at the very end of the movie is very unexpected and gives the movie some kind of Hustonian touch ( and in 1939 , Huston had yet to make a movie ! ) As for the directing is concerned , the last third of the movie shines . If the legion routine life scenes inside the fort are inferior to those of Duvivier , on the other hand its finale is more moving and more astonishing . The sergeant , using dead bodies as scarecrows , is almost surrealist and might have influenced the conclusion of Anthony Mann's " Cid " . A scene we saw at the beginning , " the Viking funeral " finds an absolutely brilliant explanation . While John ( Ray Milland ) is preparing the " ceremony " in a fort full of dead bodies , we don't realize . It's only when he explains to his brother ( yes , there was a dog at his feet ) that we understand . A very fine cast , including Susan Hayward on the threshold of a brilliant career ( it's her second movie ) . The title is justified too . Because " Beau Geste " means in French " Beautiful gesture " . NB : A trip to Norway taught me this : the Vikings were buried in the ground on their boats .
The talented Mister Pascal .	Marcel Lherbier , like his colleague Abel Gance , made his most celebrated and acclaimed films in the silent era . Among all his talkies , only " La Nuit Fantastique " can be really looked upon as a classic . " Feu Mathias Pascal " is a curious film , depicting a character whose only wish in life is freedom . First part depicts his family life , with his sweet mother , his wife whose love will not last long and his mother-in-law , a shrew . It contains great scenes such as the depiction of the old library where rats come to nibble at the books . Although it's a PIrandello-inspired story , the scene when Mathias puts his dead baby into her dead mom's hands is Dickensian : it recalls this end of chapter when David Copperfield says farewell to her mother Clara Murstone they lay in her grave with his half brother in her arms . The weak part of the story is the short transitions between the two parts which takes place in the casinos of Monte Carlo , a place best depicted in Erich Von Stroheim's " Foolish wives " ( 1921 ) . The second part could be subtitled " the liberty years " : On his way home , Mathias reads the newspapers and discovers that " his dead body was found " . So he come back to Rome , where he has not got an identity anymore . This second segment often verges on fantasy and horror with a séance in the dark , and the " ghost " who scares the hero's in-law . The ending when the hero visits his grave is the definitive step to freedom . The last picture is Chaplinesque . Michel Simon makes two appearances as the hero's good friend who marries his wife when they all believe he is dead .
Heart of gold	" Awake " deserves better than its average rating . It's a very impressive thriller , very far-fetched , with more implausibilities than you can think of , but who cares ? Who will call " Die Hard 1 , 2 , 3 . . . " realistic ? It is the first time someone has destroyed the hackneyed cliché of the over possessive mother . You will probably understand the reason why before it's revealed but anyway the prologue almost let the cat out of the bag . The whodunit is not important , it's the situation , the horrible situation of the hero on the operating table which matters . It's one of our hidden fears ( like the one depicted by Poe in " burried alive " ) to be awake , when they are butchering you . This situation is not actually new ; remember the dozens of war movies or westerns when they operate on a patient , not under anesthesia : generally either he is given a bottle of whiskey or he faints . But it's almost an anachronism in reverse to see that happen in one of the most modern hospitals of the city . The " tunnel " concept is much more convincing than in Kevin Costner's " Dragonfly " with good scenes between Lena Olin and Hayden Christensen . Like this ? try these . . . . . " Jacob's ladder " Adrian Lyne , 1990 " Coma " Michael Crichton , 1977
From ignorance to enlightenment .	First scene ( shot in color ) : Cleo visits the fortune-teller : ignorance , confusion . Last scene : Cleo is a responsible woman now , she's ready to cope with a not-so-rose future : enlightenment . Between the scenes , one hour and a half ( the title is a misnomer ) . Historically , it's not the first film whose story unfolds in real time ( see Robert Wise : the set up ) . But the concept is here totally mastered . At the beginning of the movie , Cleo is a precious , soft , selfish young girl . The fortune-teller epitomizes naïvete , a non-scientific attitude . And however , the lady says something important when Cleo draws a skeleton from the tarot pack : " do not panic , the arms and the legs are still covered with flesh . Your own being is about to change deeply . " The fortune tells that to comfort Cleo - later she'll tell her husband " cards say " death ! " , and as for me I've seen cancer " - and the end would prove she was right though . After leaving the fortune-teller , Cleo meets some people , most of them indifferent , she cannot communicate her anguish to any of them . Everybody ' s busy about himself . They listen to her , but they can't hear her . Then she takes her black glasses off ! It's a symbol , now she's ready to see the world as it is . She meets Antoine , he's a soldier about to return to Algeria to fight in a dirty war . Both are afraid , both have found the comfort they needed so ! Now Cleo has opened up , she can face the terrible illness . " I'm not afraid anymore , she says , I think that I'm happy "
and ends with brilliant results	" Batman " was created by Bob Kane in 1939 and in the sixties , a wacky version with gaudy colors was shot . The Batman saga was revived by Tim Burton and it started under auspicious skies with the two following novel chapters : " Batman " ( 1989 ) and " Batman Returns " ( 1992 ) . With the arrival of Joel Schumacher , the series plumbed . " Batman Forever " ( 1995 ) and " Batman and Robin " ( 1997 ) were real downers which tarnished Batman's reputation . Due to this , Gotham City's most well-known inhabitant took refuge in his den and waited for things to evolute . In the meantime , he was upstaged by other superheroes like " Spiderman " . Was there a future for Kane's son ? Rather than pouncing on the elaboration of a new adventure ( at one point , one even talked about the possibility of a story called " Batman vs Superman " ) , why not plumping for a streak which has been seizing the Hollywood firm for several years ? Just look at the titles of the following works : " the Exorcist : the Beginning " ( 2004 " or recently " the Texas Chainsaw Massacre : the Beginning " ( 2006 ) . These titles give this inkling : to go back to the sources and roots and unearth what made Batman a myth . Like many moviegoers on this site , when I learned that Christopher Nolan was the heir of this work , I felt that the project was in good hands . I'm not a fan of his " Memento " ( 2000 ) but I recognize that he's a canonical filmmaker and this was largely conducive to Batman's rehabilitation . The storyline is apparently slick on the surface , but in depth it conceals several directions . More than half of the storytelling is based on Bruce Wayne's psychological turmoil , His trip in the world to forget the traumatizing death of his parents under his eyes . His apprenticeship and learning to gain trust and knowledge and to try to overcome his demons and to put a term to his weaknesses . As Liam Neeson puts it : " you are afraid of your own strength " . But eventually , the young man will have recourse to his own fears to fight fear ! To admire the hero , you'll have to be very patient for one can't see him before almost the half of the film . The second half which sees the young cape crusader going back to Gotham City to make justice triumph and creating some of his gadgets which cemented his popularity like the " Batmobile " is more devoted to action sequences . These thrilling moments keep a very reserved feeling to insist that Batman is a flesh and blood protagonist . It is more embellished by a restricted use of special effects . But Nolan and his scenarist didn't put aside rigor and construction . The development of the story is fantastic as one could wish with twists , turns to keep the audience interested . Apparently the scarecrow wants to command Gotham City but the biggest villain isn't necessarily the one you can think of . Even " Batman Begins " is a typical Hollywood product , it is earmarked of Nolan's touch . The filmmaker deftly introduces flashbacks at the right time and sometimes flashbacks inside flashbacks ! And Nolan once said that he liked to oppose the subjectivity of a character to the objectivity of the world . This declaration could make sense in one of the thrusts developed in the film : many inhabitants in Gotham City may think that justice is lost but Bruce Wayne / Batman is back and here to stay to convince them that it's not dead . The setting helps to capture this and Nolan's own ominous vision of the city : a Gotham City shrouded with a gritty urban realism and in which bribery and violence easily propagate due to the power of the underworld . This assumed perspective breaks out in the apocalyptic end of the film which in a certain extent harks back to George Romero's cult film " the Night of the Living Dead " ( 1968 ) with the population wandering in a hazy , artificial fog in the throes of fear and madness . Thanks to Nolan's stringent brio , these different levels in the scenario and in the directorial style are combined to amount to a meshed , well-rounded poise shot without alacrity . An overlong movie ( 2h 20 minutes ) but the length eludes the viewer . For this resurrection of Batman , Nolan gathered a stellar cast . Every actor slips into his or her role in an unselfconscious way . Christian Bale can preen himself on having got the role of his life and he has never been so much better than here . Michael Caine brings a mix of complicity and mischievousness to the butler Alfred and I have a preference for Cilian Murphy whose cynicism and deadly charm have positively devastating effects . For Nolan , the transition from a " film d'auteur " to a Hollywood blockbuster wasn't knotty at all and even if the whole seems easy , it's very bracing . So thank you Mr . Nolan for having re gilded Batman's credibility . The follow-up is currently under way . Let's hope it will showcase the same high standard of quality .
Hello stranger !	This film is another definitive proof that the FRench cinema did not begin , as too many people innocently think , with Robert Bresson or the Nouvelle Vague . " Un revenant " has everything : a dream of a cast where Jouvet is of course the stand-out : just hearing him speak is just a joy , his ironical vengeful voice makes this work unwatchable if it is dubbed ; supporting actors are up to scratch : Gaby Morlay was probably never better as Genevieve , a woman who accepted a compromise solution and whose life is definitely lost ; Jean Brochard and Louis Seigner shine in their parts of mean bourgeois , the latter not afraid of marrying his only son with an ugly bubble head girl to assure the prosperity of his business ; François Périer is the perfect romantic young lead , reading Goethe's " Werther " , and epitomizing the youth which the fifty-something around him have never known ; Ludmilla Tcherina is as competent as a gorgeous bitch as she is as a ballerina ( she was a real " Danseuse Etoile de l'Opera de Paris " ) ; and last by not least , Marguerite Moreno , one of the French Monstres Sacrés , as the rich childless auntie . Remarkable sequences : Jean-Jacques ( Jouvet ) , coming into his bedroom after twenty years ; the same , painting a picture of the young François ( Périer ) as he looks at the things the boy keeps in his room ; the sensational part in the opera theater , where all the characters gather for the show , which does not really take place on stage ; Geneviève looking through her opera glasses and saying goodbye to the posh despicable world she ' s still part of ; François looking at the whirling group of ballerinas from the flies , and falling ; The aunt ' s final soliloquy when she confesses she expects nothing from the great beyond ; and more . . . Henri Jeanson steeps his pen in venom and writes some of his most brilliant lines . Jouvet / Jeanson who had already worked wonders in previous movies ( the most famous example being Carné's " Hotel du Nord " ) team up for the very best , under Christian-Jaque's masterful directing . " Un Revenant " , which was given four stars ( out of four ) in the " Dictionnaire des Films " is a must for everyone interested in the evolution of the French cinema .
Farewell to the second golden era .	Claude Chabrol started as part of the nouvelle vague , as contemporary of Truffaut and - yuk ! - Godard , but his roots are in the old cinema , that of Clouzot and Duvivier . That's why his best movies hold up very well today . A first golden era included such works as " à double tour " " le beau Serge " and " les cousins " . Then came a period of barren inspiration which ended with " les biches " ( 1967 ) with which Chabrol entered his most fruitful period the 1967-1973 era : at least five of the works of this time are first-rate works : " la femme infidel " ( 1968 ; dubious American remake ) ; " the beast must die " ( 1969 ) ; " the butcher " ( 1969 ) his towering achievement ; " la rupture " ( 1970 ) his most underrated ; " juste avant la nuit " ( 1971 ) and finally " les noces rouges " which seems today as the last hurrah , a farewell to a golden era . Unlike the four other films I mention " les noces rouges " is based on a true story which was widely talked about in France of the early seventies . But , true or not , Chabrol's touch is strong and he makes the story a chabrolesque plot to the core . The bourgeois whom Chabrol depicted in " la femme infidel " or " la rupture " , and who was played by Michel Bouquet has turned into a caricature . Enter Claude Piéplu , and with his high-pitched voice , he almost overshadows the excellent Stephane Audran and Michel Piccoli . An impotent self-satisfied mean bourgeois with political ambitions , he accepts his wife's ( Audran ) affair with his deputy mayor ( Piccoli ) , more , it's fine with him because it will be useful for his shady business . The scene when he tells the lovers so is incredible ; lines such as " I want everybody to be happy around me ! " he delivers to a stunned Piccoli and a bewildered Audran give goose pimples . You will notice the omnipresence of water : in " que la Bete meure " and " le boucher " , it symbolized a return from hell , not necessarily a happy end but a world with some peace of mind . In " les noces rouges " it appears during the love scenes ( played by the two actors with more gusto than usual : never in a Chabrol movie the carnal act had been - and will be-so much to the fore ) as a symbol of innocence ( after all , the two people have no sex with their legal partners ) in the sin . But it's the heroine's daughter , called Helene , who epitomizes innocence and some kind of deus ex machina . What's more puzzling is that Stephane Audran's characters were all called Hélène in the four other movies I mention : in " la femme infidel ' Helene had a lover but with some excuse : her husband appeared like a washout sexually ; in " le boucher " she was a brave schoolteacher , purity flesh on the bone ; in " la rupture " her character had to fight against a hostile bourgeois world . In " les noces rouges " Audran , called Lucienne , is on the other side of the mirror : she really becomes a criminal , almost in a dream . When her daughter , Hélène , who took the place she occupied in former movies asks her " I want you to be happy , mom , please tell me the truth " Audran does not seem to realize all that means . And when she does , it will be too late . Les noces rouges " is also a movie which depicts political life circa 1970 in a small town where gossips run rampant . And as usual , Chabrol is marvelous when it comes to paint vignettes of ordinary life - see the scene in the library-It would take Chabrol five years to muster this sort of command ( " Violette Nozieres " ( 1978 ) ) , and although he has occasionally made great works ( " l'enfer " " la cérémonie " ) , he will be remembered in fifty years or so for those gems of the late sixties / early seventies era . " Les noces rouges " is a must .
The most beautiful years of our lives	The first film made up of sketches made by different directors . ( unlike Duvivier's works ) . All deal with the return of prisoners in their native France after WW2 . Of course the quality is uneven , but all are perfectly acceptable , some highly commendable . SEGMENT ONE : The return of Aunt Emma or " Will evil never end ? " Aunt Emma comes back from the Concentration camps . Her psyche is shot , she's lying on a bed , she hardly utters one word , and she has only eaten a " Petit Beurre " ( French biscuit ) . . Enter her family : they seem to come from a Maupassant short novel . False smiles , false compassion , false emotion . Gaston ( Blier ) seems the good guy whereas Gaston ( Lucien Nat ) seems despicable . But all in all , both strive towards the same aim : make pitiful aunt Emma sign the papers so that they ' ll be able to latch on to their inheritance . This is Charles Spaak at his most ferocious and André Cayatte's directing is up to scratch . The way he films aunt Emma is stunning and the last picture ( her face as the light fades out ) reveals all the horror she endured . . . no flashback needed . SEGMENT TWO : the return of Antoine or " eight women and more " Antoine ( François Périer ) finds again his job of a bartender in a hotel but the place was commandeered by an English all female regiment . Probably because of censorship , the story never takes off . Probably intended as a comic relief , it's not really funny , in spite of Périer's talent . SEGMENT THREE : the return of Jean or " horror is timeless " . By far the best short of the lot . HG Clouzot was a genuine genius of the cinema ; in his relatively small output , with the eventual exception of " Miquette et Sa Mère " , he never produced anything mediocre . In " the return of Jean , he's at the top of his game . Unlike the other sketches , this one is timeless and could happen anywhere any time . A more recent work such as Polanski's " Death and the maiden " deals with the same subject . A person who was wounded during the war , Jean , has become bitter and desperate . One day , in the boarding-house where he lives , a wounded German takes refuge . At first , against all odds , returning good for evil , he wants to help him ; but his pal , the doctor , tells him he was a torturer . Still , Jean wants to know WHY a man can act like he did : so they give him morphine and a terrifying dialog begins . . . Clouzot's lines are hard , dissecting the darkness of the human soul , and finally coming up against the terrible question : why ? By far the best of the whole movie , Louis Jouvet's performance will leave you on the edge of your seat . SEGMENT FOUR The return of René or " the known soldier " The two final segments are by Jean Dreville who cannot match Clouzot's brilliance , but who makes decent efforts . René is the 1500th soldier to come home so it's cause for celebration . Best moments come at the beginning ; the speech , by a government representative , sounds hollow : the man who probably waged war in his office has no idea of the sufferings endured by the humble soldiers ; then those present rush to the buffet where they make a clean sweep of wine and biscuits . René finds his wife gone ( but do not worry , the Concierge says , she ' s gone with a resistant , not with a collaborator ! ) and his apartment occupied by a family . But , like the fifth segment , it will end on a note of hope , after all , the 1949 audience was in need of optimism . SEGMENT FIVE : The return of Louis or " guess who's coming to dine " Louis is welcomed at the railway station by his mother and the mayor of his village . But he is not alone . He ' s got a wife with him and she's German ! With hindsight , it seems normal , but if you had been in those people's shoes , you might have thought the same . Louis and his wife become outcasts - Louis's sister's husband was killed during the war - and their life becomes unbearable . Serge Reggiani shines all along the sketch and , with the staggering exception of Jouvet's , gives the finest performance of " Retour à la Vie " . That said , the ending is melodramatic to a fault , but once again , it was necessary to conclude on a happy note .
A face in the crowd	One of the mavericks of the French cinema , Gerard Blain became famous with three great works , two of which ( " Le Beau Serge " " Les Cousins " ) belonged to the Nouvelle Vague whereas the third one was one of the masterpieces of the old one ( " Voici Le Temps Des Assassins " ) . The clues to his future as a director were not Claude Chabrol or Julien Duvivier though . His most notable influence in " Un Infant Dans La Foule " is arguably Robert Bresson . The amateurish acting of the actors who deliver their lines in a neutral voice , the sense of ellipsis , a voice over , all that reminds you of Bresson . " Un Infant Dans La Foule " is arguably the great lost masterpiece of the French seventies ; it was nominated at Festival De Cannes but it was a commercial failure . Since Pialat's " L'Enfance Nue " ( 1968 ) , nobody had made a so brutally honest movie . Blain , obsessed with personal pain , made a complete artistic statement of great courage and even candor . It tells about a teenager's rejection by the community during the days of the German occupation . Dry-eyed , it tells of a mother who can't hear his boy knocking on her door , of painful growing-up . We follow the boy as he helps the Resistant fighters just to make his mum love him . We see him wandering the streets where he is the only one to take pity on a " Femme Tondue " ( closely-cropped hair women , that was the populace did to women who slept with the enemy ) as the allies come near Paris . Is the boy gay or does he have affairs with men because he can provide his family with food ? It's impossible to answer in that context . We are beyond any moral and the boy's need for love is so intense he's looking for someone all along the movie . There is no hint at homosexuality , no risqué scene , all is suggested with an incredible sense of decency . In his absorbing memoirs " J'Ai Oublié DE Vous Dire " , Jean-Claude Brialy , who was Blain's co-star in " Le Beau Serge " and " Les Cousins " , wrote that he was sexually assaulted as an adolescent and that his hatred for homosexuals was strong . In this film , it does not show : neither the teacher nor the young man are " unkind " people ; actually they are " neutral " . The ending is simple but this kind of simplicity is absolutely mind-boggling : Boy : They are looking for extras for a movie ; maybe they'll take me . . . . Mother : What Film ? Boy : " Les Enfants Du Paradis " On the street , the boy meets a man who asks him for a light . This man is Gérard Blain himself . Gérard Blain was an extra for " Les Enfants Du Paradis " . A film crying to be watched .
Two masterpieces in a year .	In 1940 , Frank Borzage gave two great movies in a row . In these trouble times , it was a true tour de force to achieve that . " Strange cargo " and " mortal storm " are admirable works , works of redemption , full of compassion for the human race . Hats off to you , M . Borzage , you who are often ignored when they list their favorite directors . A user wrote that " strange cargo " was ahead of its time . It's so obvious that even now , it remains demanding , deep , and absorbing . When you see where the adventures movie has gone , the likes of Indiana and co , you wonder that some works like that have been produced . " Strange cargo " anticipates the cinema future . In several respects it's John Huston before John Huston , but with more faith in the human nature . I would go as far as saying the first part is some kind of Bunuel's " la mort en ce jardin " ( 1956 ) , but a Christian ( ! ) Bunuel . The users who saw the Spanish director ' s underrated film will be struck by the analogies between the two works . Gable's and Crawford ' characters resemble George Marchal's and Simone Signoret's in " la mort en ce jardin " . Or rather the other way about . The main difference is the indomitable faith in God that Cambreau displays in the whole movie . His face radiates like a Christ , and Ian Hunter outshines the two stars Gable and Crawford . His performance , subdued and sober , but always mesmerizing , fascinates . There are unforgettable scenes : the beach , where he opens the gates of eden for some kind of thief ; the cask of fresh water ; his strange predictions ; Clark Gable screaming " I'm God ! " after throwing him into the water . The movie often verges on fantastic , but a spiritual and sustained fantastic , not drivel such as " IJ and the last crusade " . " Strange cargo " was followed by " mortal storm " , which iseven more superior to it . Here , Borzage anticipates on Minnelli " the four horsemen of the Apocalypse " 1961 ) and Visconti ( la caditi degli dei 1969 ) . His love for the human race is still beaming : in a world gone mad where nazi hate oozes everywhere , there will be several Cambreau to heal the wounds : Mr . and Mrs Roth , Martin , Freya and the old Mrs Breitner . Do not miss his earlier works , pacifist ones of course : " three comrades " and " no greater glory " . Should they give a Nobel price of cinema , Frank Borzage would have been a strong contender in his lifetime .
They're my pals .	Never the timing for a movie had been so disastrous . Released in those " glorious " eighties when the success stories and the triumphalist heroes were the golden rule , " Ironweed " stood no chance at all . Two tramps did not fit well in the movie landscape of those " feel good " times . And two tramps played by two megastars , it was unforgivable ! The cast is stellar , but it's Meryl Streep whom I will remember FOREVER . When she sings her little tune " he's my pal " she's so heart-wrenching that she will move you to tears . " At least , I didn't betray anybody " she said . Although it was a colossal flop , Streep would only approach such an emotion afterwards . ( notably in " the bridges of Madison County " ) Nicholson was equally courageous to play such a demeaning part , and he gets strong support from Carroll Baker who proves here she can age gracefully . " Ironweed " is very hard to see nowadays . One of these days , it will be given the place it deserves .
Anouilh and Grémillon .	Immediate background : Jean Anouilh who wrote the screenplay was to direct the movie but he fell sick and had to give up . He chose Jean Grémillon , one of the great directors of the golden age of the FRench cinema ( 1935-1945 ) to do the job and he was right . Jean Grémillon gathered a splendid cast including Paul Bernard , as the fallen aristocrat ( " Pattes Blanches " ) , Fernand Ledoux , Suzy Delair at her bitchiest , and - the Chabrol fans will notice it - a very young Michel Bouquet as the squire's doomed brother , Sylvie and Arlette Thomas . This latter actress is completely forgotten today , but her part brings some hope in a desperate - most of Anouilh's plays are - story . Her character , a hunchback whom Odette ( Delair ) despises , resembles Cinderella , a miserable Cinderella ( check the admirable sequence in the castle ) . Another memorable scene shows the noble , on the edge of the cliff , holding Odette's bridal veil . Don't let the current rating fool you . " Pattes Blanches " , with its distraught lyricism , is a must .
I'm glad you couldn't .	" Spiral Staircase " was the horror masterpiece Robert Siodmak had always threatened to make . In 1939 , " Pièges " his last French movie and his finest - remade by Douglas Sirk as " lured " introduced the unusual places , the eerie atmosphere ( Von Stroheim's house ) . In 1944 , " Phantom Lady " from the great William Irish introduced the psychokiller . In 1946 , " the Dark Mirror " would continue the Freudian vein , which " Spiral staircase " had begun . It was not the first time a film had displayed Freudian accents . At the time , all the thrillers directors ( Fritz Lang , Alfred HItchcock ) had their movie dealing with psychoanalysis . Of course it's dated now . Almost all these catharsis revealed something buried in infancy / childhood . Even the " serious " works such " snake pit " were no exceptions . The black and white cinematography is stunning , dazzling , making the whole film a feast for the eye . If Siodmak takes the easy way out for his killer's identity , all that surrounds him is splendid indeed : Dorothy McGuire , in a theater , watching a silent movie ( she is a mute girl ) , while horrible things happen in a room upstairs , things not alike the conclusion of the movie and a sinister omen of events to come ; the ( Gothic , of course ) mansion where scared people flattens themselves after dark ; the park where the whispering trees generate fear ; the cellar where the pages of a book become an impending menace ; this extraordinary dreamlike sequence where MacGuire sees her wedding and this voice which keeps on repeating " Say : I do ! " ; the staircase , the central place of the story where the plot is resolved . " Spiral staircase " is essential viewing for anyone interested in thrillers . Remake by Peter Collinson in 1975 with Jacqueline Bisset . Like this ? Try these : - the three other Siodmak movies I mention . - " Mute witness " Anthony Waller 1994
an apparently trivial story transcended in a stylish treatment	" One of these days , I'm going to cut you into little pieces " ( Pink Floyd , One of These Days , Meddle , 1971 ) . I have often written in some reviews on this site that I wasn't a big fan of Quentin Tarantino , a cinema-going filmmaker with a mind-boggling culture . It's true that I have never been very taken with " Pulp Fiction " ( 1994 ) . As for " Kill Bill : Vol . 1 " , I had deemed it as " violent and hollow " . I maintain the first epithet but I jettison the second one now . I watched it again last Saturday night with its other brother " Kill Bill : Vol . 2 " ( that I hadn't seen before ) and I changed my mind about it . I realized that I had overlooked it and I would go as far as saying that I found it much better than Tarantino 1994 film . The staple story doesn't carry much weight . A wedding in the desert takes a tragic dimension when all the guests are killed except the Bride who spends four years in a coma . When she wakes up , she's got one sole word in her mind : revenge . On a scrap of paper , she noted down the names of the ones who made of her wedding a tragedy and is well determined to kill them all . She also keeps the best for the end : Bill . This story is for Tarantino almost a pretext to beef it up with sources coming from different horizons : comic strip , spaghetti western , samurai film and even video games in the elaboration of the fight sequences . And animated by a cinema passion , the filmmaker couldn't resist to the desire to include film-loving details throughout the Bride's adventures . Thus , the title of the second chapter is entitled if my memory serves me well : " the Bride wore blood " . It's of course a hint at François Truffaut's film , " la Mariée Etait en Noir " ( 1968 ) , a film on which Truffaut himself didn't have a warm spot . I have just mentioned the term chapter since the film and its companion are divided into chapters and Tarantino isn't afraid of subverting storytelling conventions by showcasing chapters in a chronological disorder like his previous efforts . The technical command of " Kill Bill : Vol 1 . " leaves speechless . First , I would like to congratulate Tarantino for the cinematography he tapped . It enhances bright colors , especially the red and one thing I noticed : in the first sequence of the film , Uma Thurman drives a vehicle with red seats . In Jean-Luc Godard's " Pierrot Le Fou " ( 1965 ) , the red is also a dominating color . In one scene , Jean Paul Belmondo and Anna Karina are in a car with red seats . If I don't understand at all the symbolical function of the red in Godard's highbrow work , in Tarantino's work , his symbolic is blatant according to the story and the Bride's motivations . Red is revenge , violence , death . This revenge story is filmed with virtuosity to its recesses where nothing is left to chance . It's tempting to deem the introduction of some characters as filler but it's necessary to reveal and consolidate their persona . And throughout these chapters , Tarantino taps all the cinematographic possibilities to bestow and embellish the form to the service of his intentions ( to pay homage to the samurai film among others ) and the contents . Thus , one of the moments of the film is showcased under the form of a Japanese cartoon film and for perhaps one of the most momentous moments ( the scene when the BRie kills some 80 masked enemies , Tarantino borrowed a device from Hitchcock he used in his mind-boggling " Psycho " ( 1960 ) : to shot an incredibly violent fight sequence in black and white not to show the red blood . Besides and while I'm on this sequence as well as the others that involve fights , they are so well choreographed and set with clockwork precision that they can emulate , even outclass the ones of " the Matrix " saga . And as many film buffs know it , one of Tarantino's recognizable signs is his pronounced taste for bloody violence . For " Kill Bill : Vol . 1 " , he didn't shelve it but this violence is virtually all blood and thunder and watching ripped or pierced body parts or whole bodies , slashed arms and legs becomes highly great fun . Thrill-seekers will be overjoyed and the height is reached when the Bride before facing Lucy Liu declares to them : " don't try to get back your missing parts ! " . Tarantino even grants some importance to some apparently trivial things like for instance the Japanese man who sells to the Bride a clean saber writes on the mist of a window , the one whom the Bride wants to get rid of at the end of her list ( you guessed who it is of course ) or when the Bride tries to move her big toe after her coma . It's exciting cinema as one could wish and for Tarantino whose target was partly to pay homage to the samurai movies with which he grew up , he delivered the goods : to spend a truly great cinema moment . The different cinematographic devices and tricks interlock with easiness and fluidity . What about my judgment of the volume 2 ? The answer in my review about it . NB : there's perhaps this unlikeliness in Tarantino's scenario . When the Bride gets out of the hospital and finds herself in the underground parking , thirteen hours pass by before she can feel her feet again . But during this time the staff at the hospital must have realized her departure . Why don't they find her again after such a long time ? It's a minor detail .
Unsurpassed Sorpasso	I've seen Dino Risi's road movie several time and with the same pleasure . The Gassman / Trintignant team superbly works : if they made a remake ( God preserve us ) it would be very difficult to find back the rapport they had . All along the road ( I say it again it's a road movie , and it is to be ranked among the best of the genre ) , the two characters change and we have the strange feeling that the more we see them the less we know them . Roberto is the educated boy but his naiveté and his ingenuousness are so beaming that he is totally kept down by Bruno . My favorite scenes take place where Roberto used to spend his holidays . He was so childish he did not realize that his aunt preferred the farmer and that the servant was gay ( Bruno's lines are much fun ! ) But things are not what they seem . We soon discover that Bruno is not the strong man he pretends he is . Non-intellectuals will appreciate the slap at the " serious " directors ( Antonioni ' s " l'eclisse " ) . As for the ending , it comes as a shock . Completely unexpected . What do you suppose that means ? Perhaps the end of Bruno's childhood , Roberto representing another himself , the one he wanted to be or the one he used to be .
Donny and the bunny man	Donnie Darko is a brainy but depressed teenager . Between a familial cocoon on the verge of splitting up and a conformist high school , he's suffocating . His only real friend is a giant rabbit named Frank . The latter orders him to commit acts of violence and predicts him the end of the world in 28 days , 06 hours , 42 minutes and 12 seconds . . . . . . And this is what grabbed my attention about the American independent movie made by a 26 year old young director , Richard Kelly . I was amazed at the general enthusiasm on this site around this flick while knowing it opened around the world with little hype ( in France , it had a very quiet opening ) . " Donnie Darko " could occupy a prominent place among the movies which were sleepers at the time of their release but which gained the status of cult-movie . I have heard about it thanks to one of my favorite bands : Echo and the Bunnymen . Their grand song " the Killing Moon " opens a movie which in its first quarter of an hour presents a series of sequences drastically different in the content and form ( from the moment when Donnie awakes in the country to the presentation of his high school to the first apparition of Frank , the rabbit ) . The first merit we can attribute to Kelly's flick is having gathered several cinema genres in a sole genuine story ( fantastic , comedy , drama , thriller , teenage movie ) . This variety is equaled by the liberty of tones that characterizes the movie . Going from fantasizing to realism , swinging from fantastic to comedy as if it followed naturally , Kelly also excels in imposing climates . The more the movies goes on , the more intensity it accumulates . An intensity that Kelly controls without extreme special effects and by little touches , notably with the apparitions of the evil rabbit which pepper the work . This creature is a kind of witness of Donnie's troubled mind . As a matter of fact , the movie wavers nearly all the time between 2 poles : the exterior world and Donnie's inner psycho . We penetrate in the tormented mind of a teenager who is prey to a profound discontentment and especially rebelled against the world that surrounds him . By committing odd and alarming acts suggested by Frank , he expresses his contempt and his hate for this shameful world . So , in a way Frank is the intermediary point between Donnie's mind and his exterior contact . But these acts are for Kelly an excellent means to break the deceitful appearances and to remove masks of hateful characters . To a second degree , " Donnie Darko " is adorned with a scathing social critic whose target is especially the education system . This one is ossified , remains paralyzed in its conformist educational methods . One of its goals is turning young female pupils in pompom girls ! And in one memorable sequence , the headmaster rejects Drew Barrymore's educational methods without explaining why ! The critic is still more acid when the teachers welcomes nearly with open arms a persuasive preacher ( an unexpected Patrick Swayze ) who claims knowing how to crush fear thanks to a total master of positive energy . Ultimately , it is total idolatry or credulity for shameless charlatanism that the movie also attacks and when we learn Swayze's hidden secret , the satire is extra intense . Furthermore , Kelly also skilfully incorporated elements of teenage movie in his rich work and these elements are generally the ones which are put aside in teenage movies . The most important one is the difficulties of communication between teenagers and their parents . Donnie suffers but his parents ( even his girlfriend or close relatives ) are incapable of understanding him , although they seem to agree their son on certain points like the education in his school . Even his analysis sessions are of little help for him . What can he do ? Perhaps contemplating the possibility of time travel . . . As for the cast , it alternates good and , let's say , less good surprises . The best : Jake Gyllenhaal is a real revelation , both frail and disturbing . The actress who acts his gym teacher also stands out even if she acts a grotesque character . But thanks to this , the movie is blessed with comic moments of a high quality . Then , I have always thought that Patrick Swayze had limited gifts as an actor but here , he is cast against type in a role for which he was the ideal man . However , the choice of Drew Barrymore for the young literature teacher is debatable . She's not bad at all but she was too young for the role ( this is my opinion ) . I don't want to reveal the end but with it we could write that we've come full circle . It ends a movie which opens prospects to any possible interpretations . Not meant pejoratively , the screenplay has a good packet of holes or ambiguous points . Moreover , the logic behind the whole story is hard to perceive . The truth finds itself neither in Donnie's mind , nor in the exterior world . Maybe in every viewer's opinion . I address to the people who haven't watched " Donnie Darko " : if you wish to watch it and at the end of the first projection you feel bemused , don't reject it like I did . Like " Jacob's Ladder " ( 1990 ) , like " the Sixth Sense " ( 1999 ) , it requires several viewings before the qualities of Kelly's work reveal themselves before our eyes . An undeniable tour-de-force in the teenage movie as well as a readable work on several levels , spanning fantastic movie , teenage movie and social satire , " Donnie Darko " should attract any movie-goer given it doesn't necessarily target a specific category of viewers .
Incredible indeed .	Along with " invasion of the body snatchers " ( 1956 ) " forbidden planet " ( 1956 ) and " the fly " ( 1958 ) , the best movie sci-fi offered in the fifties . Richard Matheson's remarkable novel was adapted by himself , thus the movie is an accurate rendition . Differences are kept to the minimum , and are probably due to censorship : one character , the pedophile , who wants to take the hero to his home has been removed and the relationship with Clarice remains platonic . Besides , Matheson focuses here on the second part of his novel , which takes place in the basement . The special effects are absolutely stunning for the time , but what's the most extraordinary is that they take a back seat to the hero's frames of mind : the voice-over is never redundant and Matheson's brilliant lines , a thousand miles above the B-movie level , perfectly convey his hero's plight . " Arachnophobia " ( 1990 ) , with a much more comfortable budget pales into insignificance when you've seen Grant Williams'fight with the spider . The doll house , the scenes with the midgets , the metaphysical final are as awesome today as they were half a century ago . Do not miss the cast and credits at the beginning either . During its second half , except for the voice-over , the movie is almost silent and Jack Arnold sustains the interest with only one character . With its inexorable progression - the hero slowly becoming on his own - , its first-class screenplay and a fine direction by Jack Arnold , who could ask for a remake ? This movie and the three I mention above are genuine classics , they have in common fears hidden in collective unconscious .
Full moon fever .	Among the three Wyler-Davis ' collaborations ( the others being " little foxes " and " Jezebel " ) " the letter " is their triumph . The repugnance that most of the French critics feel for the great Wyler is one of their major flaws ( coming from " les cahiers du cinema " and the stupidity of the nouvelle vague ravings ) . " The letter " is a splendor . A screenplay so simple and so effective it's a wonder it grabs us till the last pictures . A first sequence to rival the best of Hitchcock . A feverish sticky deadly atmosphere from the mysterious garden where a malefic full moon shines on Davis ' inscrutable face to the seedy place in the Chinese quarter where they smoke opium and where Gale Sondergaard spins a web : in this memorable scene when she forces Davis to kneel down , she almost surpasses the star , which will seem an impossible task to some , and yet . . Every time Sondergaard appears on the screen , she's absolutely terrifying . I was saying that the screenplay was simple , but that kind of simplicity takes genius and I wish today's stories had this implacable logic . As always in Wyler's works of that era , the ball sequence is a recurring theme ( see the admirable scenes of " Wuthering Heights " and " Jezebel " ) Thus , the finale scenes revolve around a ball , beginning with Davis's entrance and ending with a view of the dancers from the outside , à la " Wuthering Heights " . Excellent performances by the whole cast , fabulous directing , particularly in these last pictures , where Davis is walking through the garden , under a bad moon rising . . You must see " the letter " .
When the legend is more beautiful than History . . . .	. . . let's film the legend . That's the story of " Citizen Kane " ' Liberty Valance " and countless other heroes alive or half-dead , buried in the ground or imaginary . After all , Bonnie Parker and Clyde Barrow were two shabby seedy little gangsters , their photographs show that thy were not a beautiful couple , nothing to do with handsome Warren Beatty and gorgeous Faye Dunuway . Yes , Bonnie did write poems , that had some kind of tragic grandeur . And , however , Arthur Penn , the " miracle worker " succeeds ! Bonnieand Clyde become rebels against the establishment , they plunder the banks but they leave their money to the poor . They live dangerously , because they've gotta get out of their lousy place with no future . They know , to quote Hank Williams , that they'll never get out of this world alive ( ! ) , we feel it through Bonnie's poems and the character of her mother , an old lady full of dignity who plays the part of the Antique Chorus . THe members of the gang are very interesting : Moss is the caricature of Clyde , and Blanche that of Bonnie . There was another movie before which focused on Bonnie ( the Bonnie Parker story ) , but the forerunner of Penn's movie is arguably " Gun Crazy " .
Robert Enrico's second masterpiece .	. . . the first one being the unsurpassed " Au Coeur De La Vie " Released when the nouvelle vague was à la mode and when critics did not care for the others ( = who were not part of the Godard clique ) , " les adventurers " has stood the test of time remarkably well , so well that ( God preserve us ) some producers could think of a remake . Robert Enrico had already directed " les grandes gueules " ( 1963 ) which enhanced male friendships in a Vosges Mountains sawmill and is still watchable today thanks to its good cast ( Bourvil , Lino Ventura , Marie Dubois ) , and Enrico's efficient directing . But nothing could have predicted " les adventurers " , which seems today stronger than yesterday , when so many nouvelle vague " oeuvres " are reserved for highbrows and make too many people take to their heels when they hear about French cinema . " Les adventurers " was based on the first part of a Jose Giovanni novel ( who had written Becker's " le trou " ; Giovanni himself transferred the second part to the screen as " la loi du survivant " ) . When it was released , it was a huge popular success , but the critics were a bit condescending . The Delon / Ventura / Shimkus threesome shines . They are true raiders , in a way Indiana Jones is not : they have something to lose , and they are human beings of flesh and blood . Enrico used the film sets to stunning results . He makes the scrap heap where Leatitia looks for waste material as poetic as the fort surrounded by the sea where the tragedy is resolved . François de Roubaix's extraordinary score enhances the scenes as few musicians can do . The burial at sea is the most beautiful sequence of the sixties French cinema . I cannot think of a more haunting scene : anybody who has seen it never forgets it . Robert Enrico , who is not regarded as an " important " director in France has nothing to be jealous of his peers here . A work to rival the best of Huston .
another Ken Loach winner	Joe ( Peter Mullan ) is a guy who has seen it all before . A former alcoholic , he kicked his habit . Now he is unemployed but is paradoxically very active since he trains a little football team and interests himself in young Liam who has a brush with the local underground for a story of unpaid drugs with his young spouse Sabine . He falls in love with Sarah , a social worker who brings them help and support . The two people fall in love whereas to help Liam , Joe is ready to break the law and to do shady jobs for the mobsters . Will his relationship with Sarah be affected by this ? When he places his camera in the popular neighborhoods of a big city eaten away by unemployment , Ken Loach is the defender of the outcasts who are very strongly linked by friendship and mutual support , like Joe here with his tiny football team . Loach refuses to feel pity for them and shots the outset of his film with energy and generosity . Where he also grabs the audience and impresses her is his master at supple cinematographic writing . " My Name is Joe " starts up first time with a humorist perspective that the filmmaker will try to keep to the maximum . You have to see Joe and his sidekick who pretend to be professional house painters to Sarah's . Then , as Liam and Sabine's trouble grow and with Joe's decision to help them , the tone becomes darker , blacker and is here to remind us that we are in Loach's universe . His characters in spite of their big efforts are caught up in a sad fate . In the end , Loach runs the whole gamut of tones with ability in a quite gloomy plot . The arresting performance of Peter Mullan helps to make Loach's 1998 film more appealing and it's one to discover or rediscover .
The crowning of Wyler's career	In the sunny , too sunny country , very nasty things happen . A young man goes chasing butterflies which he kills and adds to his collection . But there's more . . . William Wyler , unfairly deemed " academic " , gave with " the collector " his most sustained piece of work in the sixties . With the impressive exception of " best years of our lives " ( 1945 ) , it might simply be his very best movie . He really took to new limits the psychological drama in huis clos he had already tackled in the past ( little foxes ( 1941 ) , the heiress ( 1949 ) , detective story ( 1951 ) ; desperate hours ( 1955 ) ) But none of these strong works equal " the collector " : they often verge on melodrama , convention and sentimentality . None of these setbacks show up in the 1965 work : it's definitely a modern one , ahead of its time , and of which any great director of the planet would be proud . Using only two characters - John Huston did it before in " heaven knows , Mr Allison " ( 1957 ) , but with less startling effects-Wyler sustains interest and suspense till the very end . And I would go as far as saying that the ending prolongates the suspense , because it's an incredible conclusion , thoroughly immoral ( I really wonder why the censorship did not ask Wyler to " sweeten " it ) Terence Stamp is the collector , and he's probably never been better than in this deadly story . Not only he predates Hannibal , copycats , bone collectors and co for three decades , but he runs the whole gamut of emotions : this character was unique for the time , with only Karl-Heinz Boehm's " peeping tom " character ( 1960 ) as a contender . He is a socially washout , an obscure clerk , his colleagues ' laughing stock , his only family is a ridiculous auntie , no future prospects , no love of his own , alife unfulfilled to a fault . To think that it takes the director a one - minute black and white flashback to let us know about his hero's background ! Matching him every step of the way is Samantha Eggar's sensational portrayal of Miranda , the young girl he kidnaps and holds in a cellar . She's his prisoner , but he's a prisoner too : of his phantasms , obsessions . The young man suffers in his flesh and his mind , in spite of his impassive face - Compare Wyler's work with Stamp here with that of Fellini in " spirit of the dead , part 3 " Tobby Dammit " : although Stamp is outstanding in the Italian's work too , he's much more convincing here because the " academic " Wyler remains in control of his actor . What Stamp cannot forgive Miranda , and the whole world outside it the normal , legal , licit , - the society approves of it - , side of her happiness , her " joie de vivre " ( check the first pictures of her ) . Maybe her parents are not that much rich , but her father is a doctor and thanks to him , she's an art student , she's access to culture and to the in crowd , whereas he will always remain a misfit and a dunce . THe " catcher in the rye " sequence reveals the gap between them . The amour fou which Stamp feels for Eggar will remain platonic because he respects her too much - " respects " is the keyword , it comes at every dialogue . But maybe it's because Miranda ' culture puts her on a throne , an inaccessible icon , which makes the epilogue one of the most terrifying ever filmed . The cinematography and Maurice Jarre's music are also brilliant assets for a movie that should be missed on no account . This was to be Wyler's swansong : his last three movies are disappointing : " how to steal a million dollars " is another comedy , " funny girl " a vehicle for B . S . and " the liberation of L . B . Jones " , just exploited the success of " in the heat of the night " " The collector " must be regarded as his artistic testament .
energetic youth	Basically , Cédric Klapisch's second long feature movie had known a genesis like " Duel " ( 1971 ) by Steven Spielberg . It was to be shot for the television and broadcast on the Franco-German channel : Arte . But it was eventually exploited in the French theaters . This film , partly autobiographic brings out a deep nostalgia through the realist vision on which it focuses . It's the story of a bunch of friends who are gathered for the waiting of Sophie's childbirth and they especially remember their memories when they were in high school : teachers , girls , drugs , demonstrations etc . . . They were inseparable and motivated by a strong thirst for living . The movie is constructed like a long and vibrant flash-back , momentarily interrupted by sequences of the present moment . To understand the whole movie , let's quote the director's opinion about his work : " the action takes place in 1975 , a year of transition between the seventies and the eighties , between a collectivist and individualistic time " . If we don't really feel the individualist side , on another hand , the collectivist feeling is very evident . In 1975 , society is divided in several faces including 2 significant ones . There are the ones who try to conserve a hippy attitude and the others , aware of the economic problems of their time and decided to fight them , notably through demonstrations where solidarity was a strong asset ( rise of unemployment ) . It is precisely these economic difficulties , at the time considered as not important but which later in the eighties were to rise sharply , making the society enter an individualistic sphere with the evaporation of solidarity . Gérard Jugnot will clearly show it in his film " une époque formidable " ( 1991 ) . But this transition is also made at the level of the main characters ' mentality . They are presented as carefree and rowdy teenagers who will become conscientious grown-ups , the baccalauréat is a sort of frontier between these two worlds . What makes " le péril jeune " so enthralling is that it is mostly filled with dialogs as straight as a die which often cleave through the air revealing Klapisch's great ease with his topic . Sketching his characters with a touch of irony and tenderness , he is supported by a group of young actors all remarkable and we are really under the impression that they fully blossom in their respective roles . I watched a documentary about the film in which the actors have excellent memories about the shooting . Besides , thanks to " le péril jeune " , Klapisch made a name for Romain Duris ( who was to become Klapisch's favorite actors ) , Vincent Elbaz and Elodie Bouchez and he contributed in launching their careers in French cinema . In another extent , it would be unfair to neglect the rest of the cast , just outstanding because most of the secondary characters escape from a tempting caricature ( the headmaster , the teachers ) . It is also useful to add that Klpaisch brilliantly uses his camera : to shot sequences of the present moment when the friends are in the hospital , he sticks it in front of them and nearly doesn't move it . Whereas in the long flash-back , his camera is constantly moving . Then , humor is well present throughout the movie but it doesn't stop it from ending on a dramatic note since we learn Tomasi's death due to the drug . Moreover , we leave the projection with a little of melancholy as if disillusions had eventually prevailed over hopes even if the very last shot shows us the four friends running with frenzy in the street . Klapisch moves up a rung in comparison with his previous movie " riens du tout " ( 1992 ) and signs here , a movie that enchants us . This joy which treats the eyes is all the more intense as the director's forthcoming movies , " un air de famille " ( 1996 ) , " l'auberge espagnole " ( 2002 ) will be equal to the hopes . At last , " le péril jeune " should revive good old youth memories to the ones who were students in the seventies .
A second look at " la rupture " .	" La rupture " might be the best Chabrol . I've recently seen it and I think it has improved a lot with time , more than any other movie of the Chabrol 1967-1973 heyday , even more , in several respects , than " le boucher " or " que la bête meure " . Completely overlooked , there is a lot of Chabrol fans that don't even know the existence of " la rupture " , and the critic-when they know it - has always been condescending . Why is it the best Chabrol ? Because it has almost everything that we find in the director's other works : love , suspense , bourgeoisie contempt , mystery , humor-mostly black - , and even surrealism . Two influences are glaring as far as " la rupture " is concerned : Alfred Hitchcock ' s ( the actor , telling the heroine that the world is a dirty place recalls Uncle Charlie in " shadow of a doubt " ) and Henri-George Clouzot's ( the boarding house recalls " l'assassin habite au 21 " ) The main topic is the power of money ; never Chabrol has been as convincing as here . Michel Bouquet , the accurate prototype of a French bourgeois circa 1970 is terrifying . He's got a wallet by way of heart and he stalks his daughter-in-law as a spider on its web , to get the custody of his grandson . When Audran , desperate , comes back from the airport , two scenes pack a real wallop : the first one shows the reunited couple , desperately trying to pick up the pieces , whereas they know they are bound to fail . Audran and Drouot are harrowing and the spectator wish they could get out of this money pigpen . A second scene , just following this one , shows Audran telling her contempt to the discreet charm of the bourgeoisie . Chabrol is actually speaking out here , and his voice has never been so devastating . There ' s a lot of subplots and never a Chabrol supporting cast has been so important . He achieves a real tour de force : every character is interesting , be it the owner of the boarding-house , her alcoholic husband , her retarded daughter , the three old ladies , the villain ( Machiavellian Jean Pierre Cassel ) , his nymphomaniac accomplice , the good doctor . . . . Money allows very bad things , the right to pervert an innocent child is not the least . The scenes between the villains and Elise , the poor idiot have a contemporary feel . Money allows the over-possessive mother ( an Hitchcockian influence again ) to pick up her beloved child ( in his thirties ! ) , to read him " the knights of the round table " , and to poison him with protection . Money allows to tarnish a brave mother's reputation when she makes her best to cope with her plight . The movie eventually drags down the whole cast for an astounding finale , complete with drugs , deaths , hallucinations ( a bit dated , admittedly ) and the balloon release comes as a relief . Stephane Audran , more than 15 years before " babette's feast " is wonderfully cast as a mother who ' s got to fight for her child and her honor . Her beauty radiates in this filthy world . Once again , " la rupture " contains whole everything that Chabrol had done before and heralds the best that he has done since . It deserves to be restored to favor . NB : It's superior to Charlotte Armstrong's " balloon man " which provided the story . All the names but one ( Sonia ) were Frenchified , Sherry becoming Helene .
Hymns to the silence	It's considered polite to write that the silent era was Gance's time and that his talkies are mediocre stuff . Do you need FF Coppola to give them a chance ? Do you ? Gance was a pioneer even when he made talkies . Actually his post-silent career was a constant drift back and forth between adventure ( " La Fin du Monde " " J'accuse " ( 2nd version ) , " La Venus Aveugle " " Le Capitaine Fracasse " " Cyrano et D'Artagnan " ) and retreat ( " le Roman d'un Jeune Homme Pauvre " " Le Maitre de Forges " - actually mostly directed by Fernand Rivers - " Austerlitz " ) . " Un Grand Amour de Beethoven " is the follow-up to another historical biopic ( " Lucrece Borgia " ) which exposed the worst of the man's weaknesses - or is it because of a bad editing where scenes were lost or deleted ? - Gance did not repeat the same mistake : I'm not a specialist , so I will not argue over historical accuracy . " Un Grand Amour de Beethoven " is not a biopic , it's an experimental movie , which predates another one , Forman's " Amadeus " . Gance's film is a musical poem , where he tries to enhance the music with his pictures ( and not the other way about ) . Most of the time , he brilliantly succeeds : he virtually invented the " subjective " soundtrack . These scenes when the musician feels the first effects of the illness are among the very best in the French cinema of the thirties , and as the thirties French cinema was the best French cinema ever , it speaks volumes about them . Gance simply cuts loose all the visual effects ( mill , nature , thunder ) at his command and lets the music surge and flow and ooze around his audience . This is shockingly transcendent stuff , absolutely intoxicating in its use of dynamics - perhaps inspired by his previous experiments in " La Roue " - from silence to thunder . Gance also finds marvelous scenes to let us hear " moonlight sonata " . Harry Baur gives another sublime performance ; the very long scene depicting the death of the artist has the strength of a dirge : while a " Miserere " is heard , the face very slowly turns into a death mask .
between heaven and hell	I haven't watched the first version supposedly mixed of " Charlie and the Chocolate Factory " ( 1971 ) dismissed by Roald Dahl and so I will eschew any comparison with this long-anticipated cover directed by Tim Burton . I watched it a few days ago and the first thing that comes to mind about it is that Tim Burton's version is a wonderful example of how the adaptation of a book for children for the silver screen can be transcended into a stylish , prime rendering . Anyway , when I heard that the filmmaker of gems like " Edward Scissorhands " ( 1990 ) , " Ed Wood " ( 1994 ) or " Sleepy Hollow " ( 1999 ) planned to give a fresh cinematic rendering of Roald Dahl's work , I thought it was highly likely to be a triumph by any standards . The novel alchemy of these two authors worked wonders to deliver a " Burtonian " film to the core . From film to film , the filmmaker pursues his exploration of the strange with these offbeat characters who are generally outcast and the inclusion of the whimsical in the everyday life . To make the 5 little lucky children visit the coveted dream factory , Tim Burton's imagination is in full swing . It's visually a feast for the eyes with a succession of quirky , fanciful moments fraught with oddball ideas and bathing in an ocean of colors . It is pure rapture that is prevailing in the viewer's mind who is sliding in pure wonder before so many used visual , thoughtful effects and devices to deliver a solid portion of dream and escape . " Charlie and the Chocolate Factory " also ensures continuity with Tim Burton's precedent works because analogies can be found with several of his previous films . A town with many houses and shops gathered and at the edge of the city , a somewhat isolated , mysterious place where lives a bizarre outcast who generates fascination among the inhabitants . Doesn't it remind you of " Edward Scissorhands " ? Moreover , the machinery system could be an echo of Edward's inventor's . Then , if the town has realist British accents in its architecture , Charlie's house seems to be built in a Gothic one and Tim Burton's taste for Gothic trend stands out once again after having come to the forefront in " Batman " ( 1989 ) or " Sleepy Hollow " . The interior of the house includes amusing details : Charlie's grandparents spend most of their days in a big bed . At last , the end of the film is similar to " Big Fish " ( 2003 ) insofar as it showcases the lack of communication between Wille Wonka and his father and their reconciliation . To come back to the story , the audience is caught in a jaunty walk behind the walls of the chocolate factory just like the visitors and however , this state of bliss seems to be short-lived . This place has something ominous like a big haunted house from which one couldn't escape with its long corridors and spacious rooms . Something the viewer feels when the visitors are at the threshold of the firm with the mechanical dolls singing and dancing before finally being burnt . This fanciful , almost fictional world conceal doubtful , unnerving parts , beginning with Willy Wonka himself . Under his wry , laid-back appearance , this character has an eerie part of ambiguity . He is cut off from the exterior world and barely worries about the unfortunate fate of the 4 smug young imps and one can fuel doubts about their mishaps : were they premeditated ? Finally , Willy Wonka has to come to terms with the demons of his past to be in peace with himself and to be a human being . Of course , as a whole , one could object that the form tends to be favored over the contents with a rather linear master plan especially with the installments concerning the four pretentious brats who are punished of their own sins but Tim Burton keeps his distance from the moralizing , stereotyped aspects of the storytelling . " Charlie and the Chocolate Factory " is also a tale that shelters emotion and tenderness mainly brought on by Charlie's grandfather . The cast is equal to the sum of the story and its treatment . Johnny Depp who had already acted in a so-so movie dealing with chocolate , " Chocolat " ( 2000 ) by Lasse Hallstrom can be once again grateful to Tim Burton to have conceived him a tailor-made role for him in which he's constantly fit in . All you have to do is to sit down and savor a well-rounded delicacy from a connoisseur in storytelling who added one more canonical contribution to a monument ( a figurative sense for his filmography ) that cuts a fine figure . Go on like that Mr . Burton ! Would Roald Dahl have appreciated this bracing result ?
An all-time sci-fi classic .	Taking some liberties with Pierre Boulle's book , the movie remains faithful to its spirit , to its Voltaire-like irony . It's interesting if you saw the movie to read the book and compare the two endings : desperate at the end of the movie , it's actually tinged with humor in Boulle's words ( Men inspired by wisdom ? Quite impossible ! the astronaut says before we realize it's a monkey ) On the other hand , the fact that , unlike in the book , the apes do not enjoy a modern life with cars is not a problem . I would go as far as saying that it's better that way . Considering the conclusion , the shattering final clue , desolate landscapes and primitive technology are logical , de rigueur . In French junior high schools , pupils frequently study this book and now , thanks to the video , they study the movie in parallel . I saw the movie when it was released and I knew from the start it would become a classic . The final scene , one of the strongest of all sci-fi movies , filmed with an impeccable science of the picture using high and low angle shots , is mind-boggling . It's a movie that cried to be left alone , I'm not sure that Tim Burton ( whom I admire though ) was right to redo .
Ah Le Petit Vin Blanc !	Seven years before his first feature-length film " Jenny " , Carné already displayed the populisme , the command of the picture and the brilliance which would mark his golden era ( 1936-1946 ) . With hindsight , it is pity that , for lack of money , he could not make his final film , " Mouche " from Guy de Maupassant , which would have taken place down by the Marne , and which might perhaps have returned him to former glories . Nogent has remained famous in France thanks to a very popular song about " the little white whine you drink under the bowers that way of Nogent " . Carné's short is so dense it's a wonder he could put so many things in it . The trains heading for the El Dorado , leaving the offices and its typewriters ; then the place with the swarming crowds : some are swimming , some are fishing , some are rowing . All is masterfully filmed , with an incredible sense of rhythm perhaps inspired by previous experiments by Abel Gance ( " La Roue " ) . But what Carné likes best , it's the Guinguettes where people dance to the tune of an accordion and drink le Petit Vin Blanc . In his last appearance for the cinema , " Carné L'Homme à la Camera " ( 1985 ) a documentary by his peer Christian-Jaque , you can see Carné watch young people dance : he was probably thinking of those magic places " les Guinguettes " which had become a thing of the past . " Nogent " is like a symphony : its ending is a return to peace and quietness . The last Parisians are leaving , and as the night is falling , the Marne river keeps on flowing , waiting for the next Sunday .
Nothing's OK ! Never was , never will !	One of the best prison movies ever made . Jules Dassin's direction is so strong , so precise , so mind-boggling it packs a real wallop . Hume Cronyn gives a subdued but extremely scary portrayal of a sadistic brute . Always in a suave voice , always saying " I want to help you " , there's only one way for him : the hard one . Burt Lancaster is equally effective as a tough inmate . But the whole cast cannot be too highly praised . The cast and credits read : " the women from outside " . There are four flashbacks which really fit into the movie . All of them last barely two or three minutes but they could provide material for four other movies . The first one ( Flossie's ) verges on farce , it is the comic relief of a desperate movie and we need it ! Then the " fur coat " segment which is some kind of Cinderella turned film noir . The third one , perhaps the less interesting ( everything is relative ! ) , features Yvonne De Carlo as an Italian girl during the war the former soldier was in love with . And finally Burt Lancaster's story , he tries to find money to pay his girlfriend's operation . These flashbacks are not gratuitous : all that is left to those men is memories . Besides , the last line tells us something like that : " nobody will escape ! nobody ! " More than ten years before , Dassin had shown what French director Jacques Becker would do in his famous prison movie " le trou " ( 1960 ) : the prison as a metaphor of the human condition . There are a lot of scenes which will leave you on the edge of your seat . My favorite scene : the informer's death while Lancaster is securing his alibi with the doc . But the final is awesome too , something apocalyptic .
Nuns story .	As time goes by , Powell and Pressburger's movies become more and more important and crucial in the evolution of the seventh art . The first time I ' d seen " black narcissus " I had missed the whole point : this is the kind of film you've got to see several times . Five nuns are leaving their Calcutta convent for a mission in the Himalaya mountains . In this place , where the wind never stops blowing , they will settle in an old " palace " . These nuns have faith , they believe in what they are doing , be it teaching , nursing , educating , or carrying the word of God . But their faith will clash with a thousand - tear-old wisdom ( the Holy Man ) , a population who mixes up religion with magic , and Mister Dean , a Bunuelesque pragmatic man . The natives will not change , but the nuns will . Their faith gets still tangled in prejudices ; two examples : - A young noble man wants to study in the mission . When sister Clodagh ( Kerr ) refuses , he points his finger at the crucifix and says " Wasn't HE a man ? " " He took the shape of a man " the baffled nun answers . - Sister Clodagh wants to get rid of the Holy Man , who spends his time gazing upon the world around him . " What would Jesus Christ have done ? " Dean ironically asks her . After hearing sister Philippa's ( Flora Robson ) worried confidences , sister Clodagh feels that her past is coming back to haunt her . The flashbacks are extraordinary , dreamlike and a bit eerie . Clodagh comes to the door to meet her fiancé , there's only darkness . The past and the present are worlds apart , in time and in space and seem to be two unconnected ones . It recalls the real world and the beyond in " a matter of life and death " ( 1946 ) . And the infinite space of the 1946 work is here the highest mountains in the world . By the same token , the hunting with hounds flashback forecasts " gone to earth " ( 1949 ) . Powell and Pressburger are real auteurs who build a coherent work . The nuns actually discover that they are women made of flesh and blood . One of them , sister Ruth goes as far as falling in love with Dean and relinquishes religion . The night scene during which she paints her lips against a hellish backdrop in front of a terrified sister Clodagh is a riveting tour de force that even Luis Bunuel did not equal . The fighting around the ( hell ) bell between a white Clodagh and an all dressed in black Ruth will leave you on the edge of your seat . There are so many things to say about " black narcissus " : Jean Simmons appears in a silent , but vicious part . This is probably Deborah Kerr's towering performance , and she's only on the threshold of a brilliant career - she will play a nun once more in John Huston's " heaven knows mister Allison " , but although I do love that director , her part here is far superior - . Jack Cardiff's award-winning color cinematography was years ahead of its time . It works wonders in the sensual scenes but the most beautiful picture remains for me the last one when the rain begins to fall on green leaves . A sparkling black diamond .
guten Tag Meisterwerk !	With " Goodbye Lenin ! " ( 2003 ) , German cinema is very well and by showing that it can deliver a true gem from time to time , it still reserves us good surprises . Besides , the commercial triumph of the film abroad was precisely a surprise . True , it filled with enthusiasm about 6 million of German spectators which is nearly normal since the action unfolds during a key-date of their history : 1990 but one didn't expect that the movie would ride high in the box-offices of numerous countries in the world . I think this success is witness of a comforting thing : there are still many people in the world with a taste for a cinema of quality . I noticed that for a while , German cinema has the gift to reject hackneyed topics or to renew them through an unexpected treatment as the frenzied " Lola Rennt " ( 1998 ) showed . Or otherwise , it can favor new ideas . " Goodbye Lenin ! " definitely ranks in the second category . Basically , there's an original idea that we have never seen treated on the screen : to tell on a comic mode the reunification of Germany and Berlin in 1990 . This idea is very well exploited and gives a watertight screenplay which constitutes the main strength of the film . The heart of the movie begins in October 1989 . Because she saw her son beaten as he was demonstrating in the street to demand more liberties , Christiane Kerner had a coronary and went into a deep coma for several months . In the meantime , wall of Berlin fell down . When she awoke , communist system has disappeared and left place for a gigantic capitalist economy with , among others Coca-Cola and Burger King as its symbols . Eager not to cause her a second coronary that could kill her , her son Alex , with the help of his friends and close relatives decides to reconstitute in her mother's bedroom , life as it was during the communist system . On the paper , " Goodbye Lenin ! " is , first , to be taken as an inventive situation comedy which from a fragile topic unlikely to hold well water , increases the sudden new developments and continually revives the spectator's attention . It is sufficient to read the end of the previous paragraph to have an overall idea of the situation and to begin to smile . Just try to imagine this : a bedroom decorated and furnished like during the communist time in the middle of Berlin that is converted to the capitalist rules with in the background significant events which happen to Germany in 1990 like its victory at the World Cup or the day it celebrated its reunification on 03 October 1990 . So , this bedroom was conceived by Alex and unlike his friends and close relatives who try to " rock ( in their own way ) in the newly free world " , he isn't really touched by the wonders but also the excess of the capitalist world . Her mother's frail health is much more on his mind and he fully devotes himself to take care of her and not to reveal her the truth about Berlin since the 09 November 1989 . One must recognize that the process ( hare-brained if they are ) designed to avoid a deadly shock to her mother are of an impressive ingenuity like the false television news and it works for Christiane can't see anything . Although " Goodbye Lenin ! " belongs to the register of the comedy , the director Wofgang Becker is a real master of the suspense and brilliantly handles the delaying effect . Indeed : to which extent , Alex can invent or find tricks likely not to shock her mother ? And to which extent can the latter accept to be well treated until she gets tired of comforting but boring words like " You can't go out Mum . You've got to rest " ? If she fully recovers , will Alex have to tell her that Berlin is under the capitalist influence ? I don't want to reveal much of the film but go and see for yourself . On a second degree , " Goodbye Lenin ! " can also be read as a satire of the former communist system . The bedroom can be considered as a metonymy of East Berlin , even of the whole communist world . Beside this satire , Wolfgang Becker describes with a touch of irony , wonders but also exaggerations of the capitalist universe and reactions of the former inhabitants of East Berlin are always pertinent , either it is wonder ( customers in a video shop hypnotized by a porn movie ) or nostalgia ( Alex's old neighbor who regrets the former communist system ) . Overrall , " Goodbye Lenin ! " is a refreshing and witty work from start to finish that cleverly and skilfully exploits an original idea . Tinged with a huge tenderness for its characters , especially Christiane , it contains sequences which would deserve to go down in the history of cinema because they are true anthology moments . Those who have seen the movie may know which sequences I am thinking of . A movie which strikes right at the heart just like Yann Tiersen's simple but efficient original soundtrack which should delight numerous piano players .
Absolute film noir .	The substantive " Manèges " in French has three meanings : a merry-go-round , a ring ( where you practice horse-riding ) , and ploys . The last two meanings can be applied to Allégret's movie . It does take place in a ring and hateful people are making ploys . Bernard Blier owns the ring , he's a naïve meek man , not the handsome guy women can dream of . Enter Simone Signoret - in one of her most satanic parts - : abetted by a mother ( played by a remarkable Jeanne Marken ) she marries the poor lad , who believes she loves him , and then the plot will become as ruthless as it can be . Signoret's portrayal is extraordinary , and easily matches her sensational roles in " les diaboliques " or " Room at the top " : emptying her hubby's pockets , lying lazily on her bed , horse-riding in the woods , stalking rich preys among chic clients of the " manège " ( because Blier is only a stage on her way to social elevation ) , or laughing at Blier behind his back , with her mother's strident chuckles which come back as a sinister leitmotiv . She does not realize she remains a rather vulgar woman , and the posh people she sees in her husband's ring cannot be fooled . " Your perfume will always be horse-manure ! " , the stable - lad , her lover , tells her . Signoret's mother ( Marken ) is an evildoer to a fault : she acts with her daughter as a madam . Her charms must provide her with money and respectability . The movie is masterfully constructed , using flashbacks , now Blier's memories , now Marken's ones . The ending is so black that the viewer , after this " horse-manure " atmosphere , needs a breath of fresh air . Film noir buffs , do not miss this gem !
fools in the snow	When it was released in 1996 , " Fargo " met public and especially critical acclaim and collected several rewards . But I think that if the Prize for the Best Directing at the Cannes festival was absolutely justified , on the other hand , Frances McDormand didn't deserve her Oscar in 1997 . William H . Macy should have won it . His performance as an hypocritical and dishonest car seller is powerful and unforgettable . What is amazing in " Fargo " are the landscapes , the sceneries and above all the characters . The Coen brothers said about the movie : " the landscapes , the sceneries are an integral part of the movie . They are typical of the Midwest as well as the characters with their sensitivity and their mentality " . They know what they are talking about since they come from the Midwest , more precisely from the Minnesota . As a consequence , they must have been at ease by making this thrilling movie . Concerning the characters , they are the subject of a realistic and down-to-earth description . Each of them has a different but not very status-enhancing characteristic : William H . Macy's cues are almost always hesitating , unfinished or unsure , the two gangsters are just silly guys ( one of them nearly never talks ) and most of the inhabitants including Frances McDormand are narrow-minded . By this way , the Coen brothers wanted to underline their meanness of mind and the fact that they are firmly rooted in their land of the Minnesota . Apart from the characters and although the movie is based on a true story , I am obliged to recognize that the script and the way the movie is designed have nothing new . But nonetheless , the tone is daring , there's black humor cleverly used ( notably in bloody moments ) that contrasts with a quiet even neutral directing . As for the snowy landscapes , they will later inspire Sam Raimi for " a simple plan " ( 1998 ) , a movie as successful as " Fargo " . " Fargo " is eventually the finest movie made by the Coen brothers and its place in the top 250 is thoroughly justified .
Alan J . Pakula's peak	Along with " Klute " ( 1971 ) and " the Parallax View " ( 1974 ) , " All the President's Men " represents the pinnacle of Alan J . Pakula's career in the seventies . The definitive proof that not only was political film his forte in the seventies but also that this decade was his heyday . Then the slump began in the eighties during which he had a stab at other kind of cinematographic genres and reached the bottom in the nineties with fiascoes such as " the Pelican Brief " ( 1993 ) , an unconvincing attempt to find the spirit of the conspiracy movie again or " the Devil's Own " ( 1997 ) , created in chaos . But back in 1976 , he shone with this political thriller which related the scandalous Watergate affair from the relentless investigation two journalists Woodward ( Robert Redford ) and Bernstein ( Dustin Hoffman ) undertook . They had flair , used their reasoning and deduction faculties in a stalwart way without giving in too much to discouragement to reconstitute with tenacity and accuracy this scandal which will lead to the resignation of Nixon . All this throughout countless phone calls , conversations with witnesses who were however often reluctant to talk , intensive researches . More than half of the movie occurs in the editorial office and not only has Pakula a sense of space to make this place bright but also to captivate the viewer's attention while the two journalists pore over their research and discoveries . Technically speaking , his film commands admiration and respect : helped by the topnotch work of his photograph Gordon Willis , his camera work shines throughout the work which is also scattered by first-class sequences . The very last one of course and one of my favorites is the following one : when Hoffman goes to Redford's apartment to inform him of his new discoveries , the latter turns up the music very loud , then he begins to type on the typewriter and incites his companion to communicate through this scheme because there are mikes in the room . An ingenious way to eschew one trap their enemies set . Because all the ones who were involved in this affair try to hush it up . An affair painstakingly reconstituted as well as a documentary about the American press's work methods , a faultless directing , a visual , technical splendor and a topflight performance , what more could you ask for from a cracker that can stand ( or rather ) encourages multiple viewings ?
Do not miss Bunny Lake !	Simply , " Bunny Lake " does more for me than such gems as Preminger's " Laura " " Where the sidewalk ends " or " Angel Face " . First the cast and credits : another Saul Bass's tour de force . A hand which is tearing pages out of . . . what ? It seems to indicate that the most important things happened before the film began . . . or that someone does not want us to know something . . . which makes sense , considering the plot . SPOILERS SPOILERS SPOILERSA little girl is missing . Her mother is desperate . But does this child really exist ? Wasn't she mentally ill ? Helped by her brother and a police who are more and more skeptical , she begins to search . The old schoolteacher is very clear-sighted when she says " This boy does not care for his niece but he does care for his sister " . Laurence Olivier was praised for his part ( the actor said that he was not interested in it ) but actually the movie begins to Keir Dullea . He appears as a well - respected good - looking polite young man , with future prospects , in his grey flannel suit . His relationship with his sister ( Carol Lynley ) is mysterious . They shared lots of things during their childhood . He insists she had an imaginary companion they killed and buried ( first step ) . Then she got pregnant by one of her high school ' s boyfriend and he wanted her to have an abortion ( second step ) . The two final steps are in the movie : in front of the doll-maker's shop , he tramples on the toy which cries " mummy " ; then he digs a hole in the garden . . . gradually we feel that that man is irrational . The atmosphere Preminger builds is astonishing . Most of the places recall childhood because Stephen ( and probably Ann too ) are still big children . When Stephen looks for Bunny in the school , he seems to play hide-and-seek , which predates the extraordinary finale when everything becomes a game . The story itself is a giant hide-and - seek in London . The only flaw of this absorbing psychological thriller is the wrong tracks the writers felt compelled to disseminate all along the film : the landlord , with his whip which may or may not have belonged to Sade ( a character Keir Dullea would portray later in his career ) , provides the low point of the work . This is minor quibble : " Bunny Lake is missing " masterfully renewed the Freudian movies of the forties ( " Cat People " " Secret Beyond the Door " " Spellbound " " Dark mirror " etc ) and should not be missed . Like this ? try this . . . . " The forgotten " Joseph Ruben 2004
49th parallel	It would be absurd to dismiss " forty-ninth parallel " as a propaganda movie . At the time a whole lot of movies were like that . Names ? William Wyler's " Mrs Minniver " ( 1942 ) , Fritz Lang's " man hunt " ( 1941 ) and " hangmen also die " ( 1943 ) , Alfred Hitchcock's " foreign correspondent " ( 1940 ) and " lifeboat " ( 1943 ) , Frank Borzague's " mortal storm " ( 1940 ) , Howard Hawks's " sergeant York " ( 1941 ) in America , Michael Powell , but also Alexander Korda ( " that lady Hamilton " ( 1941 ) ) in England , no to mention Russia ( SM Eisenstein ) or France ( Marcel Lherbier's " entente cordiale " ( 1939 ) ) . To be precise , one should add that Powell's masterpiece " a matter of life and death " ( 1946 ) ( stairway to heaven ) was also a commissioned work " to sweeten the US / England relationship " . When a movie brings something to heart and mind , it transcends propaganda and can become a work of art . Leave the term to Leni Von Riefenstahl's " Triumph des Willens " . Powell's movie is absorbing , it literally grows on you : during the first fifteen minutes you say to yourself : " another war movie " but further acquaintance shows this : Michael Powell is an auteur , a pacifist , and he knows cinema can be a powerful tool because of its popularity . Barely realist , it sometimes becomes some kind of fable road movie . Violence is thoroughly absent except for the beginning and the execution . The movie is full of extraordinary scenes : Sir Laurence Olivier dying , clutching his rosary ; the German Christian community - influenced by Frank Capra's " lost horizon " ( 1937 ) but the atmosphere of which predates Peter Weir's " witness " by forty years-the long dialogue about democracy : here , Powell puts a question over the notion of " native country " no less ; this recurrent picture of kneading trough which epitomizes not only the daily bread but also the new values the children who escaped from crumbling Europe can share ; the gigantic gathering of white and red men where a mounties man asks everybody to scrutinize his neighbor's face , in order to find the enemies , a sequence to rival the best of Hitchcock ; Leslie Howard , the educated man , who loves Matisse , Picasso and Thomas Mann , whose works he proudly keeps under his teepee ; the finale at Niagara falls on the trainor how to find a pacifist solution . Besides , the movie completely avoids pathos and grandiloquence by a very mundane last line which Billy Wilder would not disown . A movie where the stars do the supporting cast job : Sir Laurence Olivier only appears a dozen of minutes ( love his " alouette , gentille alouette " tune ) ; anyway , before he shaves , you hardly know him ; and ditto Leslie Howard , but his character is so endearing you'll remember him even if it's a ten - minute part . One ceaselessly rediscovers Powell ( not forgetting his first-class scenarist Pressburger ) and it's only the beginning . Most of his works are crying to be seen . If propaganda means conveying a message of love , peace and understanding , you can call most of his movies so .
A short story turned into a two-hour movie .	Daphné Du Maurier's work is a short story , which characters are not those depicted in the movie . But Hitchcock did not betray the writer . His ending is as open as that of Du Maurier . It's one of the very rare Hitch movie that does not feature the de rigueur happy end , although some other finals are dark ( see " shadow of a doubt " , " psycho " , " the rope " ) Only the material for a short , hence the necessity to develop the plot , to replace the initial family of farmers , complete with children , by thoroughly new characters : this is the main flaw of this movie : Annie ( Pleshette ) seems reduced to a walk-on : it seems that her relations with Mitch's mother are the cause for their breaking off . The mother has almost always been part of the Hitchcock ' s universe ( check " psycho " , " strangers on a train " " Marnie " - on a tragic mode - , and " north by norwest " , " to catch a thief " - on a comic one - ) Jessica Tandy is a remote mother , but overpossessive . Tippi Hedren's character is a banal one : a spoiled rich kid , who encounters another stereotype : the strong and surlybig-hearted he-man ( Rod Taylor ) . Hitchcock's genius shines in his direction : the scene that shows Hedren sitting on a bench near the school , while one by one the birds are arriving is an absolute classic , plundered by too many directors . In the indispensable Truffaut book , we discover that the master used to draw his scenes before filming them ; the drawings from the scene I talk about above are downright fascinating . All the scenes which feature the birds are extraordinary and a lot of disaster films with bigger budgets cannot hold a candle to them . And did you notice that in Perkins's office ( " Psycho " , the precedent movie ) , stuffed birds were waiting ? ? ? . .
We all stand together	" Our daily bread " is some kind of follow-up to " The Crowd " ( 1928 ) . Not only there is not work in the city anymore on account of the economy , but city is evil , as temptress Sally shows . I love the way King Vidor tackled the subject : the society's rejects's plight after the Depression . He never loses his sense of humour , even in the most dramatic scenes : John Sims trades his small guitar for a scrawny chicken , the farm is sold for 1 . 85 dollars , etc " Our daily bread " is the new society in miniature Jim built with a little help from his pals . Every human being counts , a violin player is as useful as a carpenter . Politic is not much talked about ; the word " socialism " is uttered once or twice , but the keyword is " cooperative " . " Let's stand together " is their motto . It culminates in the last sequence , one of the strongest of all time ! Songs , prayers , a bit of utopia but a lot of human warmth and love ! Like this ? Try these . . . " le Belle Equipe " Julien Duvivier 1936 " Grapes of Wrath " John Ford 1940
You're your own worst enemy . . . .	" Even if you're your own worst enemySick of yourselfSick of your everyday lotYou cannot spend your whole lifeThrowing yourself into the water . " That's the song Mouloudji sings in the film , and it comes back as a sinister leitmotiv of a bleak distraught work , one of Sacha Guitry's best , perhaps his best , period . The screenplay is so brilliant you will have to search your memory to find such a subtle inventive story . Guitry lets his inspiration flow , delivers some of the finest lines of his career and makes a masterpiece . Albert Ménard-Lacoste is a despicable mean tight-fisted bourgeois who lives with his missus and his offspring . In his mind , he is an honest man ( check the title ) . Enter his twin , Alain , who is the opposite of his brother : he's been away for a long time , he's a semi-hobo , he has travelled around the world . Albert was so ashamed of his sibling he told his wife he was dead . " How old was I , when you buried me ? " a deadpan Alain says . Without any special effect , using shot / reverse shot , Guitry who was dismissed sometimes as a " filmed stage productions director " never puts the two brothers in the same picture . At this stage of the story , everybody thinks : " the prodigal brother will settle everything a la Capra ; thanks to him , Albert will change , be a true honest man , and fall in love again with his spouse . " Guitry does not do what we expect , not at all . Pas du tout . I cannot tell what happens next , for writing a spoiler would be a crime , even with a warning . Although it often takes the form of a comedy , Guitry's film is a desperate meditation on man's destiny : might it be possible that he could pick up the pieces , start a brand new life ? Does the second chance really exist ? Sometimes it even takes the form of a detective story , a la Georges Simenon ( the testament , Dr Ogier's phone call ) . The last picture is as pessimistic as anything Julien Duvivier ever produced : it speaks volumes about Guitry's somber philosophy . Michel Simon proves here , once again , once more , that he was unique and irreplaceable . He plays two extremely difficult parts - which grow even harder as the movie progresses - . I wish Cesars had existed at the time . The supporting cast is excellent : Marguerite Pierry is effective as the submissive drab spouse ; Pauline Carton remains true to form ; Lana Marconi has a small part of a prostitute . But something will interest Louis De Funès ' s fans : not only he plays the part of the servant but he also teams up with Claude Gensac , his future " wife " in " The Gendarme from Saint-Tropez " saga . Of course Guitry and Jean Girault are worlds apart and it's too bad that Funes never found a true great director afterward . Even if you ' re your worst enemy Sick and tired of yourself Sick of your routine life You cannot spend your whole life Throwing yourself in the water . See this chef - d'oeuvre at any price !
Romantic Duvivier	In a world as black as Duvivier's , " Marianne de ma jeunesse " seems like an anomaly . This movie was looked upon , for a while , as the film equivalent of Alain-Fournier's " le grand Meaulnes " , but as so many movies of the fifties , it was overshadowed by the impending coming for the nouvelle vague . Hindsight displays its charms . Pierre Vaneck portrays a young romantic high school student , in a remote castle on the misty banks of a lake . Across the lake , there lives a mysterious beautiful woman who seems to be in jeopardy . The atmosphere is dreamy , and the audience sometimes stops and wonders whether the story is a fairy tale or not . Sandwiched , in Duvivier's work , between two very noir films , " l'affaire Maurizius " , and " voici le temps des assassins " - which I urge everybody to see if he can - , " Marianne " seems like a truce , a quiet place where the man's soul remains chaste and pure . The black and white cinematography is close to perfect .
macadam cowboy	A young dishwasher from Texas , Joe Buck ( Jon Voight ) decides to climb the social ladder in New York where he thinks that thanks to his charm and his handsome appearance , he'll have no trouble seducing rich women . Alas ! He comes up against disappointments and disillusions . As he becomes penniless , he's bent on prostituting himself to survive until he makes the acquaintance of a small Italian immigrant Ritso Razzo ( Dustin Hoffman ) who struggles to live through cons and tricks and lives in a hovel . A solid friendship brings the two men closer and Razzo confides to his new found friend his desire to leave for Florida and its warm climate . Times become distressing with the arrival of winter . Joe would have recourse to theft to pay the trip to the promised land . . . When " Midnight Cowboy " appeared on the American screens , it received a X certificate and was the first American film to pocket an Oscar with this certificate ! It's easy to see what seduced the members of the jury to bestow this gem from John Schlesinger with actually three golden statuettes but today this X certificate seems quite pointless . There are strong sexual sequences but crowds have seen worse since . Anyway , " Midnight Cowboy " is along with " Marathon Man " ( 1976 ) Schlesinger's peak . The friendship he showed between this mismatched pair who are his two main characters is shot with reserve and sensibility . Joe Buck a good-looking , naive young man with a child's face who will gradually lose his innocence through his degeneration in the murky darkness of New York . Who else but Jon Voight could perform this pure character who wasn't prepared at all for a cruel world ? A cruel world depicted in a hard-hitting way by the filmmaker . Ritso Razzo a tuberculous Italian immigrant who craves to get out of this hell to take refuge in Florida . Schlesinger's camera work is inventive to say the least and almost always adequate with the vibe one sequence could convey . With shrewd cinematographic methods he unveils us some parts of his two characters ' persona like Joe's troubled childhood or Razzo's wild dreams in Florida . Their relationship is a sunbeam in a cloudy even ominous sky . Human dignity is preserved as much as possible . What else to add ? It's indispensable to have seen this film for your own cinematographic culture . But for Schlesinger , the slump will occur with his subsequent film , the mediocre " Sunday Bloody Sunday " ( 1971 ) .
Greed	This is an excellent adaptation of Zola's much-debated novel about the peasants , the 15th volume in the Rougon-Macquart saga . A lot of people thought when the book was published , that Zola gave to the world a too pessimistic vision of the people from the country , that he showed them as beasts . It's a far cry from George Sand's pastoral works such " La Mare Au Diable " or " La Petite Fadette " . André Antoine focused his movie on the patriarch , Le Père Fouan , whereas the novel had no central character but a profusion of cupid tight-fisted greedy men and women , each one more despicable than the one before . As the book was part of the Rougon-Macquart saga , Zola had to introduce one member of that family into the story : Jean Macquart plays a similar part to that of Etienne in " Germinal " . And he is featured in the movie too ; even Uncle Charles is showed , in a very short sequence and there is a hint at his " sweets shop " , in fact a brothel . Le Père Fouan wants to retire , so he divides up his land between his two sons , Buteau - who got a girl pregnant and is waiting for his share to marry her - and Jesus - Christ - who lives with his daughter , La Trouille ( = Jitters and not " Pest " as the subtitles read ) , by poaching , and his daughter Fanny , a fanatical about cleanliness . Le Père Fouan seems at first the only positive character ( with the exception of Jean , but Jean is an outsider ) , a victim of his offspring's ungratefulness : but he is much like them when he hides his " treasure " . Le Père Fouan realizes in the admirable scenes that the land should not have been divided ( " look what the ants do with it " one of his pals says ) ; he used to own this land , this ocean of fields on the plains around Chartres ( the movie was filmed on location ) , and now , he is only looking for a place to live in . But it's too late and only the earth can greet him . Directed by André Antoine ; one of his assistants was none other than Julien Duvivier , whose legendary pessimism would show in his masterpieces .
the adventures of the Bride , round 2	Here comes the Bride again in what was one of the most-anticipated films of 2004 which like its elder brother " Kill Bill : Vol . 1 " ( 2003 ) generated much hype . So far , she killed two important enemies ( and many more into the bargain ) and so erased two names on her list . There are still three left including Bill who will come last . Through its title , " Kill Bill : Vol . 2 " is both a sequel and a non-sequel . The Bride perseveres in her vengeful adventure still related in a chronological disorder but in some chapters or telling flashbacks , Quentin Tarantino reveals us some facts of her past life , notably how she became an expert at martial arts and so how she acquired her knowledge in this domain . Otherwise , this second installment is here to illustrate the famous sentence : " revenge is a dish best served cold " . And like its elder brother " Kill Bill : Vol . 1 " ( 2003 ) , it's still painstakingly shot . The composition of every sequence , the way they interlock even the position of the characters . Everything is precise , set in a pedantic manner and filled with neat visual or scenarist ideas . About this , I would like to mention the first sequence , the key one which is the origin of the Bride's bloody , vengeful adventure . It's of course , the famous massacre scene in the church isolated in the desert . Tarantino favored off-camera so we will see almost nothing of it but the sounds of the massacre . Another scene is the fight between Uma Thurman and Daryl Hannah . Tarantino pulls it off with gusto to insert a violent fight in a cramped place which is a trailer . Then like in the great tradition of the film in which two antagonist protagonists confront each other , the filmmaker delays the final , decisive meeting between them until the end and when this moment will arrive , it won't be what the audience will expect in its construction and its evolution . Like in its elder companion , the Bride perseveres in her desire of revenge and its fulfillment and as for Tarantino , he continues in his quest to pay homage to essentially the samurai film and the spaghetti western . Thus , " Kill Bill : Vol . 2 " is filled with cinema-going details , borrowings or influences , here mainly linked to the second cinematographic genre . John Ford and Sergio Leone's worlds are quoted and in another extent , I wonder whether the scene when Budd buries alive the Bride in the ground wasn't influenced by George Sluizier's chilling " Spoorloos " ( 1988 ) . But " Kill Bill : Vol . 2 " differs from its elder brother on numerous points . About the influences , if the samurai film was essentially to the fore in the first installment , the second one favors the spaghetti western , would it be only by the scenery and the barren landscapes . And as many users pointed out before , violent fights were the most momentous scenes in " Kill Bill : Vol . 1 " , at least the scenes which were the most vivid to the audience . These scenes take a back seat in " Kill Bill : Vol . 2 " in spite of the admirable fight sequence I mentioned above . An increasing psychological tension in the confrontations between the characters reigns during a good part of the movie . Besides , the first sequence which partly showcases a long conversation between the Bride and her worst enemy Bill sets the scene for this chosen perspective . So , action and stunts are relegated to a position of secondary importance to leave the place to long , chatty sequences but Tarantino could have deleted Bill's superfluous words about Superman . Be that as it may , it was maybe the best choice from Tarantino because these long conversations have several functions : to act as a counterbalance to the choreographed action scenes , to unveil the characters ' motivations and for the Bride , eloquent bribes of her past . This assumed side from Tarantino to put the accent on the dialogs ( very good in most of them ) enables to appreciate the performances of the whole cast and this , perhaps more than in the debut opus . Minor characters aren't forgotten and I would grant a distinction to Michael Madsen as Budd , perhaps the best of the batch . The pinnacle of his acting has to be found in the scene when he's about to bury alive the Bride , he just has to say simple but formidable words to tame her . I repeat it : I'm not really a Tarantino devotee but I have a warm spot on these two " Kill Bill " movies and I would trade " Pulp Fiction " ( 1994 ) for this duo of films . Various influences from diverse horizons were melded to give two well-rounded flicks which in spite of their different contents complete themselves . Was it wise from Tarantino to release it on two volumes ? I think so because if the two films had been bridged end to end , it would have given a spotty , irregular film . So , it was perhaps necessary to divide two distinct parts .
Mock - western in true color .	Once upon a time , there were great parts for women . . . . Can this be called western ? The form looks like a western , but the content is a thousand miles away from Ford , Daves , Mann . Only Walsh and his psychopathologic heroes ( " pursued " ) can vaguely be Ray's predecessor . This is a gaudy extravaganza , in which trucolor ( sic ) allows extraordinary shots . Vienna's saloon does not look like a saloon at all . When Emma and her acolytes come to hang her , she is sitting in a white dress , playing the piano , against a fire-colored backdrop , she looks like a fallen aristocrat from the court of . . Vienna ? Sometimes the characters merge in the setting ( I'm part of the furniture , one man says ) . Sometimes everything is black , except for Vienna's and Johnny's faces and their dialogue becomes absolutely sublime . In one scene , Crawford repeats mechanically Johnny's words , then , a second time , with more feeling you'll ever know ( Yes , I was waiting for you ) What makes this western unique is the antagonism between the two women . Why does Emma exude hatred from every pore ? Is it because she's a puritan , but a repressed one , who envies Vienna and her bevy of lovers ? Or , most likely , because , she's attracted by her sexually . When Vienna appears , she's all dressed in black , she looks like a man ( one of the male characters say that men are not men compared to her ! ) To Emma , Vienna epitomizes evil , the forbidden fruit , the desire with which she's eaten , so she must die . MCCambridge is on a par with Crawford , and it is a pity she's always given supporting parts elsewhere . Turkey is a typical Ray character too . He's the adolescent , longing to be a man , but who needs the distaff side : when he's injured and asks for Vienna's help , he acts as if she were his mother . We meet again this kind of guy in " Run for cover " ( The couple John Derek / James Cagney try to rebuild the relation father / son ) and in " rebel without a cause " ( S . Mineo wishes N . Wood and J . Dean were his parents ) Turkey and the two other ones will meet tragic , doomed fate . For the final showdown , men take a back seat , and on the stage , only the two women remains . The happy end is tinged with bitterness , as it is in " run for cover " or " rebel without a cause " . Once upon a time there were great parts for women . But it was a long long time ago .
All this and France too . . . . .	Anatole Litvak certainly loved France . He made films in that country during the previous decade , some of which were remarkable . He ended his career in Victor Hugo's land but his latter efforts were not really exciting . Even when he was in Hollywood , he never forgot it as this " all this and Heaven too " , " Act of love " and parts of " decision at dawn " bear witness . France is currently rediscovering Litvak who was brought down , like so many great American directors ( Zinnemann , Wyler , Stevens ) , by the notorious critics of the Nouvelle Vague and their fusty Cahiers du Cinéma . But now their diktats are over and thanks to many contemporary historians of the French cinema ( Bertrand Tavernier , Patrick Brion ) , he is given in the country which was another homeland to him the place he had always deserved . " All this and Heaven too " might be my favorite Litvak movie , although his American career is as rich as that of any director . In spite of a historical gaffe ( " that woman overthrew Louis Philippe " is as laughable as Marie Antoinette's sentence ( which she never said ) " let them eat cake " . La Restoration and Louis - Philippe : After the 1789 French Revolution , the nobles emigrated and Napoleon , who was eager for a Court , made a new nobility . His officers , who were of common birth , were conferred a title : " Baron d'Empire " for instance ; that was Henriette's grandfather's case . Henriette is of that kind an old noble such as la Duchesse de Praslin can only treat like dirt ; those nobles were impostors ! With Henriette , it was hate at first sight , even before she became dear to the duke and the children . That old nobleness , epitomized by the duchess , was all bigotry , religion , but they were socialites first . In the XIX th century , those chic ladies did not care about their children they left to their governess . The Duchess was not alone : Balzac , Maupassant , Flaubert ( Madame Bovary did not really like her daughter ) and even a writer for children such la Comtesse de Segur painted a picture of the " bad " mother . The story happens in 1846-1847 , and Louis - Philippe's days as a king are numbered . The writers are asking for Republic : Lamartine who is mentioned in the film , and Victor Hugo - who wrote the article about Henriette in la Conciergerie - were not the least ; the latter was forced to exile himself after the fall of the short-lived Second Republic ( 1948-1952 ) . Had he lived half a century before , the duke would have been part of the daring nobles such as La Fayette who fought for the Revolution . Even if we are not told so , his union was probably a marriage of convenience . The Duchess is egoistic , neurotic , hateful , incapable of love and affection her children long for . A " pious " woman , but a woman who uses a priest to keep a close watch on her husband . Note the presence of the priest in the bedroom of a dying child . Litvak's directing is mind-boggling . He perfectly recreates the atmosphere of the desirable Hotel Particulier where the duke lives . His style is refined : the ball which we see on reflection on the mirrors is a scene Max Ophuls would have died for ; the brief moment of happiness on Hallows Eve ; the snow , symbol of purity : the duke is as virtuous and as loyal as Henriette . The performance in the THeatre Royal which the king attends and which finally backfires on the two heroes : Racine's " Phedre " - Rachel who is mentioned was the thespian of the era , her portrayal of the Greek heroine ( whose situation is not unlike the chaste lovers ' ) was praised to the sky then - . The prologue and the epilogue are excellent : the long flashback is introduced in a very original way . Davis , in front of the blackboard full of trigonometric formulas , begins to tell her tale . One of her lines in the epilogue is the most moving in the whole film : " Now , you write the ending of my story " she tells her students . An absorbing screenplay , where even a fairytale ( do you want to be happy when you are young or later when you get older ? / I'd rather be happy later : if I've got everything now , what can I expect from life afterward ? ) plays a prominent part . French Charles Boyer and Bette Davis give superlative performances and the supporting cast ( Barbara O'Neil almost steals the show from Davis sometimes ) including the four children ( special mention for little Reynald ) is up to scratch . This is the Creme de la Creme of the melodrama genre .
Crawling in the snow	Another silent movie by Borzage and another winner , with or without a lucky star ! Frank Borzage is the poet of compassion , of simple happiness , of the bright side of the human soul . Borzage's heroes ( " seventh heaven " " street angel " " little man what now ? " ) have got to fight against a hostile world . They have to give all they've got : Charles Farrell crawling in the snow would find an exact equivalent in the yet-to-come " the river " when Rosalee warms the lumberjack's naked body with her own body . Timothy , confined to a wheelchair , has everybody against his : the mother who dreams of a rich wedding for her daughter and the buck who seduces all the girls around . Like the other Borzagesque heroes , he never gives up , ready to sacrifice everything if the girl he loves ( Janet Gaynor ) finds true happiness .
And me I have Nick . . . . .	Except for the stunning but a bit implausible end , " kiss of death " is close to perfect . Hathaway was anything by sentimental ( except maybe in his romantic dream " Peter Ibetson " and his " kiss of death " is a film noir extraordinaire . The story is partly told by Nattie's voice over , a voice who tells us in the first minutes that if the hero acts as he does , he has no choice cause all his attempts to get a job have failed . In this cruel world , Hathaway introduces quiet lovely scenes : the music lesson in the orphanage is a great moment which sharply contrasts with the rest of the movie . The cast is first rate : Mature who was certainly more intelligent than he was given credit for plays a good guy down on his luck and who tries to pick up the pieces and to enjoy a home with his daughters and his new wife ; Donlevy gives a subtle performance , and it's he who gives the kiss of death of the title ; and last but not least , the absolutely outstanding Richard Widmark , who steals every scene he is in : his laugh is unforgettable , and the scene with Rizzo's disabled mother is in anyone's memory . No clichés , no femme fatale , no heroes , but a human being trying to survive in the urban jungle . The last part of the film is almost Hitchcockesque : Nick and his wife , in the night , fearing anything : a door which slams , a car in the streets , a shadow on the wall . " Wherever we were , HE would be waiting , waiting " . Another great movie by Hathaway as brilliant in film noir as he is in adventure movies ( " lives of a Bengal lancer " )
The granddaddy of " a perfect world " . . .	. . . . and " Gloria " ( 1980 ) and " Leon " as well . . . Charles Crichton , whose career spans the second half of the century ( " a fish named Wanda " ! ) , is definitely a director to upgrade . " Hunted " is a small gem , a suspenseful sensitive story which casts Bogarde as an unlucky murderer on the lam and young John Whiteley as a moving kid . A road movie , from the bleak city to the wild moors of Scotland , where a special chemistry between the man and the boy literally grows on the audience . Spoilers . Spoilers . Like all the great storytellers , Crichton introduces first Bogarde as the " villain " who abducts a cute brat . But further acquaintance shows this : actually both of them are victims of a society that increases the prestige of money , of Bogarde's boss who sleeps with his wife , a society that does not care a little bit about its orphans whom it leaves to hateful " parents " . The boy really acts as if he's got nothing to lose . Admirable sequence : In a bedroom they share for one night , Bogarde begins a bedtime story for his protégé : it's a fairy tale , a story of a giant . But little by little , the story becomes HIS own story : what a smart way of letting us know about the hero's past ! During this sequence , which takes place halfway through the film , we see the boy SMILE for the first time . His face is so beaming we are on the verge of tears . He will laugh later , in his pal's mean brother's house , during the meal . When Bogarde sails away with his " hostage " , he makes the story he told come true . End of spoilers . end of spoilersBogarde's rendering is a real tour de force and many consider this parthis first important one : tense , distraught , anguished , he runs the whole gamut of emotions . Matching him every step of the way is Whiteley's performance : in the three examples I mention at the beginning of my comment , which I admire ( with the exception of Besson's ) , the young actors cannot hold a candle to him . Instant karma : he won a special AA the following year , and was given the main part in Lang's " Moonfleet " in 1954 . Too bad his career stopped here . Crichton had often been labeled " for the whole family " . But they totally missed the point : " hunted " is not a rosy work , its open ending does not settle the things , but increases our fear of what will become of our two so endearing heroes . His directing is now nervous - the first sequences when the heroes do not stop running - , now intimate - all the scenes where the two characters hang on to each other , now poetic - the seagulls which accompany the triumphant voyage . A wonderful use of nature ( not unlike Charles Laughton's " the night of the hunter " ) and its wildlife where the runaways take refuge . Wonderful movie .
Nouveau riche	In spite of a very poor rating , this film is really a killer ! By far Jean Dreville's most important film as well as one of the best Charles Vanel's performances . First intended for Raimu , it seems that Vanel was finally a better choice and anyway if you give this movie a chance , he's gonna blow your mind . Lord ! What an actor ! MOnsieur Lechat is a nouveau riche : he epitomizes the American dream turned French . A self made man , he worked his way up and now he lives in luxury in a desirable mansion where his missus ( who tells her daughter that if there are poor people it's because they are lazy ) is ill-at-ease ( it's so huge , I cannot get used to it ) . He ' scompletely devoid of compassion , a heart of stone and a desire to push people out of his way , a smug smile every time he puts one of his business ' colleagues down . He feels no remorse when he learns a man committed suicide whereas he could have saved him effortlessly . " Business is business " is Octave Mirbeau's play masterfully transferred to the screen . Monsieur Lechat makes all Chabrol's bourgeois seem nice by comparison . Monsieur Lechat ' s next victim is to be the Marquis de Porcellet ( Marquis of Piglet ) . Now the bourgeois have replaced the nobles at the top , and there is no room there for the ruined aristocrats except . . . if they let their son marries the wealthy businessman's daughter . For , like Monsieur Jourdain , in Molière ' s " Le Bourgeois Gentilhomme " , Monsieur Lechat wants his daughter to be a Marquise ( and maybe a duchess ) . Unlike Jourdain , Lechat is no idiot and he kills two birds with one stone : he enters an obsolete world which retained in the first half of the twentieth century some prestige ; and he humiliates a man whose pride , honor , duty and moral values are his reasons to live . But if Mirbeau shows some sympathy for the Marquis ( and finally avenges him ) , he does believe that all those values are doomed and fast becoming things of bygone days . " Les Affaires Sont les Affaires " , released in the darkest year of the Occupation is almost a desperate work : only the tycoon's daughter , by breaking off communication with her family , may mean hope for the future . Her lover is a scientist the discoveries of whom the daddy wanted to take over . 72 minutes : evil reigns .
run , run , run ( the Velvet Underground ) . . .	The story takes place in Berlin . Manni , one of the two main characters of the movie is in dire straits . Indeed , he works for a dealer and has forgotten a substantial amount of money in the subway ( 100 000 marks ! ) . If he hasn't given this amount to his boss before midday , he is dead . So you can imagine his state . But his girlfriend , Lola is well decided not to give him up and to get him out of this tight spot . And fortunately , she has an idea to find 100 000 marks . But she must be quick . She has only 20 minutes in front of her to get the money and to save her man . Someone who didn't see " Lola rennt " ( 1998 ) and reads the basic topic might think that he deals with a movie with a hackneyed subject . However , if he is told that the treatment is drastically different , then we may incite him to watch this movie and he probably won't regret it . Indeed , following the starting point , the movie puts forward 3 solutions to solve Manni's trouble . Either , Lola's father refuses to lend her money , either Lola holds up the bank , either , she can't get through to her father . So , this will give birth to 3 different stories which will lead to 3 different conclusions . Inside these stories , a detail , a little moment is sufficient to change Lola's running in the street and it can also modify the course of things . For example , when Lola leaves her flat , there's a young man with a dog in the corridor . Will he trip Lola up ? Will she hesitate a moment because of the dog ? Will she jump over it ? If she chooses one of these three solutions , it can lead to dramatic consequences for others characters ( her father's colleague in the car ) . By adopting a clip side " à la MTV " in the making , by using all the possibilities offered by a camera ( succession of pictures filmed in a fast way or scenes in slow motion ) , by including wild extracts of animation film , through precise camera angles " à la David Fincher " and with a sharp sense of detail , the director Tom Tykwer makes us really share her heroin's state of stress and the fact of knowing that to save her boyfriend is a matter of life and death strikes right at the heart . Lola's uneasiness is heightened by the fact that every time she meets someone in the street , odd sometimes spooky thoughts come thick and fast . Rarely has a director has so well combined anxiety and excitation to the spectator . We allow ourselves to be led astray by Lola's unrestrained running with frenzy while bearing in mind , the fear of time which inexorably passes . It is also relevant to note down that Tykwer's camera nearly never stands still and finds moments of break between the three stories when Lola and Manni are lying side by side . Franka Potente with her loud red hair ( which I interpret as a symbol of hope mingled with fear ) in the wind , wearing a tank top spends most of her time to run in the film , hounded by the camera which continually follows her everywhere she goes , either it is a little street , an avenue or a building site but she also capable of emotion ( when her father refuses to give her financial help , she starts to cry ) . Let's just regret heavy effects ( when she screams , she can break glass . A movie with such a treatment was to be destined to make a beautiful career abroad . Lola had run with enormous success on numerous German screens , she had to run on plenty others foreign screens a bit all over the world to satisfy a lot of viewers . The clip side of the whole , the sustained use of the techno music will probably fail to please certain film enthusiasts but will surely perceive " Lola rennt " as a lively and a really great exercise of style . An exciting experience which is worth the trip and after the projection , Lola keeps on running in the mind of the ecstatic spectator .
. . . . and I love animals ( Def Leppard ) .	Frédéric Rossif specialized in two types of documentary : the historic documentary : " mourir à Madrid " ( 1963 ) and the second one concerns animals . Here , " la fête sauvage " ranks in the second quoted type . It's obvious that Rossif takes pleasure in filming animals . His documentary articulates and focuses on several key-moments in the life of an animal : love and its rituals , the anxiety of death , the hunting of the different carnivorous ( the lion , the cheetah , the tiger etc . . . ) . If Rossif favours the use of a slow camera , it's precisely in the goal of a better observation of the animal in its action and ( why not ? ) in its living environment . Sometimes , the film-maker tries to define the animal's feelings . Besides , no matter who the animals are because Rossif never favours any animal . He simply films them with much distance as possible . We are under the impression that the movie searches for the aesthetic beauty and it reaches its goal . This beauty expresses itself by some sumptuous pictures and they create a entrancing climate supported by Vangelis ' fascinating music . The best sequence is probably the wildebeest hunting of the two lionesses . Even if the comments told are sometimes difficult to understand , they're a good way to enrich your culture of the world animal . At the end , this is a beautiful book of pictures and the work of a keen filmmaker who showed patience . If you wish to discover other Rossif's animal documentaries , try " les animaux " or " sauvage et beau " .
when the cat's away , Chloé learns more about herself . . .	1996 was the year during which Cédric Klapisch definitely imposed his talent in the landscape of French cinema thanks to two feature movies : " un air de famille " and " chacun cherche son chat " . The ones who have been enthralled by these two flicks won't contradict me . Written day-to-day on account of the evolution of the story , shot with a shoestring budget , acted by only 2 or 3 professional comedians and virtually non-professional actors , " chacun cherche son chat " confirms all the hopes placed in Klapisch . One thing I noticed with him is that he has the gift to entitle his movies with catchy and funny titles ( which can only be understood by French-speaking people ; here " chacun cherche son chat " was translated abroad by : " when the cat's away " whereas the original title in French is " everyone's looking for his / her cat " ) . " Chacun cherche son chat " clearly obeys to this trend . The main character is a teenage girl , Chloé who's looking for her cat in a popular neighborhood in Paris . We find again in this film , a few themes and features peculiar to Klapisch which he will develop and improve in his future movies like the initiatory voyage " l'auberge Espagnole " ( 2002 ) . About it , for Klapisch the loss of Chloé's cat " Grisgris " mainly serves as a pretext to confront her heroin with the exterior world , in the street . She will gradually leave her naive and egocentric world to get interested in the people who surround her and to strike up friendships with several people . In a way , the director tries to communicate us a nearly identical message to the one in " Groundhog Day " ( 1993 ) : you have to open yourselves to others which enables to see the world under another ( and better ) angle . Then , I previously mentioned Klapisch's features . I won't linger on them . I will just say that two of them shine . The director knows how to associate an ironic and tender look in the portrait of his characters and he seems very close to them . In another hand , he just has to proceed by little touches to make a situation intense ( I think of the moment when Chloé meets Michel's latest lover ) . But if there's a more admirable thing in Klapisch's opus , it's the directing of actors . Each one of them is perfectly used . Garence Clavel is a real revelation whereas some of her partners see their talent evolving ( Zinedine Soualem and Romain Duris , two actors from Klapisch's gang ) . And this dear Mrs Renée ! Very far from the commonplaces and stereotypes commonly attributed to old people , she's also the opposite of Etienne Chatiliez's " tatie Danielle " . The director also grants a great attention to the non-professional actors , even to those who have a minor role . Most of them appear for a few minutes on the screen but their presences remain in the memories . Moreover , the solidarity which strongly links its inhabitants ( no matter their age ) clashes with the place of the action and the dramatic changes which occur in it : a dying popular neighborhood . We can often see in the film , shots of buildings razed or half razed to the ground . " Chacun cherche son chat " is beneficial cinema like we would like to watch it more often and this one , " Le péril jeune " ( 1994 ) , " un air de famille " and " l'auberge Espagnole " can secure Klapisch's place in the limited circle of the greatest French film-makers of these last years . And by the way , thank you Mr Klapisch for making movies that make me happy .
The ogre .	" Que la bête meure " belongs to Chabrol's golden era . This is one of his most brilliant achievements , and , nevertheless , he would do even better with the next one " le boucher " , with , again , Jean Yanne , an actor , who , before , was featured in generally mediocre commercial movies . In his two films with Chabrol , Yanne will show skills we would never thought of . Both characters , in " que la bete . . . " and " le boucher " are monsters ; but monsters of different kinds : in " le boucher " , Yanne is pitiful , moving , a product of the war ( in Algeria ? ) On the other hand , in " Que la bête . . . " , he's a hateful vulgar petit bourgeois brute . Compare the way Chabrol introduces his characters : in " le boucher " , Popaul appears in the first scene , the wedding banquet , and he seems a good guy . In " Que la bête . . . " , Chabrol does not show his face during Duchaussoy's son death on the road . When finally , the father discovers the reckless driver's house , we meet first his scared family circle . Then we hear his formidable voice . All happens like in a fairy tale : Tom Thumb entering the ogre's den . Perhaps Chabrol's most terrifying character , he holds up to ridicule his wife's attempt at poetry and he cannot understand his son , a frail , sensitive , and clever teenager . The plot will take shape quickly , and after this story of sound and fury , the last pictures brings the audience some relief . Note , in both films , " le boucher " and " Que la bête . . " , the presence of water in these last pictures .
an excellent film	Although this film that is a remake of the Julien Duvivier's film " Panique " ( released in 1948 ) only lasts about one hour and twenty minutes , there is so much to say about it . Among the qualities that this film shows , the most important is its main actor . Indeed , Michel Blanc performs brilliantly this weird character hated by everyone that is Monsieur Hire . Moreover , we can notice that the film doesn't only focus on the plot , it also focuses on the character of Monsieur Hire himself . Of course , this man is unpleasant towards his neighbours , but Patrice Leconte attempts to make us touching this man . Among the other qualities , let's quote : Sandrine Bonnaire's performance which is smooth but cruel , the good use of Brahms ' music , the quality of the photography and the film set ( especially Hire's flat ) . As a conclusion , a great film from a director who is , however , more famous for his comic films such as " Les Bronzés " , " Viens chez moi , j'habite chez une copine " .
or the portrait of a young man , victim of his naivety	When this movie was released in 1974 , it created a huge scandal and strong controversies because it was the first movie about the second world war to introduce a collaborator and not a resistant as a main character . Louis Malle was surely affected by these controversies and he decided to escape into the dream and imagination in his next film : the odd and underrated " Black Moon " . So the main character here , Lucien Lacombe , is a member of the German police but he didn't choose this situation because he is anti-semitic or he's fond of Nazi thesis . It's simply because he is a victim of his naivety and of his foolishness and he's easy to persuade . Several times in the movie , you are under the impression that he doesn't know what he's doing or saying ( for example , when he's drinking champagne with Albert Horn , a Jew tailor and his daughter France ) . On the other hand , the stroke is responsible of Lucien's entrance in the collaboration : the school teacher doesn't want him to enter the Resistance because he's too young , he had a flat tyre . . . . Moreover , the action takes place in june 1944 and it's not the right era : it's nearly the end of the war I also noticed that the collaborators were initiating him into several activities ( at one moment , one of them is learning him to fire with a browning ) without taking care of his opinion . With all these happenings , Lucien's behaviour is changing : he becomes rough , haughty , scornful , takes advantage of his wealthy life and committs a few errors ( Horn is under arrest due to him and he didn't want it to happen ) . At the end , Pierre Blaise provides a great calibre in his main rôle and thanks to this , the film is strong , powerful and remain one of Malle's best films . Note : the movie was inspired by a real fact : during the second world war in France , a young collaborator had arrested and killed numerous resistants .
Before the flood .	That was the beginning of the era when André Cayatte was championing all the good causes . Coming after " justice est faite " ( about euthanasia ) and " nous sommes tous des assassins " ( about the death penalty , a subject which was unusual at the time ) , " avant le déluge " showed the youth's anguish after WW2 , when they talked about a third world war in the fifties . Unable to relate to their parents , and frightened by the bleak future that was left for them , a girl and four boys want to do what Noah did : escape to an Island in the sun on a boat . But their disposable funds are low and they get involved with robbery and murder , which leads them to their standing trial . In fact , Cayatte put the parents in trial , and if his plea was unsubtle and devoid of nuance , it was a heartfelt account of an utterly distraught generation . ANOTHER LOOK AT " AVANT LE DELUGE " ( 2006 ) Given the high rating on the IMDb board , and the poor reviews it gets in French books , it ' s obvious that this movie needs reassessment . " It is a dated movie , sneer French critics , forgetting that it's its greatest quality : it is a film which was made in the early fifties and it does belong to that era . one cannot think of such a screenplay in our ( troubled however ) times . and nevertheless , the movie had problems with the censorship which found it hard to believe such youngsters could turn into criminals . the movie repeats it twice " he is only 17 " " he's just turned seventeen " " she's not seventeen " . The movie got a PG 16 although , except for one sequence , it is not violent , even compared to its time's standards . these are not natural born killers . they became murderers by chance . with a little luck , things would have worked out fine . and there are the parents . . . . . . . . blame it on mama , on papa ! Cayatte holds the parents responsible for everything . Once again , it was trendy to laugh at Cayatte in those fusty Cahiers du Cinema . The parents are caricatures , stereotypes , but the director wanted them to be so . . . . . WW2 collaborator whose hate for Jews verges on paranoia . . . . liberal father whose naiveté predates May 68 and the post-81 disappointment ( left / right / left / right , it is all the same ) . . . . wealthy parents whose concern is to make sure their fortune will be safe when the flood comes . . . . over possessive mother whose son has difficulties finding his sexual identity . . . . . and no parents at all , as far the young Jew is concerned . . . . These parents are afraid . . . they fear that the Corean war might turn WW3 . They never stop talking about this impending war . That's why their sons and daughter are beyond their command : fifteen years later , they would have gone to India , or become hippies . In 1953 , it is still the old dream of sailing away to the islands in the sun ( see " Quai des Brumes " or " les Portes dela Nuit " ) A critic noticed that the film the young Jew shows to his friend , a shy boy under his mom's thumb , ( one of the other boys even uses the word " minion " ) features only male natives ; their relationship is certainly homosexual , even if the repressed young man cannot take the plunge . This is really a lost generation , the generation who will be sacrificed in another dirty war in Algeria . The last pictures , even if WW3 will not happen , pack a real wallop and are not telling the audience " we've had a narrow escape " but " watch out it's not over , it has just begun " those parents are in fact no more stereotypes than Nicholas Ray's families in " rebel without a cause " . when Philippe screams " Mom ! please help me " behind her locked door , he is not more ridiculous than Dean or Wood in the American movie . Best scene : the killing of Daniel . Remembering what his crazy father said about the Jews , in his black raincoat , Jean does what the Gestapo used to do ten years before . For this is a film noir , full of despair and pessimism ; Cayatte's most complex work , admired by Bergman and Bunuel , it has worn remarkably well , just because it is a dated work : unique .
Patrice Leconte leads with brio a " tandem " of two terrific actors	A movie released in 1987 , " Tandem " represents a turning point in Patrice Leconte's work . Indeed , from this film , this brilliant director gives up comedy to shot more dramatic movies which will enable him to assert a more personal and more original style . Thus , " Tandem " is the first of a quite long series of movies that will make Leconte one of the most accomplished French filmmakers ever . " Tandem " is a thrilling and consistent film in the way Leconte succeeds in cleverly blending road-movie , drama and comedy . The latter expresses itself in several forms . For example , several details of the movie gives it a little surrealist air ( Rivetot who has an obsessive fear of red dog , Mortez who can't stand the sight of drivers who have a picnic on the edge of the road ) . Leconte uses these somewhat absurd details to shot comical situations . The best example can be found in the following sequence : as Mortez and Rivetot's car breaks down , they have to host their radio program in the country . The candidates are the ones who fixed them and they are people who are actually picnickers ! Concerning drama , it is especially present in the background of the film : Rivetot's will to hide the truth from Mortez about the cancellation of the game . On another hand , in dramatic sequences Leconte knows how to create the emotion , partly thanks to the music . Then , " Tandem " is served by two exceptionally talented actors . Leconte describes then with a touch of ironic humor . On one hand , Jean Rochefort ( who will often be one of Leconte's favorite actors ) , a proud and haughty man who only lives for his radio program . On another hand , Gérard Jugnot , a jovial man who is impressed by his partner ( it is to be noted that it is the first movie in which he acts without his mustache ) . Through their adventure , not only is it a real friendship story that Leconte aims at showing us . Ultimately , " Tandem " is a fine success of a gifted director and if you wish to discover Patrice Leconte's movies , this one constitutes a good start .
Le parchemin du diable . . .	I urge the users who saw " night of the demon " to try and find " la Main du Diable " ( 1942 ) by Maurice Tourneur , Jack's ( or Jacques ) ' s own father . Inspired by a Gerard de Nerval's short story and written by Jean - Paul Le Chanois , the script revolves around the same idea : a hand which was supposed to make people rich and famous and who becomes a curse Trying to get rid of it becomes an obsession for the unfortunate owner . . . . . . it plays the same role as the parchment in the son's film . Both films feature an absorbing screenplay , fine acting and exciting directing . Betrayed by its producers , " Night of the Demon " features two appearances of the monster which should never have been included . When horror is suggested , when it might have a rational explanation , we do not need such an explanation ; what a disappointment it would have been if we had seen Rosemary's baby ! and what a disappointment if we had seen " everything " in " Cat people " ( remember that the 1982 remake was a failure for that reason ) ! In spite of that drawback , which was not the director's fault , everything that remains is simply splendid , a must see for horror and fantasy buffs . All the scenes are strong and an atmosphere of fear is lingering even after the viewing . Remarkable sequences : the scene when Karswell throws a party for children disguised as a clown ; The storm predates the scene of the priest ' s death in " the Omen " by twenty years . Dana Andrews walking through the wood where an impending menace is in the air . The fight with the cat ( ? ) . A patient under hypnosis going mad . Actually , Tourneur makes every place he films threatening , from the huge library to the farm where a clannish family seems to know more than they should , from the séance in the dark when Harrington speaks to Joanna to the ancient vestiges and its maleficent runes and the sinister railroad track . Scary night !
Badlands , you gotta live it everyday . . .	It's really a shame that Terrence Malick didn't have the brilliant career he deserved at Hollywood . Shot with a nearly shoestring budget , " Badlands " remains one of the most dazzling debut movies of all time . Malick's legend based on his ( long ) absence has helped it to become a cult-movie . Inspired by a tragic short news item which took place in 1959 ( a young couple who decides to commit a series of free murders to leave a mark in history ) , the odds are that Malick's first feature-length movie inspired Oliver Stone and Quentin Tarantino for their dangerous and irresponsible " Natural Born Killers " ( 1994 ) . Concerning Tarantino , I read an interview about him in which he expressed his admiration of Malick's work . It shows that the author of " Pulp Fiction " ( 1994 ) has a great esteem for this talented and mysterious film-maker . At the same time , we can also note down that Malick's work inspired Bruce " the Boss " Springsteen two songs : " Badlands " on his " darkness on the edge of town " album ( 1978 ) and " nebraska " on the eponymous LP ( 1982 ) . An American journalist had written that " Badlands " was the best mastered movie in the history of cinema since " Citizen Kane " ( 1941 ) by Orson Welles . One can judge this affirmation as exaggerated but it is nevertheless indisputable that Malick's opus strikes on numerous aspects : an assertive and opaque story , a fluid making , a relevant screenplay , an original photography which gives to the landscapes an image of desolation and lost paradise perturbed by a free violence . The work is also strongly steeped in a certain poetry . Concerning the two main characters , a French critic had written that it was difficult to feel liking for these two irresponsible . I think that this critic badly analyzed the film . Terrence Malick doesn't try to make them likable to us . He describes them without kindness and condescension . They haven't got an imposing personality and live only through an intermediary myth . It is particularly obvious for the young man ( Martin Sheen ) who is obsessed with James Dean . One can also say that Sissi Spacek's voice-over which tells this dramatic story is of an amazing neutrality . Then , unlike many criminal lovers , Sheen and Spacek will live at the heart of this violence and the latter won't bring them together or take them away . With " Badlands " , Malick was judicious for the choice of the actors . In a way , his first movie enabled to put Sheen and Spacek on the map and it also launched their respective careers . Then , what happened to Terrence Malick after this sensational debut movie ? A second movie , " Days of Heaven " ( 1978 ) starring Richard Gere as successful as " Badlands " . After that , for twenty years , nothing . However , in 1998 , Malick made a rather successful come-back with " the Thin Red Line " ( 1998 ) . According to the latest news , he would currently shoot a movie about the first years of America's colonization in the beginning of the seventeenth century . If my memory serves me well , the movie will be released next year . Let's hope so . . .
Fritz Lang's holiday homework part two .	The second part of " der Tiger von Eschnapur " begins with a de rigueur summary . Although it's the same movie divided into two for business concern , " das Indische Grabmal " surpasses its predecessor and makes it sometimes look like a trailer . All promises are fulfilled ; Everything Lang threatened to achieve in " der Tiger " materializes here . Here the two worlds ( the luminous world of the maharajah and the subterraneans where the darkest secrets are hidden ) play an equal part . How can't we think of " Metropolis " when the lepers come up the stairs and force their way in the light of day ? The maharajah is much more than a comic strip character here . He appears as a tortured man - the actor who plays this monarch is actually a German one , the one who plays count Andrassy is the " Sissi " saga - . Little by little , we discover that he's in fact the real hero of the story-Mercier is absent during an hour in this part - : his evolution is downright intriguing . At the end of the story he found peace of mind in a completely unexpected way . Remarkable scenes : the spider that spins its web and thus protects the lovers ; their enemies seen behind this providential shield . Paget's erotic dance in front of the snake ( which echoes to the long scene in the first part when Mercier watches her dancing ) . And mainly , mainly , these labyrinthine subterraneans which may represent the dark side of the mind . The two worlds ( he said that in " die Nibelungen " ( 1924 ) , there were four worlds ! ) are a permanent feature in Lang's canon : of course " Metropolis " springs to mind . But think of the underworld of " M " ; the double life of Andrews in " beyond a reasonable doubt " ; the child's world and the adults ' one in " Moonfleet " ; the " normal " side of life and the secret one beyond the door in the eponymous movie ; real life and dream ( but where is the frontier ? ) in " woman in the window " . Fritz Lang's holiday homework is actually his testament . He would do one more movie ( " die tausend Augen des Doctor Mabuse " ) , but it seemed that , like his hero , he had found peace of mind in this movie . You can forget , unless you're a highbrow , his part in Godard's notorious " le mépris " . Like John Huston or Joseph Mankiewicz , Lang finished his career brilliantly .
Exponential melodrama	The greatness in this movie essentially lies in the two black characters . The scene at school when the young daughter is ashamed of her mother is unforgettable . As for Juanita Moore's funeral , it might be the most moving final a movie can have : a cast of thousands , Mahalia Jackson , and the prodigal daughter who cries over her mother's coffin screaming " forgive me mama " . Douglas Sirk gets away with the honors : such a tear-jerker screenplay could have been disastrous with any lesser talent . The Lana Turner / John Gavin affair is much more conventional and the story of the woman who prefers movie stardom ( imitation of life ? ) to the warm love of a good man ( " true " life ? ) has been told before . Besides , one can wonder where is the " true " life and where is the " imitation " . You've got to be a real macho like Gavin's character to think that a woman is born to be a housewife . Don't forget your box of kleenex .
Exciting French whodunit thriller .	It's a Georges Lacombe ' s movie , but actually , it marks the birth of a giant of the French cinema : Henri-George Clouzot . Here credited " Georges Clouzot " , he wrote the dialogue , and his wicked sarcastic humor occasionally surfaces . From Belgian Stanislas-André Steeman ' s detective story " six hommes morts " ( six dead men ) , it's really a very exciting thriller . Six friends go their separate ways during five years in order to make their fortune around the world . When they go back , some have succeeded , some have failed . But one of them covets the whole pile and is doing away with his former mates . To reveal more would be a real spoiler . Suffice to say there's a very good suspense sustained till the very end . Not only Clouzot wrote the script , but he also provided the movie with a female star : his then-partner Suzy Delair . She portrays exasperating Mila Malou , detective Wens ( Fresnay ) ' s girlfriend . The movie was a commercial success , and Clouzot became a director : his first movie was the wonderful " l'assassin habite au 21 " ( a must ! a must ! ) which reunited Fresnay and Delair playing the same characters of another SA Steeman book .
Bravery and cowardice	Henri Calef's movie is thoroughly remarkable , one of the best films dealing with WW2 ever . Based on a true story . 1944 : A train full of petrol ( gasoline ) has stopped in the station of Amiens . The German army , still occupying France , fears sabotage . So they decide to take 50 hostages : if the resistant fighters attack the train , they will be shot . Brilliant scenes : The sleepy town where people hide , afraid of the boots marching in the streets . The city council , who has got to choose the hostages . " We've got to put our names at the top of the list " says the mayor . But two members are frightened and they resign their mandate . The scenes in the jail , where a man ( Pierre Brasseur ) is so afraid of dying he'd do anything to save his life , even boots-licking . " I know where the commies and the Jews are " he shouts at the soldiers . The scenes involving the resistance fighters : some of them do not want to carry out their mission " My parents are there in town . Your family is away , they will be safe / Of course they will be safe : my father died in WW1 and my wife was taken to Germany and beheaded " . But it's the long sequence in the church were the hostages are imprisoned which climaxes the film . Calef avoids the usual cliché " All French people were brave resistance fighters " : among these 50 people , some of them rebel , they are afraid to die , they cannot stand that dawn which is inexorably approaching . In the priest ' s pulpit , Morin ( Brasseur ) has turned completely mad , his terror knows no bounds . His attitude is in direct contrast to that of Simone who bravely enters the jail between two soldiers . She too is to be shot with the fifty men . Calef's strength is to involve the audience in his story . What would we have done ? Would we have been the bravest of the brave ? Or would we have been incapable of facing the last night , the last letters to the families ( 3 pencils for 50 men ! ) and the guns ? Calef's characters are men ( and a woman ) it's easy to identify with : they are human beings of flesh and blood , not heroes a la Rambo , but hostages with their weaknesses , their doubts and their fears which never go away . In the church , some of them suggest games , songs , nothing works . " Jericho " is a movie without real stars , but it achieves the feat of introducing lots of endearing characters : the one-legged man ( Pierre Larquey ) coming down the stairs , under the soldiers ' watchful eye , epitomizes the victim of the conquerors ' Barbary . The film begins with a famous German military march during the cast and credits but ends with " it's a long way to Tipperary " , a tribute to the courageous fighter pilots of the British Royal Airforce . Like this ? Try these . . . . " Les otages " Raymond Bernard 1938 " Hitler's madman " Douglas Sirk 1943 " Hangmen also die " Fritz Lang 1943 " Le repas des fauves " Christian-Jaque 1964 " Uncertain glory " Raoul Walsh 1944
Räder müssen rollen für den Sieg .	" Nachts . . . " is the third movie of Siomak's " fourth " career ; a career that began in his native Germany ( " Menschen am Sonntag " ) continued in France ( " Mollenard Capitaine Corsaire " ) reached peaks of film noir in America ( " the killers " ) and , back in Germany , brought more remarkable works such as " Die Ratten " or " L'Affaire Nina B . " ( made with French money ) . " Nachts " is Siodmak at his most ambitious , a complex movie which demands your undivided attention . It's probably his finest hour in his final years at a time when he was living in his former homeland , after the fall and before the wall . The world Siodmak is more than a world in ruins , a world that has lost its way and that has forgotten that it is in ruins . Helga and Axel do not understand that all they do is pointless from the very start : what's the point of finding a killer when millions of innocents are slaughtered ? Didn't they understand that their Aryan " race " is pure and that a serial killer is unthinkable ? Didn't they understand that the scapegoat is necessary for the others to go on ? First the Jews , then the gypsies , the gays , the mentally retarded and the crippled , and then a German , a " normal " Aryan , Willi Keun ? AS in " Desolation row " does " which side are you on ? " matter when you're sailing on the Titanic ? " Nachts " predates such works as " nights of the general " ( which was much inferior , in spite a much more comfortable budget ) by Litvak " Jagdzenen aus Niederbayern " by Peter Fleischman - the first scene has certainly influenced that director - and even Siodmak's own " Nina B " . " Nachts " showed that Siodmak was still a film noir past master : take the scene when Bruno ( a sensational Mario Adorf ) meets the Jewish lady in Frau Lehman's flat : it's a suspenseful scene to rival the best of Hitchcock . Axel's and Helga's desperate attempts to save an innocent was a subject Siodmak had already treated in his adaptation of William Irish ( aka Cornell Woolrich ) " Phantom Lady " . But the most extraordinary sequence is the " subjective flashback " in the forest where the killer relives what he did where the trees seem like bars of the prison of his mind . " Nachts " was Siodmak at his most pessimistic : the train bound for " glory " slowly moving into the dark night as Axel mumbles " Bruno Luedke ? what are you talking about ? This man never was " . Such an ending anticipates that of Joseph Losey's " Mr Klein " ( 1975 ) . Even if Siodmak " sweetens " his harsh final - he " saves " Helga - , the night has only begun . . . .
If you knew your geography . . .	. . . You would know that , in Chicago , there are no sailors but gangsters . That's what the mother tells her daughter who became friend with an American ! This is one of the funniest lines of a wonderful movie . There's a tight connection between " Lola " and Demy's following movie " les parapluies de Cherbourg " : - Lola is an unmarried mother , Genevieve becomes one too . Both are waiting for a lover , in a harbor . ( Nantes for Lola , Cherbourg for Genevieve ) - Marc Michel's character , Roland appears in both movies ! In love with Lola , he is rejected . In " les parapluies " , his memories come back for a very short while : a flashback displays pictures of Nantes , where Lola's story took place . And he told Genevieve's mother about his long lost love . - In " Lola " , Roland wants to marry the heroine and to become her ( not his ) son's father . In " les parapluies " , he marries Genevieve and becomes her ( not his ) son's father . - Both movies display ordinary people , whose ordinary life is shown with emphasis but not without taste , as if all this were written in verse . What's the matter if " Lola " is a " normal " movie and " les parapluies " an entirely sung one . Demy's touch makes both winners . - Both movies - and it was to continue with " les demoiselles de Rochefort " and the marvelous " Donkey Skin " - favor the scenery : the black and white shots in " Lola " are at least as unreal and as dreamlike as the vivid colors in " les parapluies " ( influenced by American musicals of the fifties ) - Both movies feature families without a father figure : the mother and the daughter I mention above , we find them back in " les parapluies . . " and even later in " les demoiselles de Rochefort " . But in this latter work , it's the mother who's an unmarried mother . " Les parapluies de Cherbourg " is praised and loved everywhere , but " Lola " ' s still crying to be seen . Like Roland , Lola will come back in another Demy's movie , made in America : " Model Shop " ( 1968 ) . Leonard Maltin says that " Demy's eye for LA is striking , but overall feel to story is ambiguous " . It's not on a par with Lola , though .
It takes a tux . .	It's a dream come true : my favourite French director , Julien Duvivier , directing American stars I've always admired . And it is a film made up of sketches , a field where Duvivier bows to no one , in his native country . He had already made " UN Carnet de Bal " and its remake " Lydia " but the American audience never knew that he would take the genre to its absolute limits in the fifties with " Sous le Ciel de Paris " and " La Fete A Henriette " ( poorly remade as " Paris when it sizzles " ) " Tales of Manhattan " deals with the whims of fate , a subject Duvivier loved during all his life . Six destinies , where Duvivier shows his sense of humor , his complete mastery of the picture , his unexpected twists . The connection between the segments is rather tenuous ( a tux ) , " Manahattan " has not yet the perfection of " Sous le Ciel de Paris " . But its eclecticism is stunning , this could be a film equivalent of the Beatles ' famous White Album . It takes us to so many places , from the slums to the bourgeois desirable mansions , from a party at the Waldorf's hotel to a poor village of black people . . . One should note that the screenplays are not by Duvivier himself , and Edward G . Robinson's segment would have been given a harsher treatment in France . Segment one or " the dear hunter " Duvivier casts his compatriot Charles Boyer as a stage actor ; This is the well-known tale of the love triangle , and the mistress is none other than the sumptuous Rita Hayworth . Duvivier gambles on the " acting " thing and he makes it a winner . His technique has something HItchcockesque here when he shows the three characters ' hands in close-up . With its reversals of situation , it looks like Shaffer / mankiewicz's " Sleuth " in miniature . Segment two or " the lion does not sleep tonight " A woman ( Rogers ) is to get married but one of her female friends advises her to have a look in her soon-to-be-hubby's pocket . She finds a " scented bill " which is not a bill at all . Enter Henry Fonda who comes to the fiancé's rescue . . . a bit Lubischesque . Revenge is a dish best eaten cold . Segment three or " It ( used to ) fit like a glove " An obscure musician ( Laughton ) becomes a genius overnight thanks to his symphony . Tonight's the night : in front of a posh audience , he conducts the symphonic orchestra till . . . The French audience will think of that sequence of " La Fin du jour " ( 1939 ) when Michel Simon collapses on stage . And it was Victor Francen , who after his death , said to us all " the show must go one " . It is Victor Francen here too and he says " continue " . It's some kind of spoof on " la Fin du Jour " and it's brilliant . Segment four : " Every dog has his day " is my favourite and Edward G . Robinson gives the most moving performance of the whole film . Old University pals throw a party at the Waldorf's . One of them has become a tramp . And there's also a man who knows him and tries to humiliate him ( George Sanders , who else ? ) . The way Robinson maintains his dignity is admirable , even the if the ending is more Capra than Duvivier . Segment five or " Cocoa milk cocktail " : essentially an interlude , it's the shortest part . But this lecture on that enemy which kills slowly ( alcohol ) by an earnest professor whose audience ( posh ladies , chic gentlemen ) become all drunk cause the hostess's husband , a joker , has poured liquor into the cocoa nut milk , is worth the price of admission . Segment six or " the lord moves in mysterious ways " After a hold up , two men try to get to Mexico , but the plane catches fire and the tux full of dough falls on a field where two black farmers think it is a Godsend . But , says the wife , have we really prayed the Lord for THAT ? This will be a memorable Christmas for all of them , which Frankenheimer might have remembered for the conclusion of his " reindeer games " . In a sweet atmosphere of Negro spirituals and angelic choruses , everybody's praying the Lord and celebrating , the tux will find its destiny too . Duvivier would continue in the film-made-up-of - sketches genre with his follow-up " flesh and fantasy " , another movie crying to be seen . Jean Tulard , the most eminent French critic of our time wrote about Duvivier : " Une Oeuvre d'une Richesse et d'Une Diversité Incroyable ! " When it came to telling a story ( or stories more like ) Duvivier was never surpassed in France .
Chabrol's triumph	Chabrol's triumph and also Stephane Audran's finest performance ; only " le festin de Babette " will give her a part as strong as this one . She plays a luminous radiant beaming schoolteacher , teaching her pupils spelling with a little help from Honore de Balzac and dance with " le menuet du Bourgeois Gentilhomme " , a Molière-Lully collaboration . She epitomizes honesty , loyalty , innocence and devotion to her work . In direct contrast to her , we have Popaul , the butcher , masterfully played by Jean Yanne ( He's never been as good as with Chabrol : please , please , do see " que la bête meure " ( The beast must die ) ) : He's obviously in love with Hélène / Audran but he realizes the gap between them . He's a crude uneducated brute , but his clumsiness is so touching you side with him . But we know from the start that won't be a happy story : the first scene , dealing with Cro-Magnon in dark caves heralds a story of blood and bestiality . Popaul is Cro-Magnon , but he's also a victim of the war they waged with his blood . Chabrol ' s camera insists on the war memorial , this inhuman piece of stone surrounded by four shells . LOOKS are more important than words between Popaul and Hélène , and as she begins to comprehend the horror of the situation , we know , that in spite of what Popaul has done , she feels for him . Chabrol excels in depicting a small village , French critics often compare him to an entomologist . " Le boucher " remains his finest work to date .
In a word : mind-boggling	This is by far my favorite Val Lewton's production . How can a film be so disturbing , so scary , without any real special effect , without any hackneyed trick and with a shoestring budget . It's impossible to watch " the seventh victim " and not to think of other films yet to come . And what films ! " Psycho " : the scene when Kim Hunter is having a shower predates that of Leigh by more than fifteen years : the ominous shadow behind the curtain , her threatening words . " Rosemary's baby " : it's quite possible Ira Levin was influenced by this film when he wrote his book . Both Polanski's movie and " the seventh victim " deal with everyday life terror , there's apparently nothing supernatural , it is a normal world where unusual details occasionally surface . Most amazing thing , all the characters are interesting , not at all the cardboard ones you can meet in 95 % of today's fantasy and horror flicks . A poet , an one-armed woman who plays the piano , a circle of respectable devil worshipers , a woman who seems to have gone nuts , because of them , or because she already had this great fascination for death ( this scene when Hunter opens her sister's bedroom door and sees the noose above a chair gives the jitters . ) I cannot find a single weak sequence in this movie . It may last only seventy minutes , its density is extraordinary : the detective's death and the unusually inventive use of the subway ; the sister's reappearance , almost zombie-like ; the shower ; the worshipers , trying to make their victim commit suicide ; the two men setting their faith in Christ and his commandments against the " what is good ? what is evil ? " of the disciples of Satan . But the last sequence is unique : having met a suicidal woman in the stairs , the sister comes into her room , we catch a glimpse of the sinister scaffold ; as the other woman is leaving for the city , she can hear a sound ( a chair ? ) , but she hardly notices it and she comes down the stairs quickly . .
Leconte est Bon once again	A trustworthy value of contemporary French cinema ( in 1996 , the French Minister for Arts and the director of the national center of the cinematography hailed him as a French worthy ambassador ) , Patrice Leconte can brag himself to rank among a handful of French filmmakers whose popularity is continual in France and abroad , especially since " Ridicule " ( 1996 ) was virtually unanimously lauded . On this site , several of his films exceeded the 1000 even 2000 votes mark . This one " la Fille Sur Le Pont " is near to the 3000 votes mark and appears to be the most well-known of Leconte's flicks abroad . A word to his devotees and they seem to be numerous : I urge them to watch " Tandem " ( 1987 ) . It is Leconte's towering achievement and his sleeper . To come back to " la Fille Sur Le Pont " , this cracker basically revolves around a young girl , Adèle ( Vanessa Paradis ) . She's only 20 years old and she got a raw deal . Apparently interviewed by an emcee on the telly , she assesses her rueful life and can't see her future . One evening , she's cracking up and is about to jump from a bridge into the river Seine . Fortunately , she's saved at the last minute by a knife-thrower , Gabor ( Daniel Auteuil ) who becomes fond of her . He hires her as the target for his show and will make her enjoy life again . From then onwards , luck smiles on them , the lead a freewheeling adventure and Gabor becomes increasingly enamored of his young protégée . " La Fille Sur Le Pont " is the movie in Leconte's filmography which heralds a series of films in which a love story is one of the staple elements of these flicks . It is perhaps the artistic success of this film which incited him to continue in this vein with the subsequent pieces of work " la Veuve De Saint Pierre " ( 2000 ) , " Félix et Lola " ( 2001 ) and at last " Rue Des Plaisirs " ( 2002 ) . In reality , Leconte had already adventured in the domain of the love story well before " la Fille Sur Le Pont " . Love stories were main threads in the nearly dreamlike " Le Mari De La Coiffeuse " ( 1990 ) and " Le Parfum d'Yvonne " ( 1994 ) and they gave brilliant results . When I read Leconte's intentions on this film , I had misgivings . The director wanted to make a work which was supposed to be a homage to the New Wave , hence the shooting of Gabor and Adèle's adventure in a black and white cinematography . Leconte had lauded François Truffaut and Jean-Luc Godard as " masters " . Ahem ! . . . There's no accounting for taste . But he kept his trademark and his movie remains accessible to everyone who likes being told a story . The liberties dear to the New Wave clique are subdued and tamed , a stabled content and form with perhaps an emphasis on the content , no amateurish side in the directing , except in the very first sequence and a scenario which encapsulates several directives including a classic but absorbing storytelling and an analysis of the two main protagonists ' persona . Leconte pulls off with gusto to create a timeless atmosphere . The first sequence comes out of the blue and sets the scene for the unique aura in which the film bathes . It is realism and fairy tale in the same package . Everything in the scenery , the costumes , the cinematography and the directing seem to be dovetailed to produce this pristine poise . An impression reinforced by a discerningly chosen music . But also , " la Fille Sur Le Pont " is a success story and Leconte is very astute at this game . He refuses a good number of constricting codes of the genre or diverts them in a neat way . For example , the viewer will have to wait the tail end to see Gabor and Adèle exchanging their first kiss . The scenarist Serge Frydman did a first-class job with an abundance of witty cues . My favorite lines are : " Knives are dangerous " " you know , everything's dangerous nowadays . . . " or " the first time I had sex , it was uncomfortable " " yes the first time you have sexual relationships it is usually uncomfortable " " no no , it was in the toilets of a gas station . It was uncomfortable " . Always on the plus side , Leconte was obviously interested with the persona of his two main characters and perhaps more Gabor than Adèle . In spite of his apparent self-confidence and his deadpan humor , he conceals a deep vulnerability and has his own weaknesses . Like Adèle , he's unsure about the future ( check the sequence when he's on the rails and a train arrives in front of him ) . He's a " Lecontian " hero par excellence . He's apparently sure of himself but hides a deep fragility . He is also admirably portrayed by Daniel Auteuil who garnered a deservedly César in 2000 . As for Vanessa Paradis who when she was 14 years old scored a big hit in France with " Joe Le Taxi " , she unveils another face of herself with unsuspected skills of actress . With a " feel-good " sentiment which suffuses the whole movie , " la Fille Sur Le Pont " is the ideal flick to restore confidence to the ones who lost it . Gabor says that " luck is a matter of life and death " but when it affects someone at a loss , it can work wonders . A wondrous movie to rank among the magnum opus in Leconte's filmography .
Déjà Vu	Once upon a time there was a land where they made movies where a good story to tell , beautiful pictures and wonderful actors were the only things that counted . Some day - must be the early sixties I can't remember - a wicked fairy came and said : " Listen to my magic spellListen carefully , listen well You old lousy directorsPrick your fingersAnd sleep for a hundred years ! " That was the way many a movie from the late forties and the fifties became sleepers , still waiting for the prince who would wake them . . . . or an IMDb reviewer : " La Foire aux chimères " by Pierre Chenal , " La Fete à Henriette " by Duvivier , " la Neige Etait Sale " by Saslavsky and many more . . " Le Pays sans Etoiles " is one of these sleepers ! To think that many Gerard Philipe fans do not even know that this movie exists . Oddly , and although he plays the main character , his name does not appear at the top of the credits , because he was relatively unknown in the world of cinema whereas he was already famous on stage . Gerard Philippe is perfectly cast as the romantic young lead of a movie which is crying to be seen . The director , George Lacombe , is not considered an " auteur " in France , but he did give an excellent thriller ( " Le Dernier Des Six " which owed a lot to Clouzot's screenplay though ) and two interesting works : " Martin Roumagnac " and " Les Musiciens du Ciel " . " Le Pays Sans Etoiles " is easily Lacombe's peak ; like " Dernier Des Six " , it ' s got a brilliant screenplay by Pierre Very . Very was excellent when it came to introducing a sense of mystery in a detective story : one remembers " L'Assassinat Du Père Noel " and " Les Disparus De Saint-Agil " both classics by Christian-Jaque . " Le Pays Sans Etoiles " ( what beautiful title ! " starless land " ) features an unusually inventive screenplay , brillantly blending present and past . Here , Lacombe ' s directing is almost in the same league as the best of Jacques Tourneur when he conjures up fear and mystery in the places he depicts : the train , the " cliff " , the old mansion , the cemeteryThe hero coming to the village of Tournepique has a deja vu sensation . It seems to him he was here in ancient times , he feels something threatening over him . He meets a schoolteacher ( Jany Holt ) who , in the village , has a bad reputation cause she played around with the first to come . She hates her mother ( the always reliable Madame Sylvie ) and her mother treats her like dirt . Simon falls in love with her and discovers there's something strange about her too : doesn't she resemble the woman of a painting of the last century ? Up comes Simon's brother ( Pierre Brasseur , at his most cynical ) . This woman of long ago used to write a diary : Aurelia was some kind of Cinderella , divested of her inheritance by her wicked uncle and her vicious cousin . The two stories are told in parallel and finally becomes one in the last scenes . It's difficult to summarize such a movie , but just one word : if you are interested in the French cinema , you should watch this . Like this ? try these . . . . . . " Portrait of Jennie " ( Dieterle , 1949 ) " The French lieutenant's woman " ( Reisz , 1981 ) " Dead Again " ( Branagh , 1991 )
French thrills	Fantasy and horror movies have never been French director's forte . But , and this is crucial , there are exceptions : George Franju's " les yeux sans visages " is among them . First of all , Boileau-Narcejac's screenplay ( a couple of years after " les diaboliques " and " vertigo " ) is first-rate , but it's fair to notice it's from a Jean Redon's novel . Then the actors are convincing to a fault : Pierre Brasseur , scary in spite of his bonhomie , acts as if he was practicing " normal " surgery . Alida Valli , his lover and his tout , is icy and terrifying : we wonder how girlies can trust her ! Her eyes stalk her prey like a snake . And then , there's Edith Scob , the surgeon's disfigured daughter , a strange doe-eyed actress , with an unsettling beauty , who's some kind of Mia Farrow's forerunner . Unlike her two protectors , she's completely innocent , a beautiful shot shows the unfortunate girl surrounded by doves . She's the only light in a very desperate and gloomy story . If you like this work , don't miss Franju's earlier movie " la tête contre les murs " .
hairdresser on fire	SPOILERS . Patrice Leconte can keep a cool head . After only one year from his last film ( the cold and dark " Monsieur Hire " ) , he made a film that is another type but it's as successful as the previous one . A little boy called Antoine discovers sensuality thanks to his hairdresser , mrs Schaeffer . He decides that when he is a grown-up , he wants to marry a hairdresser . His dream becomes a reality when he's meeting a hairdresser called Mathilde . Then , they are thrilled . . . . . . This is this happiness that the movie wants especially to show and its effects on the main characters and the making : the time and the daily life are abolished , the sceneries remain neutral . Concerning the main characters , they love themselves , feel like staying eternally in their " immobile ship " and as Metallica said in one of their songs : " nothing else matters " . Leconte also attaches importance on the hairdresser's customers : they are colourful , a bit odd and due to this they make the hairdressing salon unusual . The end is a little unexpected . You could expect to see Antoine depressed and miserable but not all ! Maybe he is lost in his happiness . All in all , a sensitive and delicate film very well performed . Note : this movie won the Louis Delluc price in 1990 equal with " le petit criminel " by Jacques Doillon .
Wes Craven's magnum opus	With " Scream " , Wes Craven who before this had left a chain of horror flicks gave to the horror genre one of its proudest kingpins and a valuable reference which gave a new lease of life to the slasher genre which thrived in the eighties . But also a film which involuntarily became an accursed one since it prompted many fragile teenagers to kill their families or friends dressed in the killer's outfit . Wes Craven exploits the indispensable ingredients pertaining to the serial killer story like a female teenager all alone in her house who is about to watch a horror flick and receives ominous phone calls or teenagers all gathered in a house watching horror flicks and they're all killed one after the other and the filmmaker follows the rules of the game while poring over them . During 110 minutes , Craven mixes the slasher movie and a studied reflection about the genre and its premises . Hence its indisputable strength . Flicks like the " Freddy " or " Friday the 13th " endless saga contributed to the fame of the genre and were based on rules that the viewer knows very well . Craven takes them again for himself to reveal the tricks of the trade and to dynamite the clichés . Thus it gives both a highly terrific and terrifying piece of work in which Craven involves the viewer at all levels . One should note down all the witty lines the film shelters and the black humor of a formidable efficiency which lacked in so called gore masterworks like John Carpenter's " Halloween " ( 1978 ) . I dig the " test " in the first sequence the killer asks to Drew Barrymore about horror flicks . Painstakingly built , full of ideas , nods or allusions to gore films which secured the popularity and the trademark of the slasher genre . Craven's film has also the ability to make us shiver and to be jubilant thanks to what has been said before and also thanks to a taut scenario in which the murders aren't only the worthwhile moments as it's often the case in many mediocre horror films . Craven also doesn't fear to delay sequences as much as he can to stretch terror and treat , notably the first one and all that happens in the big isolated house where the students party while very bad things occur near them . This is a film to cherish and to ponder about provided you have nerves of steel and if you keep in mind that it's just pure cinema . And one of the characters says : " there has to be one or several sequels to a film of this kind " . It was judicious from Craven to have included this cue for there will be two sequels . But the pernicious charm that wraps " Scream " will be absent in its two heirs .
A trick of a truck	This movie was too ahead if its time for its own good ; the political movie was trendy in the seventies in Frence but these flicks were spectacular , Manichaean , with lots of events-of-May-68 thrown in for good measure . The cops and the politicians were the villains , the young gents ( they were often students , journalists lawyers , teachers , etc ) were the heroes . Actually , " Le Petit Marcel " ( the title is deceptive , making the viewer think he's going to watch a comedy ) is Pialat's overrated " Passe Ton Bac d'Aboard " ( = take your high school diploma before ) forerunner . With one exception , this youth has no " Bac " to take . They have become rebels without a cause , they do not go to school anymore , they do odd jobs now and then . In the town where they live , nothing was made for them . Enter Marcel ( Jacques Spiesser ) : he's got nothing but an old lorry and he hopes he ' ll make enough dough to buy a garage . He , too , does casual work , being the mover for a retired teacher who leaves his old house for a public housing unit ( significantly , the teacher will not reappear again although the book he gave to Marcel plays a small part in the plot ) Marcel seems a good guy , but there are cracks in the mirror : although he seems to be part of the pack , he ' s more a witness than an player ; although he sleeps with a girl of the pack ( Isabelle Huppert ) , she's finally a pain in the neck to him ; although he seems at odd with the police , the captain fascinates him with his educated wife ( Anouk Ferjac ) , his desirable house and his billiard table . Some of his friends belong to the far right wing , they smashed his young friends's face in , but he begins to realize that his world is no longer theirs . Marcel is almost a neuter character ; he does not want to get involved in the pack's business . Jacques Spiesser was ideally cast as Marcel . Except during the last scenes , he seems to be overtaken by events . Jacques Spiesser excels in this kind of parts : remember the pacifist soldier in Boisset's " RAS " , the geographer in " La Victoire En Chantant " aka " Black and White in Colors " by Annaud . In the three movies , his evolution is stunning : a positive rebellion in the movie about the Algeria War , his character takes no longer a rebel stand in the two other movies . A war profiteer in Annaud's work , he , little by little , becomes an informer . One will never praise Yves Robert's performance enough too : he knows that Marcel lost his father several years ago and that he never overcame the pain . Marcel , unconsciously , sees the figure of a father . Robert plays a " human " captain , who , unlike his subalterns who humiliate the young man , treats him gently , friendly , kindly . . . Marcel , who is not very clever , cannot see what his game is . He is akin to Louis Malle's " Lucien Lacombe " ; like him , he tries to find a way to get out of his wretched situation . The last scene , one of the strongest of the French cinema of the seventies , makes sense . Now that he has betrayed his friends , now that he has lost his lorry , he can join his " father " ' s side without tears . Marcel is not good , he's not bad either . He's an immature person : like Malle's Lucien was fascinated by a suit and a tie , Marcel dreams of beautiful blue uniform . " Le petit Marcel " is the best political movie of the FRench seventies . With its plot where nothing ( or almost nothing ) happens , it ' s better than any Boisset'sor Cayatte ' s stuff of the era .
In cold blood	René Allio was certainly one of the most overlooked French directors . " Moi Pierre Rivière " is his towering achievement but do not miss his earlier works such as " La Vieille Dame Indigne " , based on a Brecht short story . " Moi Pierre Rivière " could be subtitled " anatomy of a murder " . It's a true story which happened in the rural Normandie in the nineteenth century but anyway , those peasants , anyone who has read Maupassant's short stories or Zola's " La Terre " already knew them . Pierre Rivière cut the throat of his mother , his brother and his sister and is waiting for his trial . In the meanwhile , he writes a manuscript where he tells the whole story . Witnesses appear too and tell the story as they've seen it . Allio's treatment is anything but derivative . Sometimes Bressonesque ( his major influence ) with his use of non-professionals actors for his peasants , and their neuter voices , with something borrowed from Truffaut's " L'Enfant Sauvage " ( 1970 ) - screenplay entirely based on historical documents - . Pierre is a complex character , whose behavior thoroughly eludes the viewer . He sees his father , a crude uneducated meek man humiliated and harassed by a shrew of a mother , who always lets him down after she's taken everything she can steal . Probably under an over-possessive mother's thumb , this woman does not want to share her husband's home . Pierre's report is stunning : the style is perfect , using a very refined French , most of the verbs in the historical past ( Passé Simple ) a tense which increases the distance between Pierre and the events he depicts . He even uses the subjunctive imperfect , a tense only an educated person can know . Pierre is an enigma to the world : how a boy who was nurtured in such a demeaning milieu can he be able to write like this ? He bought a book , some kind of mini-encyclopedia where he found subjects ( Napoleon , Indians ) which fueled his misogyny . Is he a lunatic ? Certainly not in the way the doctor thinks he is during the trial . The fact Pierre refers to Abraham and the " God told me to do that " thing are not surprising , coming from a country boy , at a time when religion verged on superstition . I think that Pierre cannot stand his father's passiveness . He needs an outlet : crucifying a frog or squashing a bird between two stones are first attempts at a murder . Hate , anger and frustration are in him and won't live him alone . One day animals are not enough : the saucy song ( which we can hear twice ) sung by the neighbor about his dad , it's this which sparks off the incident or should I say the tragedy . They are three dead bodies in the kitchen , lying in a pool of their blood . A boy is running across the country thinking " what have I done ? " and putting his trust in God , cause he gave his life in sacrifice so the others ( his father , his grandmother , his other brothers ) could survive . He still do not know whether he'll be sentenced to death when he's arrested , but he knows that he is dead anyway . This is a slow moving movie , not exactly an accessible one ; but it's a demanding one , and one that will reward you if you give it a chance .
The intruder	This is the next to last work by Murnau and , like most of his movies , it should not be missed . Using the same actors as Frank Borzage in " The River " , he tells us a story which could still happen today . The sexually repressed boy , under an over possessive dad's - looking sometimes like a patriarch from the Bible - thumb , whose wife is treated like dirt ( by her in-law ) or as a sexual object ( by the farm workers ) , is a character we can meet every day even in 2008 . In " The river " Mary Duncan warmed up Charles Farrell's body with her own body . In " city girl " she did again , metaphorically . Admirable scenes : - the scene of the breakfast ( the bread ) which segues into that one in the eating-house . - the arrival in the country house , the warm welcome of the mother and the harshness of the master . - all the scenes with the boy and the workers where he realizes he is not a man like them . Perhaps the great director was opening up in these scenes which predate other works ( Minnelli's " Tea and Sympathy " , and in France Miller's " La Meilleure Façon de Marcher " ) : Murnau was gay and felt ashamed of it . People who are allergic to silent movies , you can enjoy Murnau's films : they do not need the sound , they have everything .
From the silent era to the coming of the Nouvelle Vague . . . . .	. . . which was so hard on him , Duvivier reigned over the French cinema during 40 years . He made films in America , in England , in Italy , in Germany . Which director of the New Wavelet can say the same ? In Lille today , Duvivier's native town , there ' s no Duvivier street , no Duvivier school , no Duvivier hospital . Do they even mention his name when they teach cinema at the university ? . In Rouen , one metro station is called François TRuffaut and that director was not even born here . This is the silent version of Jules Renard's classic , seven years before the talkie featuring Harry Baur and Robert Lynen . Once again all we have to do is stand and applause . Renard's book , made of small vignettes , very short chapters , is very hard to transfer to the screen . As he would do in 1932 , Duvivier - who was also a writer - selected several scenes he particularly liked in the novel ( the hens , the little girl ) and wrote a linear screenplay . The storyline of the remake is more assured for the 1925 treatment includes a love affair between Felix and a bad gal ( not from the book ) which sometimes gets in the way . THis is minor quibble : " Poil de Carotte " is Duvivier at his best ; he ' s second to none when it comes to depicting nastiness , and Madame Lepic epitomizes nastiness . This terrifying mustached shrew surpasses the histrionic strident missus of the second version . If smile could kill , hers probably would . She looks like a man with a wig : Duvivier probably wanted to show the father's weakness , his impossibility to be a man . The young boy who portrays the miserable boy is as good as Robert Lynen . His face covered in freckles is so desperate , so touching : he is literally begging to be loved . The first time he's wanted to commit suicide , he gives up , because " it would sadden his friends " . . . . the dog and the cat . . . . The second time , those sinister lines appear on the screen , twice : the barn . . . . . the beam . . . . the rope . . . . As the precedent user , a Duvivier specialist has pointed out , there are plenty of technical innovations , probably inspired by former experiments by Abel Gance : the specter in the sky when the brat goes to the hen house ; four of five boys are working around L monsieur Lepic who realizes that his son has really got a raw deal ; the merry-go-round and Poil de Carotte's head . The fair , Duvivier already knew how to use it to startling effects : he would use it again , in an even more outstanding way in his 1945 masterpiece " Panique " . Too bad Duvivier did not treat the harrowing chapter " La Tempête des Feuilles " ( = the leaves storm ) . It would have fit a silent movie like a glove . Duvivier's legendary pessimism is present , although there's some kind of happy end ( Now there are two of us ) , the same as in the remake . A happy end when you know your mother will never give you any love . . . like Jules Renard's own mother . It was a true story . Like this ? try these : Luis Bunuel : " los Olvidados " ( 1950 ) Luigi Comencini : " incompreso " ( 1967 ) Maurice Pialat : " L'Enfance Nue " ( 1968 ) Dardenne bros : " Rosetta " ( 1999 )
Mouchette got a raw deal	Sixteen years after having successfully exploited Georges Bernanos ' universe for his " Journal d'Un Curé De Campagne " ( 1951 ) , Robert Bresson appropriates once again another book by the French writer : " Mouchette " for a very personal , stylish rendering and a canonical film about stolen childhood . The filmmaker always supported that he'd prefer a film to be felt rather than to be understood . Needless to say we leave the projection with a big emotion inside us and we also feel helpless about Mouchette ' terrible life . According to Bresson , Mouchette's tragic fate enabled him to put forward " misery , cruelty . They're everywhere : wars , tortures , murders " . The film starts with Arsène's and the gamekeeper's eyes staring at quails and partridges that desperately try to free themselves from snares . This harrowing introduction sequence sets the scene for what follows after wards . How not to think of a metaphor for Mouchette's life that offers her no horizon and no hope ? This teenage girl is all alone and in spite of her young age , she has to take care of her sick mother , her alcoholic father and her baby brother . She goes to school but feels rejected by her female fellow students , notably when school's over , they stone her . It's the same thing every day and Mouchette is trapped in her loneliness . That's why the sequence at the fair comes as a sort of relief for her . The scene at the bumper cars provides her momentary solace and joy . Then , the key sequence with Arsène will make her open her eyes about what she really wants . In spite of her poverty and solitude , Mouchette needs to love but where to find it in a hostile world ? Mouchette strongly belongs to the Bressonian world . She's an outcast and she can't integrate herself to her surrounding . Once again , Bresson underscores the opposition between a pure , subjective person and an objective , hostile world in a sparse , minimal directing with a supremacy granted to images and sounds and the evident symbols they convey . An eloquent example would be when the little girl is all alone in the country and can hear the sound of guns and can see rabbits running or dying . She hasn't got a friend or even one member of her family to talk to . When she wants to tell her mother what Arsène did to her , she dies . Fate dogs her . There's no room for the weak and there's one last exit left . . . Bresson's austere , intensely visual making fits the story and its themes like a glove and if you don't feel anything during the last sequence , you have a heart of stone .
Tim Burton's best film ?	With this film , Tim Burton planned to tell us the life of the worst director in the world ever . His name was Ed Wood and he lived in the fifties . We learn that Ed Wood loves wearing angora pullovers and women clothes . He also loves being dressed up as a woman and above all he's fond of the actor Bela Lugosi and his horror films . When Wood's meeting him for the first time , he's so elated that he wants him to play on his poor films . On the other hand , Burton show us the way Ed Wood used to make his films and we can say that they were very eccentric : for example a wholesaler in meat accepted to produce one of his films " Bride of the Monster " and the special effects are ridiculous : in the worst film ever made " Plan 9 from outer space " ( even the title doesn't mean anything ) , flying saucer are made of cardboard . Then , in the last years of his life , Wood was living in poverty , took a lot of alcohol and finally died in 1978 at the age of 54 years old . This film is very successful because Burton attempts to reconstruct Ed Wood's life as precisely as possible and Johnny Depp is very convincing in the role of this fascinating man so Burton succeeded in his plan . Of course Wood's films are the worst films ever made but he thought that he was making masterpieces just like Orson Welles ! I found it both funny and extraordinary . But the film is worth being watched thanks also to Martin Landau who is very good in his Bela Lugosi role ; thanks to his performance , he won an oscar for the supporting role . The other actors like Bill Murray or Patricia Arquette are very well used Moreover , the film alternates comic moments , especially when Wood is making his films , and tragic moments such as Lugosi's funerals . At last not only made Burton a masterpiece but he also paid a tribute to Z films .
Outliving your child . . .	. . . . is the worst thing that can happen to you . That's what Nanni Moretti tells in a story full of restrained emotion and a great sense of propriety . The perfect family : a shrink , his attractive wife who's got a good job , two children with good prospects . Some cracks in the mirror , hardly noticeable : the psychiatrist does not seem to care that much for his patients , his problems and theirs are worlds apart ( best example : the patient who just leaned he'd developed lung cancer ) ; he is proud of his son but we feel that he asks too much from him : in a sport game you MUST win . When the tragedy occurs , the father realizes that all that has not been said or done will never be . Maybe he shouldn't have treated his son that way . Maybe he should have kept him with him when he was jogging . There's a scene which many people will find unbearable : the moment when they place the boy in the coffin ; nothing is spared the viewer and the sound of the nails finds only an equivalent in a similar scene in Maurice Pialat's " La Gueule Ouverte " ( 1972 ) . The relationship with the patients dramatically changes too . Now what was finally a spoiled big child knows what it is to be in pain . If they are keen on meeting the boy's first love , it is that both the father and the mother want to cling to something in the present which can make their son come back for a short while . It's revealing that the three members ' first moment of " happiness " happens in the car , where the girl and her supposed boyfriend make up for the awful loss . This is a deeply moving movie , but for people with a strong heart .
A pearl on Guitry's crown	Do you know who the granddaddy of the Monty Python was ? Sacha Guitry is a serious contender . " Les Perles de la couronne " was his biggest commercial success and it's still much fun to watch it today . It was the first of the " historical " movies of the artist : " Si Paris m'était Conté " " Si Versailles m'était Conté " " En Remontant les Champs-Elysées " were to follow . Guitry was French wit at its best . Only Henri Jeanson could write as good as he could . His is not a vitriolic style like his peer Jeanson , but a sense of humor completely mad which verges on absurd . Tell me who could put in a two-hour movie FRancois Premier and Henry the Eighth , Mary Stuart and Catherine de Medicis , Henry the Fourth and the popes , Napoleon and JOsephine , Napoleon the Third and Eugenie de Montijo , the queen of Abyssinia and Elizabeth the First , Madame du Barry and the Sans-Culottes , a cuckold and a courtesan , three thieves , one of them being good at maths and logic , Virgin Mary in the flesh ( two divine interventions ) , and more and more and more . . . . ? ? ? Madness is everywhere and critic George Sadoul who would dismiss Guitry as " filmed stage production maker " and " as a man contemplating his navel , if he were here today , should see his objections swept away in a deluge of joyful film making , which only the snobs will not hear and only the deaf and the blind will not acknowledge . The extraordinary quality of the screenplay - which is very complicated , Guitry really invented here the Film à Tiroirs - is one of simple happiness . You should see Ann Boleyn ( sic ) teach King François's son the indicative present of the verb " to have " ( and the obsolete form " thou hast " ) . " I need an English teacher too , the king says , would you be my mistress ? " . This is a film that should be watched in French with English subtitles to enjoy the word games the puns and the gags which show at every minute . About King Henry the Eighth : " He protested , he protested , he protested so much that he became a Protestant ! " . The film is marvelously constructed ; Sheherazade could not do better even if she tried her best : Once there was a pope who wanted to get rid of his dear niece Catherine's gallant . He had two invaluable pearls so he asked the young man for five more pearls which he would find around the world : around the world in eighty days or more . The Queen of Abyssinia sequence alone is worth the price of admission . Arletty , with soot or paint smeared all over her face , can only speak Abyssinian ! So it takes three interprets ( English , Italian , French ) to translate the sovereign's mumbo jumbo ! When the lad came back , the seven pearls were given as a wedding present to Catherine de Medicis . Four pearls , through the years , were preserved , but three of them were stolen . Guitry goes backwards and forwards between the present and the past , with absolute virtuosity . And he even manages to make a " poetic " ending : the last pearl gets back to where it once belonged in a way . . . Vive Sacha Guitry !
Exile on main street .	Prologue : let's put it straight . Betsy Blair is miscast . Is this because she played Borgnine's so called ugly girl in the Oscar-winning " Marty " ( 1955 ) ? Perhaps so , but her beaming face , her luminous smile , her intense longing for happiness are anything but unattractive . She's not Ava Gardner , by a long shot , but she easily outshines her would be handsome lover . Prologue 2 : Is it possible , considering the high rating of " calle mayor " , that nobody - Spanish users , get a life ! It's your culture ! - felt like writing about this unfairly overlooked gem ? " Calle Mayor " ( Grand Rue , Hauptstrasse , Main Street ) is the place where , in a provincial town , people meet , talk and wait . All a woman has to do , Tonia says , is wait wait wait , behind her window , at the ball , or on " calle mayor " . Isobel has been waiting for eighteen years for a man , because , in the fifties in Spain ( and in Europa as well ) , the only way a woman had is marriage . Or she would become a wallflower and a spinster . " Calle mayor " is a trap : the omnipresence of religion can be felt here there and everywhere , with the church bells marking out the hours in a town that has stood still for years , with the nuns pacing up and down the street , asking for a few pesetas more for their good works . A group of men , not so young anymore , is searching for something to do . A good joke would be nice to kill time : so they ask one of them to pretend he's in love with Isobel , the thirty-five year old woman-at the time , it was much too late ! - . Isobel begins to live in a dream , and the buck cannot bring himself to tell her the truth ( out of pity ? he does not know himself ) . . I say it again , Betsy Blair , although excellent was not the right choice : first she's not Spanish , and mainly she ' s not ugly . So it does not always work well , because , if we were in the man's shoes , we would fall in love head over heals with her . But this must not prevent you from watching Juan Bardem's sensitive work : his depiction of the provincialism is absorbing , the sad landscapes on the edge of town or this little railway station where the tragedy is resolved are masterfully filmed . Juan Bardem was a committed artist . He was arrested before he finished " Calle Mayor " and later he produced Bunuel's masterpiece " Viridiana " . It's really too bad that , now that Spanish cinema triumphs again with Amenabar , Bardem's name should be virtually forgotten .
Every Beatles fan should own this !	Four DVD and it features all that made the Beatles the only historical force in the world of rock . It does not pass over in silence the less glorious moments ( for example the Philippine episode or the doomed let it be sessions ) . Some will complain because Lennon's comments had not the " Threetles " ' hindsight , but was there another way to deal with that ? The fifth DVD is less interesting but it's a bonus so why complain ? Its the equivalent of the Anthologies 1 , 2 and 3 released on CDs in 1995-6 All the important groups and solo artists should have an anthology like this one . It goes without saying that only the greatest ones deserve it !
shoestring budget , great results .	No stars , hardly 80 minutes , black and white , special effects kept to the minimum : and however , one of the most striking sci-fi movie you can think of . Don Siegel would make some of the modern directors blush , these directors who cannot do anything if there's not a ton of make-up and special effects to help them . An allegory , this story can be interpreted in different ways : some saw totalitarian system , and considering the era ( the fifties , when cold war was at his heights ) , they may be right . Fear does not stem from monsters or stuff like that , but from friendly faces that suddenly turn threatening . A kiss can scare you to death . It's the same world , but where smiles hide something definitely spooky . And Don Segel does not even allow himself a happy end . Perhaps the policemen at the end can do something , but perhaps it's too late , and anyway , are they really who they seemto be ? Remakes were made , with stars , with color , with enhanced special effects . No one comes close to the pristine 1956 version .
Parker's peak , Rourke's finest performance .	I do not go much for that Parker kind of stuff ( " Midnight express " , albeit technically breathtaking was a little racist , " Shoot the moon " was a big bore , and you've got to be into Pink Floyd to appreciate such a work as " the wall " ) " Angel Heart " is a different matter , because it deals with the horror and fantasy genre . Against all odds , for someone who had never tackled this difficult genre , Parker succeeded magnificently . The screenplay is first-rate , with a strong story , with an ending you'll never guess ( and I will not reveal it of course ! ) Including drugs , voodoo , sabbath , intense love scenes , featuring a wonderful cast : Rourke , who had never been better ( and never would ) and a frighteningly deadpan DeNiro cast as Louis Cipher , this movie takes us along in a meandering , labyrinthine investigation in which private detective Rourke will find so dreadful things he won't escape unharmed . The supporting cast is excellent : Charlotte Rampling stays only a few minutes on the screen , and yet , we remember her and her tea . The same goes for the junkie doctor . I'd tone it for one thing : the elevator scene might have been borrowed from an old French movie , " Huis clos " , directed by Jacqueline Audry , from Jean-Paul Sartre's play ( 1956 ) .
the first duty of life is to live	If you feel a deep interest in John Frankenheimer and set up a DVD collection , you need three indispensable works from this versatile filmmaker dating from his decade glory : the sixties . They are " the Mandchurian Candidate " ( 1962 ) the template for the political film based on suspicion and conspiracy . " Seconds " ( 1966 ) , the film in which Frankenheimer's obsessions and camera work reached an incredible peak . It could also be the granddaddy of the meandering " Abre Los Ojos " ( 1997 ) made by Alejandro Amenabar . And at last this " Birdman of Alcatraz " . It was the film that put its creator on the map back in the sixties and it's arguably the first treasure in his filmography . Robert Stroud is a very impulsive man and this serious drawback led him to commit several murders . After having been sentenced to life imprisonment and jailed in harsh conditions , he rescues a small sparrow from the storm and raises it until he can fly . From this watershed event , his life is going to take another grand dimension . A boundless passion for ornithology makes him famous all over the world . But during his prison sentence , he's transfered to the Alcatraz prison and this change stops him from going on in his research and his knowledge related to birds . The adaptation of a book relating the life of the real Robert Stroud was a project close to Frankenheimer's heart and while discovering this very long film ( about two hours and a half ) , one recognizes his hallmark in the directing with mind-boggling angles and striking camera movements . The director also plays a lot with the lighting and the scenery of the prison and notably Stroud's cell . Some shots showcase Burt Lancaster behind the bars with their shadows reflected on his face . A neat metaphor to make the audience understand that he can't escape from the scenery that surrounds him but also from the ruthless laws of justice . The scenario also spans what made Frankenheimer a kingpin in American cinema . His set of themes revolve around the alienation of the individual in the modern world , his inability to adapt to it and the rules , constraints of society which dwarf him . At the outset , Stroud is an outcast and can't conform to the rules and laws which govern the USA . But the discovery of this wounded sparrow will make him reconcile with life . His thirst for knowledge , his willful persona for developing and deepening his knowledge in ornithology are so potent that one virtually forgets the restrained , cramped space he lives in . His cell is fraught with birds singing , cages galore test tubes for his experiences and learning books . Frankenheimer achieves the feat to make this paradox endure and so to move the audience : to film a nearly fulfilled life in a tiny space and to turn a nearly bestial human being in a respectable man . That's the victory of the individual on a repressive system . So unlike the two Frankenheimer pieces of work I quoted in my first paragraph which spread ed an unchanging pessimistic whiff , especially " Seconds " , " Birdman of Alcatraz " is bestowed with an upbeat , optimistic feel . And I won't come back on Burt Lancaster's imposing , subdued performance which has so much been rightly lauded . One word about Robert Stroud's mother : she may be a distant cousin of Raymond Shaw's in " the Mandchurian Candidate " for she is against the marriage of her son . Whenever this film is evoked , the controversy about the real Robert Stroud comes back . They always tell he wasn't this brainy , sensitive man described in Frankenheimer's film but it doesn't stop you from watching one of the most momentous films in the filmmaker's canon and probably his most harrowing one . NB : the real Robert Stroud was never allowed to watch the film .
The feast of life	This movie came aside as a shock in the eighties . Far from trends , that is to say in the heart of sincere creativity , Babettes gaestebud stands as one of the finest movies of its time . Stephane Audran , the wonderful actress of her ex-husband Claude Chabrol's greatest achievements ( le boucher , la rupture , les noces rouges , all unqualified musts for movie buffs ) gave a lifetime performance . To see her prepare with love and affection her meal is a feast for the eyes . All the people who saw this masterpiece actually tasted , ate Babette's culinary triumph . But the most moving part of the story is its conclusion : Babette was a great French chef , she was famous , now she found a new homeland but her heyday is behind her and she won't never be allowed to come back to her dear France . So the two old sisters do comfort her : In heaven , there will be huge kitchens where she cooks for eternity . While sharing her fortune with her new friends , Babette changed their life , she gave them pleasure and a magic evening they would remember forever . In this simple but extraordinary screenplay , human warmth is everywhere , and I wish everybody a Babette's feast , would it be only for one starry night . . .
Last but not least .	This is Lang's final movie in America . He was to make another two-part movie in Germany but the latter can easily be dismissed compare to'beyond a reasonable doubt " . Prologue : an execution scene , filmed with an absolute intelligence : instead of focusing on the condemned person , the camera searches those who watch a human being die : priest , wardens , executioner , journalists and among them the hero ( Dana Andrews ) . The black and white cinematography is austere , unspectacular , and it will remains so during the whole projection . The hero's soon-to-be father-in-law , who attended the execution too , wants to demonstrate the absurdity of death penalty . He asks Andrews to play the wrong man , guilty of murder ; he would bring the proofs or evidences of his innocence just before his execution . To reveal more would make me a spoiler . Suffice to say the suspense is constant , the plot unlikely ( Hitchcock's screenplays were too ) but fascinating . In France , this movie is praised by the unanimous critics as a peak of the film noir . Give it a chance , it deserves it !
take the time to relax yourself a little with this little pearl	In 1999 Sofia Coppola made a breakthrough in the landscape of North-American cinema with " the Virgin Suicides " in which she walled up 5 lovely female teenagers in silence due to their severe parents and notably their mother . 4 years later , Francis Ford's daughter moves to Tokyo in Japan but keeps the theme of loneliness to give it to her two lost main characters as a means to assess their lives . So , Tokyo constitutes the backdrop for this bitter story . It's a city brimming with lights and people and from a Western standpoint , one often imagines the image of an uptight city . Sofia Coppola rather showcases us a laid-back , carefree vision in which the modernism of the city symbolized by a highly advanced technology and tall buildings is next to a preservation of old traditions and customs . Japan has a strong power of fascination on Western society and I've heard several times some of my peers that they would love to go there . If their dreams come true one day , it is highly likely that they will feel puzzled on the first days of their stay , just like Bob Harris ( Bill Murray ) and Charlotte ( Scarlett Johansson ) . The former is a prestigious , seasoned actor who came to Tokyo to pocket a few millions of dollars for a whiskey brand while the latter is a fresh philosophy graduate from Yale who hurriedly married a young photographer . Both are somewhat jettisoned by their native close relatives . Both wind up in a four-star hotel amid a country with a culture and a language they don't understand and both are sleepless due to jet lag and in prey to a deep inner turmoil . Nothing at first lets suggest the success of this May-to-December relation but each of them found a soul mate to provide them solace and relief . Charlotte doesn't know what to do with her life but perceives Bob as a solid rock while Bob who is at wits ' end considers Charlotte as a reminder of his youth . From the arrival of the two heroes in the chic hotel to their first moments together to their exploration of the city through the mob , colorful places and with their mutual support , Sofia Coppola reused a formula which proved its worth in her precedent work and here it shines again to give astounding results . Everything in her directing breathes delicacy , fragility and she favors a low-key cinematographic language . So it entails a sort of complicity with her two leads . A good pack of her sequences rings thoroughly true like for example when Charlotte rings her mother to tell her her first day in Tokyo . Then , the fax and the telephone are the sole means of communication with their native country for her two heroes and lets the audience suggest the state of their own relationships , especially with Bob whose private life and particularly his marriage goes unravel . Looks , gestures have a big intensity while the suggested has a meaty part in the dialogs . To make the dish more appealing , the female filmmaker had also recourse to a discreet humor like when Bob tries to follow the Japanese director's instructions through the interpreter . Sofia Coppola was right not to steer her film towards a well-worn master plan which would have seen the two characters almost at once in each other's arms . Actually , I must admit that I didn't think of this perspective during the major part of the film . It's much more novel to see two human beings finding their bearings in the throes of a whirlpool shrouding a noisy city and a seemingly indecipherable culture that they timidly tame . The evocative original soundtrack is in perfect adequacy with the images and was discerningly chosen . The lyrics of " More Than This " by Roxy Music could apply to Bob ( you have to see his performance on a karaoke ) and Charlotte . Specialists of noise such as " My Bloody Valentine " and " the Jesus and Mary Chain " are a perfect musical illustration of the urban chaos in which the two characters happily wrestle . This is also Bill Murray's most ground-breaking role since " Groundhog Day " ( 1993 ) . Like in this ingenious comedy , he acts a cynical man who eventually transmits joy and happiness to the ones he meets . Here his deadpan humor and his sense of restraint could justify the screening of the film . Beside him , Scarlett Johansson epitomizes grace and fragility . This trip to Tokyo was bracing for them and also for the viewer . This prizewinning indie remains etched on his or her memory and this is one to ponder .
Happiness is a misfortune you cannot see .	" La foire aux chimères " is a jewel , a sparkling diamond . It would deserve one hundred comments , and that would not be enough . Pierre Chenal was a film noir director who made moderately successful movies before the war : " l'alibi " which featured Von Stroheim too and his first version of " the postman always rings twice " , " le dernier tournant ( 1939 ) . But the 1946 work is much superior , being at once a film noir , a baroque melodrama and a fairy tale . Frank , a disfigured man ( Von Stroheim ) meets at a fair a beautiful blind long-haired blonde Jeanne ( Madeleine Sologne ) who is a knives thrower's partner ; this man , Robert , has a lover , Clara . Jeanne marries the ugly man , undergoes an operation and recovers sight . But , as says Marilou , Frank's housekeeper a proverb says " happiness is a misfortune you cannot see " . There are at least ten ( and maybe more ) memorable sequences ; each one is actually a work of art . Even if the movie is close to the realisme poetique dear to Carné , Chenal transcends it and makes a movie which verges on fantastic : when Jeanne appears for the first time at the fair ( la foire aux chimères = the dreams fair ) , she looks like a fairy , or an angel , the angel she plays in the small circus where Frank is the only spectator . The baroque house where Von Stroheim hides his beloved wife is a splendor . It's also a trompe l'oeil . The screenplay combines harshness and elegance , and works wonders : when Jeanne awakes after the operation , she pretends she cannot see because she has seen her husband's frightening face . It's only when she looks at herself in a mirror and bursts into tears that we get the picture . It might be the dark side of Cocteau's contemporary " Beauty and the Beast " . Stroheim outdoes himself and gives one of his greatest performances which compares more than favorably to that of Max Von Mayerling in " Sunset Boulevard " - who was yet to come in 1946 ! - . His character will meet the wickedness of the human race ( the flies in his mashed potatoes in the canteen , the gibes when he dances with his wife at the ball ) He will become a counterfeiter to spoil his Jeanne . But everything is illusion : " everything is illusion in this house , the paintings , the furniture , your love for me ! " he screams when he discovers his wife's secret . Chenal's camera goes crazy during the stunning last minutes : a distraught Stoheim rushes in the streets to get to his enemy's house , and it leads to a double ending ( both sad and happy ) that will haunt you long afterward . Chenal uses slopings with absolute skillOne should also mention the extraordinary use of the Pont Mirabeau où coule la Seine ( as poet Appolinaire wrote ) . " La foire aux chimères " had remained a sleeper for about forty years when it was praised to the skies during the eighties ; but too many people who like French cinema do not even know its existence . Yes , there was a cinema before the nouvelle vague .
So little time to love , so much time to die .	" Ballada o soldate " has one of the most poignant sequences of all war movies : when the mother holds only for a few minutes , her dear boy in her arms , it's impossible to hold back your tears . I saw the movie for the first time thirty years ago and I have never forgotten it . Far from politics , " ballada o soldate " is an universal poem , enhanced by a magnificent grandiose score , which enhances the simple beauty of the pictures , climaxing on a symphony for the finale . Aliocha's furlough is so short ( 48 hours ) and it's such a long way to his dear home . His journey becomes an odyssey , but , unlike Ulysses , his happiness will be short-lived . He and the girl form one of the most touching , lovable and innocent couple you will see on a screen . Their simple joys , particularly when they share the soldier's food , or when they meet again in the desert station , are the ones which make a life worthwhile , even in the hell which surrounds them . Sometimes recalling Sirk's " a time to love and a time to die " ( 1958 ) from Erich Maria Remarque , the great German pacifist writer , with which it shares the same disgust of war ( " I wanted to film a subject which could condemn war " , the director said ) , " ballada o soldato " is one of these rare movies that will reward you each time you watch it .
when in Rome	When in Rome , do as Romans do . When you've gotten nothing to lose , when you're so broke you couldn't even buy a crust of bread , all that's left for you is the amphitheatre . There , a lot of rich and wealthy people will relish , watching you sweat , struggle and suffer . Horace McCoy's novel was not cheapened , its spirit remains intact . Who cares if they added some new characters such as Alice ( Susannah York's best performance ) ? Jane Fonda , in the role of a lifetime , is brilliant , harsh but brittle , fighting but knowing from the start that , whatever fate has in store for her , it's a fool bargain . In this dark movie , the sun never shines on the poor who go round and round in circles : the only sun they get in this terrifying world is the glittering mirror bowl in the dancing . Sydney Pollack was never to recapture such an intensity : a recent work like " the firm " , what a let-down !
The final hole was a manhole .	Immediate background : Jacques Becker was dying when he filmed " le trou , and he made it his legacy ; it's the tragedy of man caught on the web of life - an admirable metaphor shows two wardens feeding a spider in the undergrounds with a fly - , and anyway unable to escape from the final death . The first thing to bear is mind is that , calling " le trou " a " prison movie " would be an insult . Although adapted from a Jose Giovanni's book - Giovanni had been himself in jail for some time and his depictions are as close to reality as can be - , Becker masterfully transcends his subject and gives something definitely new . Some said it was the final link between " la nouvelle vague " and what the highbrows pejoratively - and thoroughly unfairly - call " cinema de qualité " but Becker had predated that overrated new wave by almost ten years : " rendez-vous de juillet " had already almost everything the young Turks would bring later . First shock is the use of the wide screen , the cinemascope , which Becker had never experimented before ; and he achieved the impossible : using this device for a story which takes place , either in the four walls of a jail , or in the undergrounds and the sewers . The only picture of the outside is seen when the two inmates open a manhole . And the second one is the sound : there's no music at all , except for the final cast and credits - saving the cast and credits for the end was very rare in the contemporary French cinema - But the soundtrack resembles some kind of musique concrete with its relentless thumps , the whispers and the screams inside the cell , the creaking of the doors , the waters in the sewer ; and the final cacophony - which is not unlike the one which Manliewicz used in " suddenly last Summer " the year before - packs a real wallop . Another Becker's tour de force is his description of the prison life : he avoids all the clichés that mar so many " prison movies " ( the overpraised " Whatsisname redemption " is no exception ) : here , the wardens are , most of the time , kind and friendly , the relationships with the inmates remain polite , maybe sometimes too much : particularly those between the young man ( Marc Michel ) and the head warden are almost paternalistic . Another Becker's permanent feature comes back to the fore in " le trou " : friendship , solidarity , which was already present in " rendez-vous de juillet " and " touchez pas au grisbi " . Here it's pure manly friendship and it seems that a certain misogyny is infiltrating Becker's world : during the 2 hours + running time of the movie , we only see one young girl ( Catherine Spaak ) behind a grille , for a very short while . The only positive woman whom we ' ll never see is ( naturally ) one of the five inmates ' s ( Michel Constantin ) mother ( " I almost killed her when I was sent to jail so I do not want to take a chance and try to escape " ) SPOILER : But even this world where five inmates share everything , where their friendship is " more than I ' ve ever had " ( Marc Michel's character ) is collapsing ; the first cracks were already here in " rendez-vous de juillet " when some of the young students were giving up on their plans , to the main hero's ( Daniel Gelin ) disappointment . But " touchez pas au grisbi " took friendship over everything including money . " Le trou " reveals the true nature of man , even if the informer seems completely desperate at the end of the movie . The mammoth task they did , the hole ' ( le trou ) is nothing but a cul-de - sac and it epitomizes , in a Hustonian way - we're closer to Huston than to Godard , fortunately , the vanity of everything man can do to escape from his fate , and in the case of Becker , to escape from death . END OF SPOILERHad Becker ended his career with his three precedent movies ( Ali-Baba , Arsène Lupin , Montparnasse 19 ) , his former masterpieces ( Casque d'or , Goupi Main Rouges , rendez-vous de juillet ) , could have been tarnished by association . But " un trou " , his final masterpiece stands in little danger of bringing this about .
long live Clint Eastwood !	Hardly one year after the shady " Mystic River " ( 2003 ) , " grandad " Clint Eastwood changes mood and perseveres with " Million Dollar Baby " ( 2004 ) , an unusual film about women's boxing which presents none sign of quieting down from the former cowboy and " dirty Harry " . He once said about his movies that they had to be before all : entertaining and compelling . Given the commercial and critical enthusiasm of his work , he well fulfilled his pledges . On the paper , " Million Dollar Baby " nearly looks like any success story , a genre that American cinema has a liking for . Maggie Fitzerald ( Hilary Swank ) is a 31 year-old woman who works as a waitress in a restaurant . Perfectly aware that her life isn't much worth , she only sees boxing to find a way in life . With the help of an old coach Frankie Dunn ( Clint Eastwood ) and after weeks of intense training , she knows a meteoric rise with fame and glory under her belt . But Clint Eastwood is a too demanding author to content himself to shot this kind of story and is ready to go beyond it to get more interested in the relationship between Maggie and his character Frankie . As a matter of fact , " Million Dollar Baby " diverts codes of the boxing world and success story to develop a touching friendship story between two opposite characters that will peak in the last wrenching third of the film . One the one hand , Maggie Fitzerald , ready to do anything to become the best woman boxing . She sees in Frankie Dunn , the perfect coach and eventually a father figure to enable her to reinforce her trust in herself . On the other hand , Frankie Dunn , an irascible old man whose life has especially been a series of disappointments and who tries to find a hope in redemption ( I think the somewhat dreary scenery of the gymnasium reflects well his temper ) . But in reality , he hides a golden heart and perceives Maggie as the daughter he hasn't had but would have liked to . To tell this absorbing story of an unlikely friendship , Eastwood uses pure film-making basics : a straight-forward narrative line , lovable characters and a calm directing without exaggerations . The whole is tinged with a huge tenderness and a humor of quality to which it is impossible to resist . And just like in " Unforgiven " ( 1992 ) , to hear a few guitar notes is better than a whole classical music orchestra . A new variation of the American dream , a praise to courage and perseverance , a just description of the boxing world , a poignant father-daughter relationship . " Million Dollar Baby " combines all these things . With this monument of emotion , Clint Eastwood is really at the peak of his art . It probably won't be his last movie but one thing is sure : by getting old , he improves and currently shots better than ever . It's simple , genuine and moving cinema at its best and no wonder it seduced the jury at the Oscars ceremony earlier this year by awarding it 4 Oscars including best actress ( Hilary Swank ) and best director ( Clint Eastwood ) .
French beauty at its best	Jacques Demy is a French maker who is famous for his musicals such as " les parapluies de Cherbourg " or " les demoiselles de Rochefort " . For this movie , he chose to adapt a fairy tale written by Charles Perrault during the seventeenth century and he wisely chose . This movie is a real treat , an absolute enchantment and rare are the movies that succeed in recreating the wonderful atmosphere of fairy tales . Everything , here , reaches a level of perfection rarely reached : sceneries and costumes are marvellous , especially the rooms of the first castle that you see at the beginning of the movie . Moreover , a part of it was made at Chambord . Then , the music is really gorgeous and the songs ravishing . I also noticed that Demy introduced a contemporary humor which contains numerous anachronisms . For example , near the end of the film , Jean Marais appears in a helicopter ! However , the story takes place in the seventeenth century . How strange it is . . . Don't forget , a performance of quality . Catherine Deneuve is an ideal and delicate princess but Jean Marais is probably the best actor in the movie . He's very convincing in his role of tormented and jaded king . Besides , it was his last role for the cinema . After that , he's given over to painting and sculpture . Even if certain special effects are a little kitsch , the movie is impregnated with a lot of poetry . So , at the end , a movie that seduces the eyesight and the hearing and this is one of Demy's masterpieces .
You're naive , Lady Margaret !	" Waterloo Bridge " is one of my ten favorite melodramas , in the same league as " imitation of life " , " magnificent obsession " ( 2 versions each ) or " to each his own " . I'd always thought that " That Lady Hamilton " was Leigh's third best performance ( after " GWTW " and " a streetcar named desire " ) but I've got to make amends : After watching Le Roy's nugget for the third or fourth time yesterday , I think this is one of the pearls on the crown of Mrs Leigh's too small filmography . " Waterloo bridge " is close to perfection , so beautiful it can grab even people who do not care much for melodramas . The cinematography is dazzling , stunning : I will only mention this scene when the two lovers arrive in Cronin's desirable mansion , it looks like a fairy tale . There are so many unforgettable scenes in " Waterloo bridge " it's impossible to talk about all of them : " The Farewell Waltz " , when they snuff a candle each time the dancers go round the dance hall , is one of the most romantic scene you have ever watched . The ball , in the manor , where Mara looks a bit like Cinderella , with her ugly " sisters " exchanging gossips behind her back . The search , in all the low dives of London town , and Roy beginning to understand . . . All the cast is incredibly good : Vivien Leigh had everything going for her : acting genius , beauty , charm ; Robert Taylor is ideally cast as the young dashing officer every girl dreams of . The supporting actresses are up to scratch too : Madame Oupenskaya we have seen in Frank Borzage ' s works ( " the mortal storm " ) is extraordinary as the ruthless ballet mistress ; Virginia Fields portrays a girl who sacrifices her own life for her friend's happiness ; that's what friends are for : she shows compassion and emotion ; we feel for her Kitty as much as we do for Mara , it speaks volumes about this actress's talent . Lucille Watson is equally impressive as Lady Margaret , the aristocratic lady with a big heart . One should not forget the use of music either : the three pieces which are heard during the movie always come at the right moment : " Auld Lang Syne " ( the farewell waltz ) which really belongs here , " Swan Lake " and " Let me call you sweetheart " . Although completely different , " Waterloo Bridge " is as strong as Le Roy's earlier works " I'm a fugitive from a chain gang " or " they won't forget " .
my heart will go on . . .	One of the monuments of the cinema which won 11 Oscars in Hollywood in 1998 , a huge success ( well deserved ) all over the world . The revelation of two actors until then virtually unknown . This is James Cameron ' masterpiece . He chose to relate the tragedy of the Titanic that took place on the 12th of April 1912 , through the intermediary of a love story lived between a wealthy and pretty young woman ( Kate Winslet ) and a modest painter ( Léonardo Dicaprio ) . Cameron succeeds in making it fascinating in the first part of the movie . The love between " Jack " and " Rose " is so strong that can hardly believe the Titanic will bump into an iceberg and will sink . It's also together with a model bravery that the two lovers will try to escape the ship's sinking ( although historically accurate ) . Léonardo DiCaprio and Kate Winslet will stay among the famous mythical couples in the cinema's history . It's obvious that they are between the hands of a conscientious and carefully organized film-maker . James Cameron doesn't leave anything high and dry . He adopted a sustained rhythm not spoiled by the enormous means that he's got . It's useless to say that he masters them perfectly thanks to an important budget . Not only has this budget enabled a meticulous reconstruction of the ship but it has also enabled a reconstruction from the traditional life in 1912 with its contrasts , its oppositions . Moreover , the movie enjoys an outstanding performance from all the actors , even the minor ones and several sequences and dialogs don't lack humor . But " Titanic " is also a limited place where takes place the confrontation of two different worlds : the proletarians and the middle-class persons . This confrontation is particularly well described during the ship's sinking : the rich are by the lifeboats whereas the poor are still inside the ship and they're forbidden to go outside . The second part of the movie is remarkably well filmed and follows a logical advance based on the increase of fear and distress . Cameron emphasizes particularly on the madness that spread to the passengers but also on the officers . Little by little , these last ones are becoming mad ( one of them will kill unwittingly one of the passengers who was trying to get into a lifeboat ) . Besides , a few touches make the movie surrealist ( the four musicians keep on playing while the ship's sinking ) The other obvious qualities : a gorgeous music , some smart costumes . At the end , a movie that creates a deep emotion and where everything contributes to a perfect success .
The bishop blesses the dogs .	" La Vie de Plaisir " , like " Le Corbeau " , was deemed infamous and banned after the Liberation . The censorship was ruthless and dumb . Albert Valentin would never get over it and , after two more movies , became a writer , sometimes lost in sword and sandal material . However , during the war , he was one of the most promising directors France had . His three movies , although ignored by today's audience are all worthwhile : 1942 : " L'entraineuse " was a delicate melodrama where Michèle Morgan was a night club hostess who tried to make friend with decent people . 1943 : " la Marie-Martine " which many critics consider his best was a woman's portrait a la Citizen Kane , flouting chronology long before " Memento " and co . 1944 : By combining the subject of " L'entraineuse " ( a character enters a world where he does not belong ) with the experiments of " la Marie Martine " ( We see the same scenes from two points of view : a trick that André Cayatte would use again in . . . 1963 for his " la Vie Conjugale " , Albert Valentin brings it all back home and makes a film one hundred times better than its poor IMDb rating . An aristocrat institutes divorce proceedings against his son-in-law , a commoner , ex-owner of a night club " La Vie de Plaisir " ( Life of pleasure ) . Flashbacks : the two lawyers tell the unfortunate love story and Charles Spaak lets his inspiration flow . . . The hunting with hounds is the scene which always comes to mind when someone speaks of Valentin's movie : the bishop , with pomp and ceremony , blesses the pack , a scene which Luis Bunuel would have loved ! Then the younger son of the noble man who got pregnant the woman he wants to marry ( but his family is not prepared to accept a misalliance ) tells the ecclesiastic : " so you've blessed dogs and you would not bless my union ! " Another strong scene shows Maulette ( Albert Préjean ) the simple man telling his wife leaving for the ( clay ? ) pigeon shooting where she meets her father and her ex-suitor " tell the pigeons I side with them ! " This cruel " sport " is a transparent metaphor of how that aristocracy treats their fellow men . Valentin / Spaak portray the wealthy vitriolic style .
Ballerinas , Victoria , and the Loch Ness monster .	They are all here in Wilder's most underrated movie . On the site , people complain about the editing , but you cannot put the blame on the director : his three-hour work was boiled down to a two-hour digest . What remains is splendid indeed : magnificence of the film sets - Trauner's work , he who elaborated those of Carné's " les enfants du paradis " ( children of paradise ) - , intelligence of the screenplay ( not adapted from Conan Doyle , achieving the feat of paying a tribute to the great writer while kindly laughing at his hero : Sherlock is manipulated , cheated , sometimes it seems that he's no more in control of what's happening . His deductions are elephantine : at the opera , they use paper swans , therefore ( sic ) the lake monster is a fake . It could be a fake lake too , mind you . Genevieve Page provides the love interest and her sunshade is a good stroke of inspiration . Sherlock certainly did love her , because , when he reads about her tragic demise , he solaces himself with music and fairly disreputable methods . Let's hope , that some day , we will be allowed to see the whole movie as Wilder had originally conceived it : a great director like him more than deserves it !
No secret to conceal !	Like the singer's own movie , " Renaldo and Clara " , " no direction home " is a very looong movie ( 210 min ) ; there the comparison ends : you do not need the fast forward button here ; every minute of Scorcese ' s movie is absorbing ; it might be the best movie dealing with rock ever made . Although it only covers Dylan's first years ( it stops in 1966 with the motorcycle accident ) , it is so dense , so well-documented that it seems to depict an entire life ; everyone says , anyway , that those years were the best in Dylan ' s career : there were great things afterwards ( " blood on the tracks " ) but who could claim that his music was more ground-breaking than in the 1963-66 era ? " North country blues " , for instance , is not heard , but when Dylan talks about the miners in his hometown , and he tells us about their plight and the fact that they did not think of rebellion , it's impossible not to think of the heroine who " married John Thomas a miner " . Although it's linear , the movie includes scenes of the " rock " period even when Dylan is still a folk singer and has not yet made an album . this may puzzle people not familiar with Dylan's biography but are there any in the people who watch the film ? Scorcese displays a sense of humor which Dylan possessed in those years : for instance " when the ship comes in " ( Joan Baez had already told the anecdote in his " and a voice to sing with " autobiography ) was written because Dylan was denied a room in a hotel ; it became an anthem in Washington with MLK ! When we see Dylan playing in public ( and there are plenty of live songs ) we say to ourselves that all these versions are much superior to the studio recordings which sound often like demos : this is confirmed by the singer in the movie . When asked if he prefers to be acclaimed or booed ( he is booed several times in the movie ) , Dylan hints at Billie Holiday's impressive " strange fruit " after which the audience was silent . A lot of people , from Dylan's legend ( with the exception of Maria Muldaur ) play a big part in the movie : the women , Echo , Suze Rotolo and Joan Baez of course : I'm sure that many people will think that too much is given over to Baez but I personally think that her contribution is vital to the story . Early in the movie , Dylan said that she opened a world for him . Her new cover of " love is just a four-letter world ' is moving . Also of great interest are Pete Seeger's , Dave Van Ronk's , Allen Ginsberg's and Mike Bloomfield's contributions . Much to my surprise , an important musician such as Robbie Robertson is not interviewed whereas he's often on the screen . Minor quibble : the interaction between Dylan and the Beatles ( and to a lesser degree with the other groups of the British invasions ) is almost passed over in silence . Dylan made history : the events depicted in parallel to his-story ( Kennedy , MLK or the cold war when he was a teenager ) are reflected in his works , not only the protest song ( the prophetic " a hard rain's gonna fall " and the universal " only a pawn in her game " ) but also in the " surrealist " ones ( " desolation row " ) Bob Dylan was the greatest American songwriter of the twentieth century : he's got the movie he deserved . Like this . . . try these . . . . None of these movies come close to " No direction come " though . . . . " Renaldo and Clara " ( 1978 ) for fans only ; the others should try the DVD which includes all the live performances ONLY . " Hard Rain " ( MTV 1976 ) unfairly overlooked , this concert includes fine Dylan / Baez duets as well as a heavy metal " shelter from the storm " version . " The concert for Bangla Desh " ( Saul Swimmer 1972 ) 5 songs with Harrison , Starr and Leon Russel ; youtube offers an outtake , a Harrison / Dylan duet , " if not for you " . " Don't look back " ( Pennbaker , 1967 ; Scorcese ' s movie includes many extracts of this excellent documentary ) " The last waltz " ( Scorcese 1978 ) made when the Band split ; Dylan's songs include an exciting version of " baby let me follow you down " . " Pat Garrett and Billy the Kid " ( Peckinpah 1973 ) Alias who ? Best avoid .
I saw the future of French cinema and its name is François Ozon !	A movie launched in 2002 , " 8 femmes " was the establishing movie for François Ozon . Through his movies , from his medium-length film " See the Sea " ( 1997 ) to " 8 women " ( 2002 ) to " the criminal lovers " ( 1999 ) , he developed his own style based on surprise . In short , his aim is to surprise the spectator . With this movie , we can say that he reached his goal and it is probably his most accomplished movie . It is also a movie that confirms the originality of his cinema . First of all , " 8 women " is a movie that surprises by its tone breaks . It means that Ozon passes from drama to comedy with great ease just like Jaco Van Dormael with " Toto the Hero " ( 1991 ) . As for the songs , they are totally unexpected . Which other director would have included musical numbers in a detective movie ? As for the influences of the movie , they are numerous . Of course , this film is an adaptation from a play that evokes the Agatha Christie universe but Ozon felt like scattering his movie with all kinds of allusions : Vincente Minelli , Douglas Sirk ( the deer in the garden ) . These allusions are especially linked to French culture : the French TV program " au théâtre ce soir " but also Jacques Demy ( the bright colors , the songs ) and French cinema before the " new wave " . More than allusions , they are tributes from a director who once said " I don't care about new-wave " . François Ozon also plays with the spectator , a bit like Hergé with the Tintin album " the Castafiore Emerald " . He holds him spellbound until the end of the film either by leading him on wrong tracks , either by giving him clues that seem to make the movie progress , and this until the final revelation that turns out to be unexpected and amazing . Besides , given the conclusion , Ozon's movie can be considered in its whole as a farce with absurd humor . The best example involves Danièle Darrieux . At the beginning of the movie , she seems to be disabled but then she stands up and walks without any difficulty for an important part of the movie ! The movie is also powerful thanks to its dialogs . On this point , beware of the poster where these 8 women have a smiling countenance ! These witty and sometimes ironical dialogs reveal these women's real personality that mainly rests on selfishness . Furthermore , the actresses have a spare time in the shoes of their respective character ( Isabelle Huppert is particularly irresistible ) . Ozon also left high and dry several details that have , in the long run nothing important ( and it is a compliment ) : we don't know at what time the movie takes place . Several points of the movie show it : the songs composed at different times . Then , certain elements of scenery and dialogs seem either dated either modern . In another extent , we never see the face of the sole man in the plot . In the end , " 8 women " is an unrealistic , timeless and unique movie and surprise to see this movie meet commercial acclaim in France . François Ozon by imposing his style so peculiar remains more than ever a filmmaker to follow .
Admirable	The last pictures of " three comrades " indicated that " they " were fighting in town " little man what now ? " had already depicted a society about to explode . " The mortal storm " concludes the tragedy . " The mortal storm " is the hard rain that's gonna fall . It is superior to the two aforementioned works which were nothing short of masterpieces though . Should they have awarded a director the Nobel prize of peace , Frank Borzage would have deserved it hands down . I cannot think of another artist of the era whose movies moves me to tears like him . Borzage's influence was strong on such directors as Minnelli ( 2nd version of " the four horsemen of the apocalypse " ) and Visconti ( " la Caduti Dei Degli " ) . But none of them can match Borzage when it comes to showing hope against hope , human warmth , friendly persuasion , and above all the greatness of man , the noble one and the humble one , the professor who refuses to give up the scientific truth to endorse the Nazi " theory " and the little schoolteacher who proclaims freedom of conscience , the student who remains true to his ideals and his heroic mother ( my favorite supporting part in the movie : Maria Ouspenskaya ) , the tender wife whose love for her non-Aryan husband proudly survives the terrifying brainwashing and the young girl who discovers that her fiancé has become an enemy . All these characters are so endearing we have the strange feeling we have known them for our whole life . Some will call it a propaganda movie . When a movie reaches such heights , the word becomes pejorative , and anyway all Borzage's movies I've seen are all propaganda movies , but in a very special way : they advocate peace , tolerance , justice , love , friendship , altruism . The pictures of the ominous sky , when the film begins , give the movie an universal meaning . And even if the director magnifies the greatness of man , he is not so naive : many of his heroes have to pay dearly for rebelling against fascism . Like Trumbo's " Johnny got his gun " , Abel Gance's " J'accuse " or Kubrik's " paths of glory " , a movie that should be studied in every school of the world .
Everybody's celebrating ! And Duvivier's triumphing one more time !	What can I say of " La Fête à Henriette " ? It's stating the obvious to say that Julien Duvivier was one of the most inventive directors of the French cinema . He almost never looked back , pushing his experiments forward for most of the films he made . " La Fete à Henriette " did not come out of the blue : it's the son of " Sous le Ciel de Paris " one of his most extraordinary achievements . I will try and explain the connection : the 1951 work was made of little stories , subplots - " Magnolia " was not that much an innovation for that matter - and Duvivier already displayed a compassion for his characters , he was some kind of puppet master , a God in miniature who was fascinated by the whims of fate . " La fete à Henriette " is at first a more demanding - less entertaining maybe - , more free-form , but when you've watched it , all you have got to do is stand and applaud . There are much more ideas , much more innovations than in , say , Truffaut's " day for night " ( " la Nuit Américaine " ) . Two scenarists see their last screenplay banned by the censorship . That ' s why the movie begins with ? ? ? ? and ? ? ? ? and ? ? ? ? ? in lieu of cast and credits . They've got a whole screenplay to write , and according to the mood they are in , " La Fete à Henriette " will be in turn romantic , dramatic , zany , satirical , you name it . Henri Jeanson lets his inspiration flow and his lines , his ferocious lines never lose their bite ( A VIP from the French government is about to die and the journalists around the mansion are exchanging nice lines such as : " the ideas he has ! dying on the 14th of July ! or " Hope he ' ll kick the bucket before aperitif's time ! " ) It is Henriette ' s fete , the 14th of July , French Bastille Day ! A gorgeous girl , played by the young romantic female lead of the era , Dany Robin ( most of the users saw her in Hitchcock's " Topaz " ) , has a fiancé , a photograph who has a - professional , that's what he says that is - rendezvous with a glamorous horsewoman ( Hildegarde Kneff ) . Henriette is cross and she starts to flirt with the first to come . That character whose name is subject to several changes is played by highly talented Michel Auclair . The narration is not linear , since Auclair's character is now a crazy person fresh from the asylum ( and Jeanson gives one of his best anti-militarist lines ever - Auclair to a general : " you see me and you do not stand to attention ! ) , now a b . . . . . who tries to rape the heroine , now a hoodlum with a big heart , now a wealthy family's son . . . . The whims of fate ! Duvivier himself reveals as he never did in this work : although it's meant to be a " happy " tale , his legendary pessimism resurfaces now and then . Duvivier's style is constantly superb and the camera work is dazzling . When the story ( ies ) become ( s ) too far-fetched , the scenes are filmed obliquely . The plot often stops since the two writers do not agree and they have endless discussions about what will happen next . They even quote their colleagues : one of them mentions the script ( a news item in the paper he's reading ) of " ladri di biciclette " ( " That would not make a good film ! " ) ; later they will parody Marcel Carné as they introduce for a short while a blind man who epitomizes . . . fate of course ( remember " les Portes de la Nuit " ) . Even the last scene of the fireworks verges on a spoof romantic drama . You can go as far as to write that Duvivier appropriates René Clair ' s " Quatorze Juillet " , but he effortlessly beats his predecessor at his own game . Expect the unexpected and till the last pictures ! The unexpected final twist is witty and as the cast and credits finally appear after the final " revelation " , we feel how much " Henriette " was ahead of its time , not only because it was remade by Richard Quine in the sixties ( the so-so " Paris when it sizzles ) but because many of its strokes of inspiration we found them back in such later works as Michel Drach's " Les Violonsdu Bal " ( the subject has nothing to do with " Henriette " but it imitates the form ) or Peter Weir's " Truman Show " . Did we need the Nouvelle Vague so bad when we had a great director like Duvivier ? A writer like Jeanson ? WE DIDN'T ! ! ! !
Shock corridor in the cuckoo's nest .	I would not label this movie " nouvelle vague " because it would be pejorative to describe that way a movie so harrowing , so disturbing , so madly beautiful . Georges Franju ' s hero is a sane young man , absolutely normal , he's a misfit only for his bourgeois father and the latter's desire for respectability . Sure , he leads a wild life , but when he's with his friend Stephanie , he reveals his longing for tenderness and love , this love that eludes him since he lost his mother , in mysterious circumstances , maybe because of her husband's harshness . So , the hero is not allowed to exist anymore ; the best way to get rid of him is an insane asylum . Here , no possible dialogue with the shrink ( Pierre Brasseur ) : the deal is done , all was arranged in advance with his father . In this appalling place , he meets another patient ( Charles Aznavour's best role ) who places his trust in another shrink ( Paul Meurisse ) : this therapist is a much more open one , who treats his patients as human beings , and who gets good results . Franju's genius explodes everywhere : the brutal kidnapping with these cars rushing in the night , heralding the unbearably violent last scene , one of the more desperate I know ; the asylum with its patients , turning round like lions in a cage ; Aznavour's failed escape attempt and his suicide . Sometimes a light shines in this darkness : Stephanie ( Marvelous Anouk Aimée ) comes and her luminous beauty brightens up this hell on earth ; A singer in the church with an angel's face ( Edith Scob , the heroine of " les yeux sans visages " ) breaks into a canticle and hell turns into some kind of paradise . Compared to " la tête contre les murs " , " les quatre cents coups " seems gentle and nice . A masterpiece .
A salty dog	The second half of the thirties was the moment when the French cinema was at its best ! Only the Nouvelle Vague aficionados will disagree , more power to them but boy If I could , I ' d find the mathematical formula which would prove me right . Take Robert Siodmak : " Mollenard " is probably his French masterpiece , the great work he threatened to make during his French years . Along with " Pièges " ( 1939 ) . Suffice to say that these two films ( and particularly " Mollenard " ) contain the seeds of everything he would make in America in the forties , particularly his films noirs and his thrillers . But none of his American movies can be compared to " Mollenard " where the director reaches for the first time a breathtaking directing maturity . Charles Spaak , the script writer , comes up with plenty of his better lines . The dialog is sometimes so anarchistic , so risqué in the writer's vitriolic style that they say the 1937 audience was baffled by the crudeness of the language . Simply , it has something of Renoir's first bourgeois attacks such as " la chienne " - there are many similarities - . The film features two parts , and those two halves do not seem to belong to the same film ; against all odds , they do . . . ROBERT SIODMAK : A FILM NOIR GENIUS . Suffice to write he made " the killers " " cry of the city " and " criss cross " to name but three . At least 50 minutes of the film are film noir virtuosity where virtually all the scenes are unforgettable : a mythic Shanghai recreated in a studio - but as exotic as Von Sternberg's " Shanghai Gesture " - where a captain and his crew indulge in illegal practices : arms dealing . Siodmak's flair hits home at every picture : the young Chinese contact standing tied on his boat , the international concession where " no one can come back alive " from this dark part of the town , among the ruins , the fog and the machine gun waiting for the sailors ; Dalio's face in the mirror which a bullet breaks ; Dalio's death on his piano , after he confessed that anyway he was bound to lose and it was not his fault if he was an informer . The characters move like jaded human beings , almost zombies , or as if they were out of an opium den . The ship which catches fire in the night . . . The captain of a wrecked ship is always a hero . Although the company knows they were traffickers ( first for the company itself , then for themselves , a thing the boss cannot stand ) , an official fanfare is waiting for them ; actually two are here in Dunkirk harbor , for their buddies have their own band which plays " Dors Mon P'Tit Quinquin " in a gleeful cacophony while the other breaks into " le Régiment de Sambre et Meuse . In a fit of anarchistic delirium , the captain stops the stodgy speech a notable is delivering and refuses to kiss his wife ( " I'd sooner snuff it ! " ) This wife , we met her at the beginning of the movie . It's a sexually repressed bourgeois character , full of bigotry ( you'll serve tea and biscuits to the vicar ; you " ll bring the jam jar but don't you open it " ) , despise and hate for her husband . Everytime he returns is for her a calvary . The performances will blow your mind : Harry Baur was definitely the strongest actor of the era , an anarchistic macho when he was a sailor , an anti-bourgeois anti-clerical boor when he comes home and then a poor bedridden man asking for a revolver to end his life with dignity ; Albert Préjean gives fine support as the big-hearted second in command ; Gabrielle Dorziat shines in her part of a selfish socialite who smiles when she takes her dying hubby to bed ; Marcel Dalio who was often cast as a traitor is so pitiful the audience feels like forgiving him ; Robert Lynen portrays Baur's son ( he'd already done it in Duvivier's " Poil de carotte " 1932 ) , a shy boy who's afraid of his father ( and of his over possessive mum ) . Both Baur and Lynen , oddly , were killed by the Nazis . At a time when the French cinema was at his best , I say it again , " Mollenard " compares favorably with all the classics of the era " Quai des Brumes " " Pépé le Moko " " Le crime de Monsieur Lange " . It's the lost great masterpiece of the golden age . It's essential viewing for anyone interested in Robert Siodmak's sensational American career . The final pictures are superb for the captain has finally come home . The captain cried , we sailors wept Our tears were tears of joy A salty dog , the seaman's log Your witness my own hand ( Keith Reid )
Nothing is dirty when we love each other . . . . .	" Manon " might well be Clouzot's masterpiece , surpassing even " diabolique " " le salaire de la peur " or " le corbeau " . It's an adaptation of " l'histoire de Manon Lescault et du chevalier des Grieux " by L'Abbé Prévost , a novel from the XVIIIth century , but never mind . When HGC Clouzot takes a novel , he makes it his very own . He would do the same for detective story " celle qui n'était plus " which he completely rewrote for " les diaboliques " Clouzot's misanthropy has never been so omnipresent that in this opus . He became an outcast after the liberation in 1945 because of his " collaboration " - " le corbeau " was produced by a German firm-and one cannot help but think that his painting of the end of WW2 seems a settling of scores : the cropped women - they say it happened to the star of " le corbeau " Ginette Leclerc who had a lot of problems too - , the black market , the war profiteers , no one is spared in this wholesale massacre . Serge Regianni epitomizes the scumbag , in a part which sometimes recalls that of Carné's " les portes de la nuit " . But evil is not only inside him , it's everywhere : Clouzot's world is noir , noir , noir and leaves absolutely no hope to the audience . And however the way he films his lovers is stunning : on the ship , Manon under the pouring rain , trying to spend her last hours with Robert ; Manon , in the confessional , in a church in ruins , explaining to Robert she did not do any harm to anyone and that , had the American come first , she would not have played around with the Germans ; the first night of love where the lovers become shadows in the dark ; Robert finding Manon in a brothel ; Manon desperately searching for her lover in the overcrowded carriage ; and mainly mainly the extraordinary final scenes the romanticism of which surpassing even the frenzied passion of " Colorado territory " or " duel in the sun " . Actually , Clouzot's extravaganza is not unlike Von Stroheim's " greed " ' s madness . The male lead , Michel Auclair , is absolutely extraordinary : the last ten minutes are his and he ' s so moving that he carries these sequences in the desert single - handedly as much as he carries Manon ' s dead body . But Clouzot's directing will leave you on the edge of your seat as well : the long walk under a blistering sun , the cactuses which become ghosts from the past , Robert burying Manon in the sand and screaming that now she's his at last . Cécile Aubry ( debut ) portrays Manon . Seven years before Carroll Baker in " baby doll " , she is a femme enfant - much more than a femme fatale - . She's not evil , but she lives in a hostile world and she does not want to live like her mother , she needs luxury ; it's a sensitive character who feels remorse , pain and loves Robert dearly even when she cheats on him outrageously . Her good-natured sexuality and her absence of hypocrisy predates that of Brigitte Bardot by seven years too . Their problem is the world outside : that's why the key of the movie is the sequence in the oasis " why couldn't we stay here forever ? " Manon asks . As they leave this haven of peace - the only minutes of happiness in the whole movie " , Clouzot films their reflections in the cool clear water . And the fact that Manon and Robert are looking for a promise land in the desert in the company of Jews , what a symbol ! " paradise is too far away " she says . The rest of the cast features some of the best actors of the era : Serge Regianni , Manon's dirty brother ; Gabrielle Dorziat , a madam , screaming " quel bordel ! " ; Helena Manson , the nurse in " le corbeau " who wants to punish the whore who sleeps with the enemy ; and more and more and more . . Another permanent feature in Clouzot's work is the sordidness of the places : the crummy boarding-school of " les diaboliques " , the seedy apartments in " quai des orfèvres " , the poor hospital in " les espions " , and here the ship where they pack Jews on their way to Palestine , not to mention the desert with its animal skeletons - soon to be joined by those of the Jews-The action of this movie is remarkably dense , and its construction very subtle : the film begins with the illegal embarkation of the Jews , and then , at the least expected moment , the lovers appear for the first time and shortly afterwards tell the captain their sad story . Did French cinema need the nouvelle vague so bad when it had a genius like Clouzot ? " Manon " is an absolute must . N . B . 1 . Another modern " Manon " " Manon 70 " ( sic ) was made in the sixties with Catherine Deneuve , but it was laughable . 2 . Cécile Aubry's actress career was short-lived ; in the sixties , she moved into the - rather bland - serial for children , the likes of " Belle et Sebastien " featuring her own son ; she was very successful .
Among the very best .	In Boileau-Narcejac's French novel " D'Entre les Morts " = from among the Dead " ) , the revelation only comes in the last pages , but Hitchcock lets the cat out of the bag long before the end . Boileau-Narcejac's novel is a pure detective story , but the Master wanted more : the movie already outdistances the book in a first part visually wonderful , with memorable scenes , wrapped in mystery , such as the one with the sequoia , symbol of immortality or the one down by the sea , to rival with the best romantic movies of all time . In the second part , Hitchcock explains in the Truffaut's book , we know but Scottie ( James Stewart ) does not . And he tries to recreate a dead woman , to transform Judy into Madeleine . This folie à deux ends where the first tragedy occurred , which gives the movie a strength that the book had not . Read it and you'll realize how its end , speaking in terms of cinema , had to be modified for the screen . That's Hitchcock's genius . When Boileau / Narcejac learned that Hitchcock wanted to transfer " Celle Qui N'Etait PLus " ( = les Diaboliques " ) to the screen , they immediately wrote " D'Entre les Morts " on the same pattern for Hitchcock to direct .
when dreams and nightmares collide . . .	My God ! " Requiem for a Dream " ( 2000 ) , what a movie ! It's always difficult to write reviews about perfect movies but I'm going to try . First , there are three adjectives which come to my mind to describe this movie and they're the ones which everyone thinks of : powerful , harrowing and heart-breaking and certain sequences remain engraved in the memories like for example , Jared Leto's wounded arm caused by drug . To watch " Requiem for a Dream " is like being punched in the face . It's the kind of movie which can't leave indifferent . It is impossible to come out of this horrifying movie unharmed . It was made by a young director Darren Aronofsky whose previous movie " Pi " ( 1998 ) was very hailed . I must admit that I wasn't fully convinced by this indie movie but here , without a doubt , the director entirely hypnotized me and I thank him for that . The movie was made from a novel written by Hubert Selby Jr . It isn't the first time that a work from this novelist is adapted for the screen . Indeed , in 1989 , Uli Edel had shot " Last Exit to Brooklyn " which developed a nightmarish and apocalyptic vision of a mankind who lived in hell . Here , the movie focuses on 4 main characters . There's Harry Goldfarb . He , his girlfriend Marion Silver and his best mate Tyrone C Love plan to become high-rolling smack dealers . In the meantime , his mother Sarah Goldfarb has got her head in the clouds . She received a call and she learned that she's going to appear on television . At the beginning of the film , the 4 characters ' hopes amazingly answers the shiny weather of the summer . But as we usually say : best things have an end . Summer will go away to leave place to fall and winter . Just like the dreams will slowly but surely shatter and the 4 main protagonists will embark on an endless suffering . A vertiginous descent into hell like we have never seen one and which will reach its climax in winter in the last half-hour of the movie . From this moment , the film presents a flood of incredible pictures ; they are so painful so much that they make the view unbearable . However , you watch it flabbergasted with both repulsion and fascination . Darren Aronofsky invites us to a climbing in the morbid . " Requiem for a Dream " strikes by its visual and sonorous frenzy . Through , accelerated frenetic sequences , hysterical split-screens , parallel images , the director doesn't pull his punches to describe this diving in absolute horror for the 4 characters . However , in his crazy making , there's none form of unwarranted nature . The features previously quoted may be disturbing but necessary to answer several things which aren't pleasant to hear like for example , to denounce the omnipresence of the consumer society . These abuses express themselves , here , by the crushing presence of objects , perfectly representative of this society like the television or the refrigerator . The another goals of the film : to make us share the physical and moral sufferings of a drug addict , notably through the deterioration of their visual and sonorous perceptions . But also to show us in a straight-forward and rough way , the dependence of a drug addict on his drug . Aronofsky's message is simple to understand . There's not only the drug like cocaine or amphetamines that make dependent but also simple objects apparently harmless which can become dangerous like the television or the refrigerator . They can destroy our faculties of reasoning and judgment . In a way " Requiem for a Dream " illustrates very well Brad Pitt's key cue in " Fight Club " ( 1999 ) : " things you own end up owning you . . . " . On the other hand , if we put the stress on drug , the least we can say is that the moments of shooting , the withdrawal times are showed with a realism and bluntness rarely reached . True , " Trainspotting " ( 1996 ) had already presented similar scenes but Darren Aronofsky isn't afraid to go further in daring . It would be unfair to neglect the terrific cast . Beginning with Ellen Burstyn who in all respects gives a dazzling performance . She renders very well the degeneration of her character . In the beginning , she is a normal old lady but in the end , she looks like a senseless living dead . Why didn't she get her Oscar in 2001 instead of Julia Roberts in " Erin Brockovich " ( 2000 ) ? Then , concerning Jared Leto and Jennifer Connelly well their sensitiveness and fragility are impressive . But the biggest surprise is Marlon Wayans . Who could have thought that he could be at ease in a comic role ( Scary Movie ) as well as in a dramatic role ? These 4 actors make particularly harrowing the very last sequences of the film which show them forever in the depths of despair or madness where pain , humiliation and misery suffer into them . And then , during the final credits , we can hear the sea with a little of relief as if we had just made a nightmare . But what is extraordinary in Aronofsky's work is that he manages to find a little place for humor which acts in an efficient way . In conclusion , this young film-maker has shot a film with a real emotional power . I must confess that I almost shed a tear several times . " Requiem for a Dream " is a movie I highly recommend but beware ! It's not a movie for everyone and for the spectators who didn't watch it , I advise you not to see it if you are in a sad mood . It demands a strong stomach and I think the people who say they weren't afraid during the projection are liars . Don't forget your handkerchief .
Reading History through individual destinies .	The first thing you meet when you study fascism is ostracism : because this " philosophy " is a fake one , there's a need to use scapegoats to assess the " thought " . Ettore Scola's movie , probably his masterpiece , focuses on the outcasts , the scapegoats of the regime . Of the historical event ( Hitler and Mussolini's alliance ) , we will see almost nothing : some military march , some garlands , some scattered voices . . Our two heroes are not invited for the feast of virility . " Genius is essentially masculine " : this is the golden rule Antonietta ( a never better Sophia Loren ) embroidered on her cushion ; Antonietta , whose world amounts to her kitchen , whose pride is her offsprings . At the beginning of the movie , she's a victim of this hypermacho world , but she does not realize it . She thinks she should be happy . Gabriel , on the contrary , is politically aware , he knows about the cancer that is destroying inexorably his country . But as a gay man , he is no longer part of it , he's about to be arrested . Forgetting everything that comes between them , they realize what they have in common and they make love . This is an act of rebellion , particularly for Antonietta , whose ethic should forbid such a thing . Becoming an adulteress in a land where politics and religion combine to repress women as ever leads her to some kind of political awareness . One of the last shots shows her listening to the news on the radio . Expect the unexpected and maybe a doctrine which denies the human being his intimate personality will see that its days are numbered .
Film noir extraordinaire !	This Duvivier gem is the definitive proof that the FRench cinema was not moribund in the late fifties . Julien Duvivier , the master of the film noir French style ( " Pepe le Moko " was a strong influence on the American film noir ) , outdoes himself and gives his last masterpiece . " Voici le temps des assassins " outdistances all former works , it's really the apex of evil . Danielle Delorme ' s character is one of the most perverse you can see on a screen : she almost makes us forget Jean Simmons in " Angel Face " . This girl is perversity flesh on the bone . Is she a victim ( of her education ? her sad background ? ) Delorme told in an interview that her part was " much too much " , that she probably had excuses , that she probably suffered during her childhood : terse answer by the director : " evil people are evil , period . " Duvivier's world is thoroughly noir : the three old women who are featured in the movie are evil too . Germaine Kerjean's character is even more terrifying than the false ingenue : not only she probably broke her son's marriage ( Gabin ) but she has also continued to dominate him . When Gabin introduces her to Catherine , she simply says with a threatening smile : " she has a chilling way about her " ; actually this reply turns the audience ' s heart into ice . this old shrew is sadistic to a fault : you should see her behead her chickens in her guinguette ( cafe where you dance on the banks of the Seine ) ! You should see her thrash her daughter-in-law , yelling , when the whip comes down : " that will knock you into shape ! ! " Catherine's mother ( Lucienne Bogaert ) is a slut , the ugliest woman you have ever met , destroyed by alcohol and drugs . She epitomizes decay . She urges her daughter to kill her husband - who was also his twenty years ago - , and the way she plans the murder , lavishly detailed , makes your flesh creep . And there is Gabin's housekeeper ( Gabrielle Fontan ) , a hypocrite spinster who never found love and thus is jealous of Catherine , who is young and beautiful . she moves in the house like a snake , always on the look-out for some gossips about Catherine , the intruder . The action takes place in three places : 1 ) Gabin's restaurant in Les Halles , now a thing of the past , where the scenarists take a slap at the Americans - who are far from being gourmets - and the dogs ( there's humor in this somber story ) . 2 ) Catherine's junkie mother's room , in a seedy house near decay , where she spins her web . 3 ) Her mother-in-law's guinguette , turned into a living hell by the owner . The characters move from one place to another , as an almost unbearable tension rises and takes all the characters in a bloody violent final by the misty banks of a glittering Seine . This movie contains scenes that will leave you at the edge of your seat , even 50 years after : Kerjean , whipping with an intense pleasure ; Gerard's ( Gerard Blain ) murder in the night down by the Seine ; His dog , barking at a scared to death Catherine . Sincerely , I've seen lots and lots of FRench movies , but few ( if any ) come close to this one when it comes to depicting wickedness , greed and perversity . Once dismissed as " pre nouvelle vague trash " " voici le temps des assassins - looked upon as a masterpiece by Bertrand Tavernier , one of the masters of the contemporary French cinema - has since been restored to favor by a whole generation of viewers ( its IMDb rating is currently 7 , 6 ! Thanks to the users ! ) and critics ( Jacques Lourcelles notably ) . Claude Chabrol and Bertrand Tavernier love this film . Watch " Voici le temps des assassins " at all costs ! ! ! !
The influence of " the innocents " . . . . .	. . . . in the field of fantasy and horror movies is incalculable and is only equaled in significance by that of Robert Wise's " the haunting " . Amenabar's excellent " the others " is the best example , but I could mention almost every good fantasy work ( = which does not rely on special effects ) which was to follow . Of the three versions of Henry James ' novel I have seen , this one is by far the best . Deborah Kerr as the governess is simply sublime and the black and white cinematography is beguiling . So strong Clayton's directing is that we never know if something supernatural happens or if the woman is going nuts . The children are also convincing ; Pamela Franklin would be part of the cast of Clayton's too overlooked sensational " our mother's house " , another film crying to be watched .
They all lived in a narrow submarine .	Among all René Clément ' s movies dealing with WW2 ( " jeux interdits " " la père tranquille " " Paris brûle-t-il ? " . . . ) " les maudits " is simply the best . It might possibly be also Clement's best and I hope many comments will join mine soon . Nazis are escaping from Germany in 1945 now that the writing's on the wall . They will cross the sea in a submarine and take refuge in South America . Among them , a general , a manufacturer and his wife ( who's the general's lover ) , a scientist and his daughter , a French collaborator , a " Dritte Reich " die-hard and his minion . The woman is injured and they have no doctor . So , in Royan , they kidnap Guilbert who will be forced to share their desperate odyssey . Never maybe René Clément's direction has been so impressive : he uses with stunning results the enclosed atmosphere , where the characters are prisoners : the audience like them is panting for breath . When the doctor enters the place , the cinematography suggests a descent into hell . This submarine is really Hell's anteroom . Heightened sensibilities , suppressed hatred , and reciprocal contempt show themselves because of an unbearable lack of privacy . Guilbert , the doctor ( Vidal ) understands that , because he's not one of " them " , his days are numbered , and he's got to play cat and mouse to survive . So strong is the supporting cast that they overshadow the hero ( Henri Vidal was a limited actor though ) . The strange homosexual couple , Himmler's former henchman ( Jo Dest ) and his lover ( Michel Auclair who gives the most fascinating performance of the whole movie ; René Clément met him when he filmed " la Belle et le Bete " with Cocteau , Auclair played la Belle's brother ) are much more than secondary characters . It even includes SM ( the nazi whips his minion ) . When we leave the submarine-coffin , all we find is the dark waters of an empty sea . And when we call at a harbor in South Africa , we find ourselves in Marcel Dalio's ( who was part of " Casablanca " supporting cast ! ) office , the Venitian blinds of which are carefully lowered ; or - in a scene so strong that it rivals the best of Hitchcock - , in the darkness of a coffee warehouse . This is a must-see movie , which was also remarkable for another reason : everyone speaks his language , which was not that much obvious at the time , and it adds another suspenseful plus : the hero must not show he understands German . Henri Jeanson whose sense of humor is intact despite this thoroughly desperate noir story wrote astounding lines : " it looks like Noah's Ark , says the general at the beginning of the film , now all we need is the deluge " . He will not be disappointed . You will not either if you try this Clément overlooked gem .
Absolute masterpiece	On a scale from 1 to 10 , a ten would not be enough for such a masterwork . 1968 was the definitive landmark for sci-fi movies . So innovative was the screenplay , so devastating were the pictures , so haunting was the score that Kubrik's movie took our breath away , mesmerizing us , turning us into creatures in rapture , in awe . Some scenes are so admirable , so sublime , that they make you cry : remember the ape discovering the power of a tool , the spaceships floating while exotic " Blue Danube " is heard . This movie could go on four hours and hours , no one would notice . One hundred years from now , future scholars will write exegesises of the bewildering finale . As vain and futile as the quest for the Holy Graal . Our connection to the movie is subliminal , the long " psychedelic " sequence comes as a perfect metaphor . Remember , in Ingmar Bergman's " seventh seal " , the lines : " questions are more important than the answers " . Kubrick wanted the movie to stir something inside of us , to speak to our subconscious . And AC Clarke , who co-wrote the screenplay mischievously added ; " this is a fiction ; reality will be certainly stranger " . No sci-fi movie comes close to 2001 : " star wars " does not really appeal to adults the same way , by a long shot . " Close encounters " , while aping some of Kubrik tricks , remains puerile and spoils everything by showing almost everything in its turgid finale .
The most Christian movie ever .	" Europa 51 " may be the best of all the Bergman / Rosselini collaborations of the fifties , outshining such works as " Viaggio in Italia " or " Stromboli , terra de dio " . There are two worlds in this god almighty universe : the one in which time is only a quiet river , and the one in which time is killing you . Irène ( Bergman ) belongs to the former one . Masina's character and Inès , the prostitute to the wrong side of town . When her son committed suicide , Irène was chatting , exchanging trivialities with her posh guests . Eaten with remorse , she realizes her taste for society life took the best of her and now it's too late ! One of her friends opens the gates of a then-unknown world for her : factories where men sweat , streets where whores roam , slums where mothers strive to feed thir starving children . The man is a Marxist , and he tells Irene about a brand new world where justice and solidarity will be the golden rule . However , Irene cannot subscribe to this ideology : " This world is not mine because it does not include Michel " - her late son " . Beyond that point , the movie turns Christian ; Marxist materialism cannot satisfy a desperate woman whose spiritual longing is intense . So she takes altruism to new limits , forgetting all about herself , becoming some kind of Mother Theresa . Christian , too Christian . . . Her family begins to think she ' s lost her mind , and they locked her up in an insane asylum . Is the ending optimistic or pessimistic ? I would opt for the first epithet : behind her bars , Irène can see her new friends come and worship her as a saint . She's lost her wealth , but Michel's death was the beginning of an end for her . Through this redemption , she knows that now , this unfortunate boy forgave herThis is one of Bergman's unfairly forgotten performances . It is accessible and should appeal to a very large public .
A tragedy , not a soap opera .	I have always thought it was one of the most underrated Hollywood epics . First of all , it's only partially an epic : most of the scenes are intimate , generally two characters who are constantly tearing each other apart . Joseph L . Mankiewicz , one of the most intelligent director of his time , rewrote the dialogue during the shooting , night after night , and the results are stunning , considering the difficulties he encountered with his budget and his stars . Cleopatra's dream is perfectly recreated , much better than in De Mille ' s version - a good one , though - : It's Alexandre the great ' s plan , this Alexandre from whom she's descended , to make a huge empire , uniting the Orient and the Occident . One of the major scenes takes place near the great conqueror's grave . The second part has Shakespeareans accents : Cleopatra becomes some kind of Lady Macbeth , and Marc Anthony is left alone against the whole Roman army ( the Shakespearian trees ) . The last lines ( repeated twice ) are some of the finest you can find in an epic movie . And look how Fellini has been influenced by Mankiewicz for the final of his " Satyricon " : the photograph turning into a fresco . As for the epic scenes , they are here , of course but they are little over 20 % of the movie . And to Cleo's awesome Rome entrance , you can prefer Ceasar's epilepsy fit . The actors are not as uneven as it's often said . Elizabeth Taylor had already worked with Mankiewicz ( the extraordinary " suddenly last Summer " ) and she learned a lot with him ; she's now ready for the great roles of the sixties : " Virginia Woolf " , " Secret ceremony " " taming of the shrew " . Richard Burton had been " Alexander the great " ( coincidence ! ) in a rather academic movie , and here he portrays a clumsy , almost Don Quixotesque Marc Anthony with art . However , Rex Harrison steals the show in the first half . Supporting actors , including Roddy MCDowall , a puny but shrewd Octavious , and Richard O'Sullivan , an effeminate Ptolemy . This visual poem , a feast for the eye and for the mind must be restored to favor .
Patience and resignation / Impatience and rebellion .	SPOILERS SPOILERS " Douce " is one of the absolute peaks of the French cinema during the Occupation . Sixty years later , its strength is still intact , its beauty fascinating . Probably Claude Autant-Lara ' s masterpiece , it's a work every movie buff must see , particularly the ones who love Max Ophuls's or Joseph L . Mankiewicz's esthetic refinement . Quintet could be another name for it because it deals with five characters , played by five equally brilliant actors . Meet them : - the countess of Bonaffé : an old noble , who has not forgotten 1789 , and who wants to keep the world as it is : " do not give the Poor too beautiful things because they could dream of a luxury they will never be able to afford " . She reigns in her luxury home over her servants whom she despises and humiliates . Marguerite Moreno portrays this dowager with authority . - Her son , a wash-out widower , who lost a leg in the war of 1870 against the Prussians , a big defeat for France . And for the nobles , whose occupation has always been war , particularly before the 1789 revolution , it's ultimate decay . Disenchanted , he's secretely in love with his daughter Douce's teacher Irène . Jean Debucourt plays this aristocrat with bonhomie and a certain naiveté . - Her granddaughter , Douce : a romantic young girl . she's too young to understand . She's in love with the countess's ostler , Fabien . Odette Joyeux was one of Autant-Lara ' s favorite actresses . She will also star in " Sylvie et le fantôme " and " le mariage de chiffon " . - Douce's teacher , Irène . She was hired by the countess , recommended by Fabien , because she's his lover . Madeleine Robinson really shines and is probably the stand-out of a stellar cast . She literally mesmerizes the audience . - And finally , Fabien , loved at once by an aristocrat and a common . He's a rebel , he ' s got nothing but contempt for the countess and her world of privileges . It would take pages to depict all the richness of this work . The most famous scene remains " la visite aux pauvres " ( paying a visit to the Poor ) : the countess bringing a tiny Xmas tree-which contrasts with the huge one in her hall - and a pot - au - feu ( boiled beef with vegetables ) to a needy couple : " patience and resignation " she tells to " comfort " them . Behind her back , Fabien mumbles " impatience and rebellion " . The situation is a cul - de - sac : nothing is possible ; the father's love for the teacher is a misalliance the countess would never agree with . As for Douce , she tries to escape her stifling milieu : she leaves home with Fabien , but tragedy awaits round the corner . SPOILERSµµµµµµµµµSPOILERS The final pictures are astonishing : Irène and fabien are turned out by the countess on Xmas day ; while they leave the house , which represents a crumbling and crepuscular world , more than ever , now that Douce is dead in a fire , you can hear a heavenly carol . END of Spoiler . It would be a crime to pass over Philippe Agostini's cinematography , which enhances the muffled atmosphere of the candlelit mansion . Under this veneer , so many frustrations , so much wickedness , rottenness everywhere .
The miracle worker	It's the second time I've seen " Nightmare Alley " and I still consider it Goulding's best of all his movies I've ever seen . Tyrone Power gives perhaps his greatest performance ever . As great when he plays a handsome miracle worker as when he portrays a human wreck . The screenplay is absorbing from start to finish . The geek scenes might seem pointless at the beginning of the movie but just wait and see . . . Magic ( fake magic ) walks hand in hand with religion : the sequence when Power tells the marshal's fortune is the key to the film : the crook knows the Bible and how to use it to good effects , he read it in a reform school . The whole film is wrapped in an atmosphere of mystery : from the secret code-which fools us the audience - to the tarots Zeena reads and which often mean death , from the psychologist's recordings - which predate lots of movie by decades ( " Conversation " " Sliver " ) to this extraordinary scene in Grindle's garden ( it looks like a cathedral ! ) which is given a supernatural treatment whereas , we , the audience , do know that all is phoney ! When Stanton realizes that he reigns over people ' s minds , he does believe he is more than a magician : he is a miracle worker , a minister , not far from God himself . It's no surprising he teams up with a psychologist . Who can deny that today the shrink has replaced the priest for many people ? For that too , " nightmare alley " was years ahead of its time . The psychologist is Stanton's perfect partner : she knows his weaknesses she uses " what we call " total recall " - well before Verhoeven - " to dominate him , he who wanted to rule the world of minds . We do not really know whether the police cars arrive with their sirens wailing or if she suggests it or if it's in Stanton's mind . God preserve us from a remake of this masterful film noir !
the four hundred " yawns " to the power of 1000	This is Maurice Pialat's debut movie and François Truffuat offered him to produce his first effort . Not only because he was at the time a seasoned filmmaker ( a dozen of films so far for a man who was 36 years old whereas Pialat shot his first film when he was 42 ! ) but because the topic could only please him . Indeed , Truffaut's first film , " les 400 coups " ( 1959 ) revolved around the same subject and was a big critical , commercial hit . However , Truffaut like the rest of the crew who worked with Pialat wasn't prepared to the director's unconventional shooting methods and consequently the two men will never talk to each other again for several years . Pialat used to say that he refused everything planned in the shooting of his films and " l'Enfance Nue " was inescapable to this scheme . Better , it was indispensable to have a genuine , deeply moving work as a result . Created in the chaos with tensions and having to rely on a shoestring budget , " l'Enfance Nue " is part of the top five films about stolen childhood alongside Julien Duvivier's " Poil De Carotte " ( 1932 ) and Luigi Commencini's " Incompreso " ( 1966 ) . What " les 400 Coups " tried to reach , " l'Enfance Nue " achieved it . It's a much stronger flick than Truffaut's very overrated work . The piece of work from the former critic at the fusty " Cahiers Du Cinéma " suffered from a loose narration and cardboard characters which made it a bit humdrum to watch . Given the two other films Pialat gave us after his 1969 vintage : " Nous Ne Vieillirons Pas Ensemble " ( 1972 ) and " La Gueule Ouverte " ( 1974 ) , these three films have often been perceived as a sort of trilogy of life and Pialat's treatment of stolen childhood is drastically different to Truffaut's . He opted for a nearly documentary approach and tried as best as he could to reproduce working class life as it was in the Northern France of the sixties . A method he will tap again with gusto for his next two films . And you can only marvel at Pialat's remarkable camera work and observation . The hero François is a cruel child , perhaps worse than Antoine Doinel who never threw a cat from the top of the stairs ! He goes from household to household because his adoptive parents can't stand his cruelty . He's not the only one like that . At the beginning of the film , Pialat shows us numerous orphans in an orphanage who can't manage to find adoptive parents . But when François is put up by an elderly couple , he seems to have found human warmth and comfort from them . Feeling Pialat manages to convey to the audience in an astounding way . You must be tender towards the attention these little old people give to François like when Granny offers him a piece of cake after François was involved in a fight . And in a sequence close to " Cinéma Vérité " , they talk about François with their own words and how much do they understand him ! More than François's tragic story , Pialat's work encompasses a word picture of Northern France with its ways of life . His depiction is all the more genuine as he hired non professional actors who are in their own roles . During the shooting , Pialat used to write down excerpts of conversation these inhabitants had and to incorporate them in his film . This process of hiring " gifted amateurs " will be tapped again thirty years later for another film set in Northern France : Bruno Dumon's harrowing " la Vie De Jésus " ( 1997 ) . Anyway , Pialat and Dumont understood well Robert Bresson's one of his cinematographic lessons : to hire non professional actors to reach the scale of purity . That's precisely what Pialat reached even if as a perfectionist he denied his film . A hard-hitting approach of naked childhood made without any embellishment . Pialat's debut film gains to be as famous and celebrated as Truffaut's so called masterpiece . And be prepared for a river of emotions !
Evil carnival	Fifty years later , Billy Wilder's tour de force has worn so well it should be considered the finest movie dealing with the media , topping " network " for instance . The world described here is so depressing , so disheartening that it takes drama to new limits . Not only Tatum is evil , but so are the miner's wife and family who take advantage of the situation , regardless of any morals . So is the faceless crowd , who has a wild time , near a dying man . You and me , we could be part of this populace , and maybe we've already been ! Remember the little South American girl who fell into a pit in the eighties . The fair sequences might have influenced Fellini for " la dolce vita " ( hype about a girl who would have seen the Virgin Mary ) . The soundtrack , with its relentless thud , is so oppressive you feel the unfortunate victim's plight within your body and your soul .
Living with war / let's impeach the president ( and the profiteers ) Neil Young in 2006	The first thing to bear in mind is that there are actually two movies , the 1919 silent film - and its watered-down editing of the twenties - and the 1937 talkie which is ( and is not ) a remake . The silent version was filmed when the war was just over , using real pictures of that slaughter . That was first intended as an anti - German manifesto - but only the rape scene with the big German shadow on the wall shows it - . This is the work of a pacifist , Abel Gance , the French David Wark Griffith . The director is in the film : he is Jean Diaz - even if he does not play the part - the pacifist poet who writes an hymn to the sun ( Gance already displays his love of poetry : later in a duel in " le capitaine fracasse " and in almost the whole " Cyrano and D'Artagnan " , the actors declaim verses ) ; Gance's depiction of a small village has the beauty of a pastoral : this quiet nature haunts him as the final pictures of " la fin du monde " ( 1930 ) bear witness . He bows to no one when it comes to direct movements in the crowd : the inhabitants of the village gathering around the decree of mobilization is a great moment . As is the " farewell scene " : Gance uses only hands on the picture and emotion reaches unbelievable peaks . Two men are fighting in the trenches . They love the same woman , one of them is her husband , the other her lover ( Jean Diaz ) . At times the movie might seem patriotic - which the remake was not at all - but Gance manages to show his disgust with war . The subtitles include moving real soldiers ' letters to their family . His hero becomes mad and he thinks that soldiers should write lots of letters so that their wives would receive news long before they were dead . When he comes back to his village , the film suddenly turns supernatural , and that's Gance's genius , one of the most famous scenes in the French cinema , which will be even more impressive in the remake : here anger gives Gance the strength of ten . Let the Dead rise from their graves ! War casualties ' rise from the grave will haunt the viewer till his death . " Your dead will come back , Diaz says , and they " ll ask you for an explanation ! Shame on you , unfaithful wives , war profiteers , politicians and president ! A dance macabre , a skeletons ' dance in a ring had already warned us . The 1937 remake - by no means inferior to the silent work - had to be different : Hitler had come to power and as Jean Renoir said that very year , " we are on the verge of a " grande illusion " . So Gance ' s snatches of patriotism had disappeared and been replaced by strength born from despair . The 1937 " J'accuse " was a distraught plea for an universal peace , and , in spite of its grandiloquence , it still stands today as one of the greatest pacifist works of all time . Besides , the coming of sound allowed Gance to include ferocious lines ( such as : " pretty soon , there won't be enough wood to make crosses " ) A question I will always ask myself : I wrote it in my comment on " Austerlitz " : why was a convinced pacifist such as Gance so fascinated by a warrior like Napoleon ( to whom he devoted two works ) ?
De Havilland's legacy . . . .	. . . to all young actresses who want to learn about their job : watch Mrs De Havilland whose performances are close to perfection ; an actress who did not think twice when it came to make herself look ugly . And the rest of the cast is admirable too : Monty Clift was perhaps the most gifted actor of his generation and sir Ralph Richardson is equally powerful as the selfish resentful father . How is it possible that there are still " critics " who despise William Wyler , maybe the best story teller of the whole American cinema ? His directing is BY NO MEANS academic . Nobody films a ball like Wyler used to do : everybody remembers the fabulous scenes in " Wuthering Heights " , " the letter " and of course " Jezebel " . Here he outdoes himself and his filming of these people dancing is a feast for the eye . I also love the way Wyler introduces his male lead . Besides , Clift is so subtle an actor he makes us believe he might not be a fortune-hunter . Another stroke of genius is the use of the stairs . All along the movie , Catherine goes downstairs then upstairs , till the impressive final sequence . The cast and credits appear on a tapestry which become a picture of the street . A tapestry Catherine will be making during the whole movie too . It represents an ossified society where time stood still . Catherine on her stairs is like a squirrel in a cage . A remake , called " Washington square " , was made by A . Holland starring Jennifer Jason-Leigh , Albert Finney , Maggie Smith and Ben Chaplin . Although it cannot hold a candle to the 1949 version , it's worth a watch though .
Space and time .	. In France , when the movie was released , a lot of critics snubbed it , putting disparagement on it , because it could not hold a candle to Buzzati's masterpiece . But as Jean Cocteau said , critics judge art works , and they don't know they are judged by them ! Valerio Zurlini and his producer-star Jacques Perrin were faithful to the novel . They succeeded in bringing to the screen one of the most abstract , metaphoric , and also depressing literature masterworks of the last century . Perrin is well cast as Drogo , the young officer waiting , waiting , for something that never comes : the tartars attack symbolizes everything you long for , and when it seems it's happening , it's too late . Once proud and brave and full of great expectations , the hero becomes humble and bent , under the burden of the years passing by , inexorably , leaving him a human wreck . In this desolate landscape , in this infinite space , man is not numbered like every grain of sand . The grandiose shots of the desert , the mountains and this strange abandoned city , which seems to contain some mysteries of ancient times , all this contrasts terribly with man's fate : see his ridiculous ceremonies , his military iron discipline , his derisory and laughable " career " , he who's only a breath in Time , only a little dandruff in an universe that eludes him . Zurlini's movie is not totally satisfying when recreating the erosion of time . In the book , it was unbearable . But he made a movie any director should be proud of , a movie that must be seen because the task was hard , and the results are sometimes sumptuous . Perrin portrays Drogo with a great conviction . As a producer , he had serious difficulties , he had to fight to convince , and the end of the movie - which was intended to be , like in the book , in an inn - could not be filmed because the actor / producer was running out of money . Givethis movie a chance , the people who made it did their share !
Tales of the Civil War .	Although it was made during the Nouvelle Vague days , it's not Nouvelle Vague stuff . It's simply FRench cinema , when it is at its most inventive , its most moving , its most beautiful . If you do not like Jean-Luc Godard , if Eric Rohmer makes you yawn your head off , and if you think that Jacques Rivette makes movies for the happy few you are not part of , " Au coeur de la vie " was made for you . Robert Enrico came in blaring , and unfortunately did not come out the same way . Simply , " Au coeur de la vie " is the lost forgotten treasure , the masterpiece of the early sixties almost nobody knows even in France . Its three segments were made separately but they form a seamless whole ; the third segment , " La RIvière du Hibou " ( aka " occurence at owl creek bridge " ) is so mesmerizing , so fascinating , so stunning that not only it became part of " the twilight zone " series but it also inspired Adrian Lyne's excellent " Jacob's ladder " . But it was a shame to get " La Rivière du Hibou out of its context ! The three segments MUST be seen as Enrico wanted them to be ! Let it be so ! " L'oiseau moqueur " is a complex story involving a soldier who may or may not have killed an enemy ( ? ) . The landscapes in the forest are filmed as they never were before ( it might be a French forest but who cares ? ) and four decades later , " the BLair Witch project " tried to do what Enrico did circa 1960 . The forest seems sometimes a place of quietness and serenity with the continuous noise of its wild life , but it may soon become a disturbing threatening trap . As if it were not enough , Enrico introduces a sensational dream sequence - at first we think it's a new segment - where the mocking-bird , the dead woman and the twins may seem out of place ; but further acquaintance shows us that they prepare the last scene with its astonishing unexpected end . " Chickamauga " , the second segment is the best anti-war manifesto since Abel Gance's " J'accuse " ( 1918 and 1937 ) . An user wrote that " Gladiator " borrowed elements from the third segment and when you reach such a level of creativity , it's not surprising . A child ( at the end , we learn something about him which " explains " , so to speak , his attitude ) lives in a house in the South . One day he goes for a stroll in the forest . From a distance , war is raging , to the sounds of " Dixieland " and " the battle hymn of the republic " . We will see nothing of the battle . Night has fallen . The child is going though the woods , where the dead bodies piled up . He plays the bugle and the soldiers awake and follow him , as if he were the pied piper , in some kind of dance macabre . A sequence to rival the wake of the Dead in Abel Gance's classic . The strength of the pictures will leave you on the edge of your seat . " La Rivière du Hibou " is the most famous segment and has sometimes been shown alone as I mentioned before . I wrote a comment on it a few weeks ago , ( see this title ) so I will not write a detailed review . Suffice to say its influence was essential on the fantasy and horror genre . It can be depicted as an hymn to the nature , to love ( the wife who is waiting ) and to life . Man's justice , man's war can do nothing against the light of a sunny day . Life is short , so we ' ve got to make the best of what it's left to us , even if it were for a few seconds . " Au coeur de la vie " , although very ambitious in scope , although going to peaks of visual beauty ( or horror ) , is accessible to anyone . Robert Enrico would never come up with such a chef d'oeuvre again . Three movies as brilliant as this one would have challenged the notorious Nouvelle Vague and would have changed the face of French cinema forever . SEE IT AT ANY COST ! AT ANY COST !
Tower , beware . . .	This is a very rare movie , very rare on the screens and it deserves to be brought out of oblivion . Adapting Alexandre Dumas , Abel Gance did fifty years ago what Patrice Chéreau would do - with questionable results - in the nineties with " la reine Margot " itself a remake of a Jean Dreville film , which was released at the same time as Gance's " la tour de Nesle " . Do not forget that that director was a pioneer , a visionary whose most famous works ( " Napoleon " " j'accuse " ) are as important as Griffith's for American cinema . First thing to bear in mind is that THAT Marguerite , heroine of Gance's work , is not Marguerite de Navarre who married HENRI IV , but another one , who lived in the 14th century , Marguerite de Bourgogne . As for the historical events , well , see at the end of the review . " La tour de Nesles " is a color movie , which was rare in the French fifties . The settings are minimal but splendid and Gance lovingly films reflections of the lugubrious tower and its horrors in the blue-green waters of the Seine . This tower where the Queen waits for her young lovers who are killed by her henchmen afterwards solves the equation of paradise and hell : this scene when the three gentlemen enter a sumptuous room - actually three bedrooms - where three gorgeous naked ladies are eagerly waiting for them , was very risqué for the time ( nudities were extremely rare or they were furtive ) . Here Gance is really going for broke ; and that's not all : this place of all delights suddenly becomes some kind of cage . Abel Gance used to say that a melodrama was a failed tragedy : but personally I prefer a glorious melodrama to a boring tragedy ; and " la tour de Nesles has everything that makes a melodrama worthwhile : orgies , treason , blood , love , adultery , humor , vividness - Pierre Brasseur is the stand-out - and even incest ; it's also a swashbuckler , a genre that will dominate the commercial French cinema in the wake of Gance's film in the 1955-1965 era . The last lines of the movie are François Villon's immortal lines from his poem " ballade des dames du temps jadis " ( second half of the fifteenth century ) . Historical facts : this Queen who was doing away with her one - night lovers by throwing them into the Seine is probably pure legend . Marguerite de bourgogne was Philippe le Bel's daughter-in - law and that king was not quite a joker - neither was his son , here portrayed by Michel Bouquet as an idiot - . When he discovered that Marguerite was having a love affair with a gentleman , Philippe d'Aulnay - a character featured in the movie - , while her sister - in law , Blanche was in love with his brother Gauthier ( also featured ) he was merciless ; the two brothers were - ouch ! - flayed alive and Marguerite was strangled in her dungeon . It's interesting to compare the brothers ' real fate with their role in Dumas's play . As for Buridan ( Pierre Brasseur ) , they say he was a professor at university who had an affair with the queen , actually the starting point of the bloody legend .
Thou shalt not kill .	France , early sixties : the Algerian war is coming to an end but not before 1962 ; pacifist Louis Lecoin is on a hunger strike in order to get the status of conscientious objector for all men who refuse to make war . The general de Gaulle will finally agree , but only when the war is over . A voice rises ; it does not come from the ranks of the nouvelle vague , no , it's an " old " director , Claude Autant-Lara , whose mother had been an active pacifist during WW1 ( an actress , she was thrown out from the comédie française for her ideas ) . Laurent Terzieff plays the part of a young man who refuses to be drafted , because of his religious beliefs . He is abetted by his mother ( a wonderful Suzanne Flon ) . This might be the most difficult French movie to find and see . Never broadcast on TV , it seems to scare everybody . " These academic old hat directors gotta get away " , the new wave was ceaselessly yelling . Not one among them had the guts to tackle such a responsible hard subject .
Expect the unexpected !	A collective work , " dead of night " is to be ranked as one of the finest fantasy and horror movies ever done . Its screenplay is so brilliant it contains the seeds of yet-to-come movies . Two great films which recall sometimes " dead of night " , Maurice Tourneur's " La Main du diable " and Julien Duvivier's " Flesh and fantasy " look like rough drafts compared to it and however they are first-class eerie films . " Dead Night " anticipates the future of the fantasy and horror movie : its premonitory dreams , its extraordinary construction , its stories " à tiroirs " , its disturbing ending - which was imitated several times : Hubert Cornfield's " the night of the following day " among others - and above all its ominous threatening atmosphere in the cozy living-room of an English cottage . But the most extraordinary thing is the connection between the " stories " and the main plot . All the " segments " could spawn a whole movie ; they did anyway : " Christmas party " is " the others " in miniature ; " haunted mirror " would probably inspire Robert Parrish for " doppelganger / travel to the far side of the sun " ; and the " Ventriloquist's dummy " was remade , so to speak , in the late seventies as " magic " ( fans of Anthony Hopkins remember ) . This latter segment takes the viewer to a story full of madness where the writer and the director play with his reason . Michael Redgrave ' s performance is absolutely admirable , and his last sentence is really spooky . The only slight sag in the texture and the tension of " dead of night " is given by " golfing story " which is some kind of comic relief and which does not fit well in this context . After being treated to the delights of such sensational stories as " Hearse driver " " Christmas party " " Haunted mirror " and finally " ventriquolist's dummy " which leaves you on the edge of your seat , the best is yet to come ! The architect who has this feeling of " déjà vu " feels that something frightening is about to happen . The directors take the viewer to an incredible finale , which connects all the links of the chain . This film predates Luis Bunuel's dreamlike sequences in " the discreet charm of the bourgeoisie " and Adrian Lyne's " Jacob's ladder " . A work which is so ahead of its time that it does not seem to have a beginning and an end . Full circle . A fantasy and horror buff MUST SEE " dead of night " ; it's essential viewing , the grammar of the genre .
The best French movie of all time .	This is not legend . This is fact . And anybody who would not have seen it could not claim to know the French cinema , had he even seen the whole Godard filmography . Those were the occupation years . " Les visiteurs du soir " which preceded " children of paradise " took place in the MIddle Ages , it was an alibi . Ditto for " children " . Carné and Prévert chose the nineteenth century , and their screenplay drew its inspiration from Balzac , Hugo and Eugène Sue . They created characters ( Garance , Jericho and the count Montray ) and they introduced real life ones : Baptiste Debureau belongs to the legend , but he did exist , he is often mentioned even in contemporary songs such as Charles Aznavour ' s " les comedians " . He invented the Pierrot character , as dear to the French collective memory as Charlie Chaplin . Lacenaire was also a notorious criminal who died on a guillotine : recently , in the early sixties , he was devoted a whole movie , questionable though ( see " Lacenaire " by Francis Girod ) ; his partner in crime , Avril , also appears ( Fabien Loris's part ) . Frederic Lemaitre was a comedian who created " l'auberge des adrets " - a melodrama he turns into a farce in the movie - and other melodramas . Prevert was at his best and most of his lines are memorable . Arletty / Garance epitomized his spirit , she WAS " je suis comme je suis " flesh on the bone . Since word plays and poetry abound , I urge non - French people to see the movie in French with subtitles . Anyway who could dub the unique Arletty ? Her voice is inimitable . Admirable sequences : the " boulevard du crime " with its crowds , its attractions ; the sensational mime show by Jean-Louis Barrault ; the perfectly captured atmosphere of the theater ; Garance in the count's luxury apartment ; the carnival which remains today maybe the finest final of any French movie . Mixing real life and fiction ( mime , drama ) , Marcel Carné predates Truffaut's much inferior " day for night " by thirty years , which subject had already been treated by André Cayatte ( " les amants de Verone " , with another Prevert script ) . The sequences seem to follow naturally , we do not feel any gap between what is lived and what is acted . Alexandre Trauner's - who clandestinely worked - film sets were all the more impressive as they were made at a time where the disposable funds were not that much high . Arletty could not attend the premiere for she was in jail . Like Clouzot and so many others , she was unfairly blacklisted for the wrong reasons ( she had loved a German - whom she knew before the war ; she had always said she did not want to have a child because he would become a soldier ) . Her career was partly broken and she never had the parts she deserved afterward . Marcel Carné was , along with Jean Renoir and Julien Duvivier , the best director of those somber years , that is to say one of the three best directors of the French cinema .
I work in a sewer . . .	. . . but I live near the stars . Another sublime work by John Borzage , one of the greatest directors America has ever had . Charles Farrell and Janet Gaynor were the romantic couple of that era . Both were able to transcend the limitations they were working under , that is to say , to convey any emotion without using voices . The soundtrack is particularly good including military marches ( " la Madelon " sung in French , " La Marche Lorraine " ) as well as French folk songs ( " J'ai Du Bon Tabac " " Fanfan La Tulipe " ) and even opera arias . Remarkable scenes : Gaynor , sadistically whipped by her sister , and the relatives from South America , who would not take in those whores Chico ( Farrell ) discussing faith with his fellow men in the streets at night , and the " miracle " : the priest telling him he would become a street-washer . " The Bon Dieu " ( in French in all the lines ) cares about you ! ) . Chico and Diane in the boy's apartment on the seventh floor : this is probably the most romantic scene in the whole silent age , with the eventual exception of the scene in the church in Murnau's " Daybreak " which also featured Gaynor . These extraordinary lines by Chico : " I work in a sewer but I live near the stars . The historical episode of " les Taxis de la Marne " and the old man speaking of his old car : " She gave her life for France " . More than " the river " the complete version of which is unfortunately impossible to see , " Seventh Heaven " contained the seeds of what Borzage ( and others ) would do later The lovers against a hostile world subject reappear in " little man what now ? " and " Mortal Storm " . All in all , the woman is stronger than the man , it's her who builds the couple ; here , Chico did not want to say " I love you " , he thought it was silly . And he is a remarkable fellow though ; the loyal male friendship between Gobin and Chico predates the extraordinary camaraderie depicted in " three comrades " The priest and Chico's road to Damascus , we will find them back in " Strange Crago " , where Borzage's Christian concerns admirably emerge again . The telepathy , the supreme hour ( the French title is " l'Heure Suprême " ) when the two lovers , although they are worlds apart , during which they are " together " not only influenced Henry Hathaway for " Peter Ibbetson " but also predates Borzage's own " I'll always loved you " where the two heroes communicate by music . The last pictures are so strong we do not know at first if it's reality or if Chico takes Diane away into a dream . . . or onto the true Seventh Heaven . But we , the audience , we were in the Seventh Heaven . Borzage was a genius , period .
Let there be light !	Is there anyone more important in the history of cinema than the Lumière bros ? If there is , I want to know his name right now ! Without them . . . . The pictures are all by Louis Lumière , the editing by Marc Allégret who made pleasant films , although not as exciting as those of his brother Yves . Marc Allégret was born in 1900 at a time when the cinema was still a new born child . . . . or a marvelous toy , a magic eye , or should I say a time machine . . A time machine is the right word : thanks to Louis Lumière we can see Paris as it was at the end of the nineteenth century . Although the cinema was reportedly born in 1895 , some of their movies were made the year before . The film begins with a biography of the Lumière family , but from 1894-5 onwards , their life ( actually Louis's ) and their work merge . The first shorts ( " Le Dejeuner de Bébé " ) revolved around family life . Louis Lumière did not think that his invention would last and he wanted to capitalize on it . It's often said that it took Melies to make the cinema a show , but Lumiere had already felt that it could " tell stories " : " L'Arroseur Arrosé " and " La Concierge " ( a female part played by a man ) . . But more than these anecdotes , the real meat lies in Louis's news movies . At a time people did not travel , this was a fantastic new way to see the world : Lumière began to film everywhere : in England , in Austria , in America ( where he was carried in triumph ) , in Russia . One must remember that at the time , Russia was France's ally ; some may call these films propaganda but we are taken to the coronation of Nicholas the Second and we attend his visit to president Emile Loubet at the beginning of his reign . The voice over insists on the quality of the pictures , which were influenced by the painters : there are " colors " in the blacksmiths segment and there is plenty of relief everywhere . Lumiere was capable , for a period of years , of ceaseless change : moving from his garden to the whole world , taking his movie camera everywhere , on a moving train or in the elevator of the Eiffel tower ( which predates Clair's technique in " Paris Qui Dort " ) . He invented the tracking and the editing . This movie is really a time machine ! It's well worth your time !
The one and only .	Yes , the one and only ; beware of remakes like the eponymous title and plagiarisms like the 1975 appalling version featuring Pamela Franklin and Roddy McDowall . It ' s gothic horror's peak , with superb performances , particularly Julie Harris , wonderful , marvelous actress , who would have deserved a more glorious career . Claire Bloom is fine too and suggests lesbian tendencies with finesse . The settings are haunting ( yes ! ) and the story beguiling . After almost two hours of wandering in threatening rooms , rickety stairs and shock corridors , Robert Wise does not conclude : he left us with our questions in front of a huge hole , and his end is the only one that could satisfy us . A great , great horror movie , don't miss it and , for heaven's sake , do avoid the remakes !
He gave everything . . . .	. . . and took nothing for himself . . . . This Aline McMahon's last line will haunt you long after watching this extremely moving work by William Wellman who was , along Frank Borzage , America's finest director of the early talkies . Both were fighting for the dignity of men , both made movies which - it's all over nowadays , with the possible exception of perhaps Clint Eastwood's work - can help us become better men and women . THere are similarities between " Heroes for sale " and " I'm a fugitive from a chain gang " . In the latter , Paul Muni tries to sell his medals but in the shop , they already got too many of them , so he ' s got to steal . In " heroes for sale " , Tom , who lost all the honors to a coward who shamelessly walked away with the glory , has to cope with everyday's life in the years of depression . Wellman , although his films were heartfelt pleas for the human being , was not optimistic . Happy ends were not for him : Tom ( Heroes ) , Gilda ( " Safe in hell " ) and Lilly Turner in the eponymous film are victims of the war , of fate or of men . They want to keep their promise ( it's obvious in Gilda's and Tom's case ) , even if it costs them their life or their happiness . And let's not forget " the oxbow incident " , the saddest of all westerns , a scene of which shows Dana Andrews writing a letter to his wife he knew he was not to see again . When I watch these Wellman oldies , I'm amazed by this : the really happy moments are so few and far between I wonder how a man or a woman at the end of a hard earned day find some reason to believe . But they are here : the restaurant where Aline McMahon takes in the last lonely and wretched and gives to the poor for free ; Loretta Young's smile which lightens up the seediest of the rooms ; the boy saying : " when I grow up , I want to be like him " . A masterpiece that should not missed .
Harrowing , extremely beautiful .	Childhood is in the center of Comencini's work . " Incompreso " sees him going at a peak of true emotion and aesthetic refinement . Comencini is one of the greatest directors Italy has ever known even if he remains in the shadow for so many cine buffs . If you have the chance to see " incompreso " do not miss his other works " lo scopone scientifico " " Pinocchio " , the best version of the Collodi classic and his mammoth series " Cuore " , these two works dealing with childhood too , not to mention such achievements as " Casanova veneziano " ( which beat Fellini at his own game ) and " l'ingorgo " " Incompreso " is one of the saddest movies in the world and however , it's not a melodrama : it's pure emotion , realism , quivering sensitivity . A man's - a consul - wife dies and he ' s left on his own with his two children . He's a good father , but he wants his older son to become adult , to act like a man . Anthony Quayle's portrayal is not that of a tough man ; it's only little by little , in spite of his good will , that he leads his son whom he loves to despair . Some people say that you become a man when you lose one of your parents , after all ! In many a melodrama , we have heard the mother say after the father's death " now you're the man " . Comencini's work is the contrary : for him , even if a child shows more perceptiveness than the grown-ups ( see " lo scopone scientifico " or " cuore " ) , he still remains a child who should be allowed to suffer , to cry and to love . Because the father thinks that a big boy does not need tenderness anymore and he takes only the little brother in his arms . The mother is still here even if the boy does not see her anymore : there's a painting in the house , a tape which the father recorded before her death and mainly a big garden where the two brothers speak of intimate things like death . All the nannies ( are you like Mary Poppins ? asks the younger boy ) in the world that the wealthy dad can pay cannot help : that's why they stay out of the game ( and out of the games ) : never the boys will communicate with them . The first part of the film tends to show that Milo , the little kid , is the frail one ; an admirable sequence , taking place during a storm at night , shows the father taking his little boy to his room . . . but closing his door to the other . SPOILERS : Because his father does not seem to understand him , to love him , to treat him like a . . . child , the only way for him is to go where his mother is . Then begins a harrowing finale , during which the father understands ( but too late ) that his son wanted to die , even if the accident had not happened . The essay which the boy wrote " my best friend , my father " , climaxes the movie . the last picture is an extraordinary fade - in ( the mother's picture ) fade-out ( the dead boy in his bed ) . These final pictures alone would make the movie a masterpiece . Superb cinematography , remarkable cast and credits over paintings of another century , first-class score which enhances the emotions but never drowns them out . Absurd remake by Jerry Schatzberg in 1984 ( " misunderstood " ) with Gene Hackman taking on the part of the father and colossal mistakes ( flashback where the mother appears , hollywoodian happy end ) . These remakes are really a curse .
The modern melodrama was born .	The melodrama we would love with Stahl's and Sirk's works was born with Pabst . We are far from DW Griffith's " orphans in the storm " ! Although implausible , this film has realist accents and Pabst's directing takes our breath away . And what a beautiful last line : " Nobody's lost when there's a little love ! " Melodrama is par excellence a woman's story . An unfairly treated woman . Its construction is parabolic : happiness , downfall , redemption . But " Tagebuch " is much more complex ; its first part already features tragedy : Elisabeth's suicide is a sinister omen . Admirable sequences : The reformatory where two martinets ( a shrew and a terrifying smiling bald man ) treat their pupils like dogs . The scene when the girls eat their soup is unforgettable . The scene at the notary's office where Thymiane returns good for evil , which climaxes the movie . Pabst uses no ( or so few ) subtitles : his pictures have the strength of a Chaplin movie . The close-up on Meinert's hand after the girl has refused to shake it , sublimates her redemption . The final scene when Thymiane meets again her former mate and her final rebellion : " I know the benefits of that house ! " Like very few silent movies , " Tagebuch " can grab today's audience at least as much as " Pandora's box " ( aka " Loulou " aka " der büchse der Pandora " ) . Both movies have a very dense screenplay full of twists and unexpected ends - Loulou's death in the former ; Thymiane's rebellion in the latter ) . Both feature Louise Brooks , who remains an attractive woman even by today's canons when so many silent screen actresses'charm - and actors ' - seems outdated nowadays ( think of Brigitte Helm - Maria in Lang's masterpiece " Metropolis " ) . Her charisma was so strong that she did not have to speak to move us . That may account for her failure in the talkies . Do not miss Pabst's anti-war " West front 1918 " either . It compares favorably to Milestone's " All quiet on the western front " and Gance's " J'accuse " .
Duvivier le magnifique .	While Godard and co were still in diapers , Duvivier , Renoir and Carné were inventing the best French cinema that had ever been . I would trade you all M . " A bout de soufflé " filmography for " un carnet de bal " Leonard Maltin gives a four stars rating to this 1937 movie , and all we can do is approve of his judgment . The movie of nostalgia , of time passing by , of disenchantment , " un carnet de bal " is all this and more . On the banks of a lake - the romantic place par excellence - , a woman is remembering her past . Her madeleine de Proust is her dance card . " Memories tumbling like sweets from a jar " . But these sweets leave a bitter taste in the mouth . She goes back in the past , in search of her long lost dance partners . She will have to delude herself : what she discovers is ruined lives , regrets , embittered characters , human wrecks . Time is a hard Master and it leaves no one unharmed . As always in Duvivier's work , the harder they fall , the better the sketches are . For it is basically a movie made up of sketches , Julien Duvivier's métier . All youth ideals have gone down the drain : the brilliant medicine student has become an abortionist ; the lawyer with bright prospects now has a lousy shady cabaret ; one of the woman's beaus is dead and his mother gone nuts acts as if he's still alive . Two of them have escaped to a doomed fate : but one has become a priest and the other keeps his love for something else than women . The movie made up of sketches , as I said , has always been Duvivier's forte . Here , there are seven flashbacks , one prologue and one short epilogue : strange how this final resembles that of Mitchell Leisen's " to each his own " ( 1942 ) , when the boy says to Olivia De Havilland : " I think it's our dance mother " . Having directed with a topflight cast " tales of Manhattan " ( 1942 ) in America , Duvivier went even further in the " sketches movie " : in " sous le ciel de Paris " , he used intertwined little stories till all these subplots became a seamless whole . Yes , Julien Duvivier's importance in the seventh art is incalculable .
to rank among the 5 best movies made in 2001	" And all the other voices said : change your mind , you're always wrong " ( the Cure , Other Voices , Faith , 1981 ) . A few years ago , Alejandro Amenabar's third movie was prominent in the top 250 of IMDb . But today , it isn't there any more . That's really unfair . It largely deserved its place and to occupy it as long as possible . After , " Tesis " ( 1996 ) and " Abre Los Ojos " ( 1997 ) , Amenabar goes up a notch and signs with " the Others " ( 2001 ) a masterful masterpiece which refreshes fantastic cinema and breathes new life into the theme of the haunted house . He largely deserves his nickname of " new young prodigy of Spanish cinema " . With Tom Cruise , partly responsible for the production , one could fear a strong Hollywood influence in Amenabar's opus . But fortunately , it's nothing of the sort . As a matter of fact , just like the great M Night Shyamalan , Alejandro Amenabar appears as a real author , on the fringe of the Hollywood industry and he's got enough character to let his style nurture . Let's hope he won't be crushed by the Hollywood machine . The movie was shot in Spain , with eventually a modest budget ( 17 millions of dollars ) and it was a surprise to see it doing brilliantly a little everywhere in the world . Amenabar had already ventured in the dreadful world of the snuff-movies with his debut movie " Tesis " and had succeeded in mixing several films genres in one cohesive narrative line with " Abre Los Ojos " . But with " the Others " , one didn't suspect a real ease in the " In Camera " . It's a quite dramatic change of style and in the end a successful translation in the fantastic . Amenabar's references are easy to guess . They're three cornerstones in fantastic cinema : " the Innocents " ( 1961 ) , " the Haunting " ( 1963 ) and " the Sixth Sense " ( 1999 ) . " The Others " can be considered as the meeting of these three opus . All the elements of the fantastic movie with Gothic nature are gathered and perfectly used . There's no shortage of examples : an austere mansion with a sinister architecture which hides a dark secret , big rooms half obscured , a mist which tends to thicken throughout the days , characters with sinister-looking faces . All these features blend themselves to create a nearly stifling universe . Moreover , Amenabar favors a calm and quite slow rhythm to play with the spectator's nerves as much as possible and we are entitled to real moments of fear . It is also interesting to write that a minimum of special effects is just enough for the director to maintain anxiety . He also weaves a more and more threatening atmosphere marked out by the progressive reversal of situation ( in the beginning of the film , Nicole Kidman dominated Fionnula Flanagan but in the middle of the film , it's the contrary which happens ) . And , of course , like in a successful suspense movie , virtually all the obscure or ambiguous points are clarified making the story incredibly coherent and after the final conclusion ( which of course , I won't reveal ) , the very last sequences have a strong emotional power and it would take a heart of stone to resist them . On another extent , let's also take down the omnipresence of religion , supposed to be a sort of protection for Nicole Kidman but which , in the end turns out to be useless . One can put forward that Amenabar had surely a strong catholic education and he must have lost his faith . . . But the qualities of " the Others " don't stop here . It is visually and technically an appealing movie with a gorgeous photography ( certain images are breathtaking ) and there's also a careful work on sound and the original soundtrack . On of the most important characteristics from Alejandro Amenabar is that he composes the music of his own films and her , very simply , he excels himself . The delicate and disturbing sounds we can hear contribute to reinforce the threatening atmosphere of the film and makes us feel a little more ill-at-ease again . " The Others " was released when Nicole Kidman was just divorced from Tom Cruise and I had thought that she gave the image of a more mature and ambitious actress . Amenabar's flick confirms it . One is really under the impression that she gives the best that she can . There's nothing to say about her role she takes with consummate skill . Her role of haughty middle-class housewife with a cold and penetrating look is sufficient to make one shudder . What is strange is that her name in the film is Grace and her hairstyle is reminiscent of Grace Kelly's . Is it a nod to the actress ? Be that as it may , it would be unfair to forget the rest of the cast , especially Fionnula Flanagan who under a docile and frail appearance can easily become disturbing . At last , Amenabar made quite a creditable job of the directing of children who are , in general difficult actors to direct . A chilling and great movie from start to finish . To fully savor all lights turned off . Highly recommended . Hats off to Mr Amenabar : he is one of the main leaders of Spanish cinema and his career is starting well as the triumph of " Mar Adentro " ( 2004 ) testifies .
Chabrol's predecessor .	First of all , there is a detective story : " légitime défense " by Belgian Stanislas André Steeman whose " l'assassin habite au 21 " Clouzot had already transferred to the screen in 1942 , with Pierre Fresnay and the same actress Suzy Delair . Steeman complained about Clouzot's adaptation for both movies . The movie from 1942 was excellent , but the " detective story " side had been kept , so why complaining ? As for " Quai des orfèvres " , Clouzot was now in a new phase of his brilliant career . After having directed " le corbeau " and been blacklisted , he had a lot more to say than a simple whodunit . Steeman complained essentially about the poor detective ending , which I will not reveal of course , but Clouzot focused on the social vignettes , on his characters's psychology , and he did not give a damn about the puzzle à la Agatha Christie . By doing so , he becomes the genuine predecessor of CLaude Chabrol who has always been closer to him than to Alfred Hitchcock whom he admires much though . Suzy Delair has great screen presence , and you will love the song she really sings ( she was a singer too ) " avec son tralala " . Bernard Blier gives , as ever , a sparing of gestures and words performance , and he really pulls it off . Two characters are particularly interesting and disturbing : the first one , Dora , the photographer : she takes pictures of female models , and Clouzot , by subtle touches , reveals us she's a lesbian . Of course , the word is never uttered ( How could it be in 1947 ? ) The police chief ( fabulous Louis Jouvet ) tells her : " You and me , WE are not lucky with women . " The portrait of this cop is very detailed : we learn a lot of things about him , not necessary connected with the Delair / Blier plot : he's a widower , with a son he adores and who runs into school difficulties , particularly in geometry . So we get to know all the characters in depth . One of the most important manifesto of post-war French cinema .
dancing on a volcano . . .	Jean Renoir is often considered as one of the masters of French cinema of the thirties . He surprised in the diversity of the genres he tackled during that era : literary adaptation ( Madame Bovary , 1933 ) , entertaining comedy ( Boudu Sauvé Des Eaux , 1932 ) or political manifestation ( la Marseillaise , 1937 ) . Perhaps more than " la Grande Illusion " ( 1937 ) , " la Règle Du Jeu " is the magnum opus of that era and perhaps of Renoir's whole career . A movie offering a great variety of tones and a liberty of style which looks like a light comedy but which conceals delicate topics . Given that it was a mirror of French society , it encompassed an unusual construction , a highly worked and unconventional directing , it is easy to understand why the movie was decried by French public in 1939 . Throughout the years , it was butchered , was cut several times before fortunately being restored to favor in 1965 . Renoir had developed in some of his anterior films a scathing critic of French bourgeoisie . Movies like " Nana " ( 1926 ) , " la Chienne " ( 1931 ) or " Boudu Sauvé Des Eaux " ( 1932 ) already embodied a wholesale massacre of the upper-class milieu whom Renoir underscored their hypocritical aspect . " La Règle Du Jeu " is his last attack on this society . The filmmaker understood that it was impossible to change the aristocratic world and its shallow rules . The tail end is here to prove it . Robert De la Chesnaye ( Marcel Dalio ) by qualifying Jurieu's death as a " deplorable accident " whereas it was a premeditated murder saved the appearances . But Renoir also knew that the Second World War was about to break out and was going to put an end to the aristocratic domination . So , he felt that it was his duty to give a true image of French bourgeoisie before the tragedy . Renoir's magnum opus is an innovative film because the director did the opposite of what a majority of French filmmakers did at that time . Many of Renoir's French peers relished on Hollywood conventions to tell and shoot the stories of their films . Here , the movie isn't built from one character's standpoint but from a group of characters belonging to different social classes , a scheme which was unusual in the thirties . Renoir used this device for a better observation of French society in decay and he was audacious enough to break the rules of narrative continuity and to use a complex directing . For example , he had tapped the depth of field in his wondrous " Partie De Campagne " ( 1936 ) , here , he used it again with startling results to create memorable images , notably during the party sequence . Renoir knew very well the aristocratic world he described in his film because he used to belong to it . He was the son of the famous French impressionist painter , Auguste Renoir . An important part of the film takes place in " la Colinière " , a mansion which seems to be virtually cut off from the world , it's the sole world which exists . " La Règle Du Jeu " represents a world with a constricting etiquette , immutable values . Two camps : the smug , posh bourgeoisie and the servants . Its members are walled up in their respective social background and the two most important criteria of distinction are money and property . Apart this hard-hitting assessment , Renoir's genius shines when it comes to underline their mediocrity and lack of education . Jackie tells Mrs La Bruyère that she studies Pre-Colombian art and the latter assimilates it to Buffalo Bill . Moreover , the " rule " in question is based on lie , hypocrisy and injustice . La Chesnaye has an affair with his mistress Geneviève and his wife Christine ignores this . But the sight at the shooting party is a symbolic object because she makes Christine's eyes open about this illicit love affair . But perhaps the most powerful symbol of this society is the automatons . They are clockwork toys just like the rules , the manners which govern an ossified world . Then if Jurieu died at the end of the film , it's because he remained honest in a world of corruption . Although there are no direct references to war , there are veiled hints at it throughout Renoir's work . Of course , the famous hunting sequence was often interpreted as warning signs to the tragedy , but also during the party with the " danse macabre " , the way the audience reacts : a mirror of French society about the impending tragedy which weighs like a Sword of Damoclès and the military capacities of French army . But there another allusions to war elsewhere in Renoir's work : the tolling of the bells when the guests arrive to la Colinière , the gun shots La Chesnaye can hear when he walks in his domain , his gamekeeper Schmacher's persona . . . Moreover , there are clear signs that this society is in poor running , notably during the party sequence . The frontier between masters and servants is abolished . An impression of disorder is enhanced by an astute use of the depth of field and long takes during which several actions take place in the same time . Then , Christine who will think of fleeing from this rotten microcosm . But , in the end , La Chesnaye will have saved the appearances . But for how long ? Every sequence , every character of " la Règle Du Jeu " should be studied in detail . It's an unqualified must for any cine buff . The technical innovations will have an influence on future directors like François Truffaut while the bourgeois satire will be later resumed by Henri-Georges Clouzot and Claude Chabrol .
Greatness Boulevard .	Generally considered as Wilder's peak , it lives up to its reputation . Fifty years later , it remains the best movie about movie world , not only hollywoodian . One hundred times plagiarized , never surpassed . First of all , there ' s the Swanson / Von Stroheim couple . He directed her in the famous " Queen Kelly " ( another must of the silent movies ) . Von Stroheim was too ahead of his time , his movies scared the censors , so he was not allowed to pursue a career that would have been stunning in the talkies . Here he became ( supreme downfall ) , Swanson's butler , while we see one of his former colleagues , Cecil B . De Mille , playing his own role , still directing . Von Stroheim's character is called " Max von Mayerling " , probably one of Wilder's private jokes : Stroheim once said he was the son of a lady in waiting of Austrian Empress Elisabeth ( Sissi ) whose son Rudolph committed suicide in Mayerling ! And Wilder was Austrian too . Swanson is impressive too . The comeback myth is the dream of every actor whose star is slowly but inexorably fading . that she continues viewing her old - and real ! - triumphs like " Queen Kelly , that she's writing an extravaganza shows that her comeback desire has reached the point of no return and that her only place in this world is the asylum . What Swanson did not achieve in the movie , she did it for real : she really could come back ( as Lilian Gish ) , her performance , particularly in the last scene , has stood the test of time . Wilder as a scriptwriter outdoes himself here ; lines like " I'm still big ; it's the pictures that got small " could be pronounced today ! 25 years later , he would try to update " sunset blvd " with " Fedora " : the latter suffered by comparison , but it's a very worthwhile work that every fan of this great director should see .
Gance is the French word for Griffith . . . .	I'm the first French user to write about the best French movie of the silent era . Even a poster from Slovenia wrote about it ( he or she had a French relative ) . But no French . Part of the reason can be found in the fact that it has become almost impossible for the French to see Gance's work in its native land ; my copy is the Coppola version , with English subtitles , which is a bit amazing all the same . Believe it or not , it is never screened on French TV : about ten years ago , it showed a digest " Napoleon et LA revolution " which essentially consisted of extracts of roughly part one ; it's not available on DVD , it has not been shown in movie theaters for years ; a lot of people know the existence of this film , few have seen a decent version , and less have seen the original version , with Gance's dialogs - a work always loses something when translated in another language - The Coppola version is quite satisfying , Carmine Coppola's music really enhances the phenomenal pictures and displays a good knowledge of the French culture : the original music often segues into French hymns ( of course " La Marseillaise " which was written in 1792 , but also ' Le Chant du Départ " as well as English anthems ( " God save the king " and " rule Britannia " ) ; revolutionary songs ( " Ah ca Ira " - " Chanson des Sans - Culottes " - " La Carmagnole " ) are also present . Coppola sr also included French folk songs such as " Malborough S'En Va t En Guerre " or the obscure " La Chanson du Carillonneur " which is heard during the siege of Toulon . This " drummer song " which I sang at school ( and never heard of afterwards ) has several versions , one of them is about the appalling army of king Louis ( I cannot tell which one " whose soldiers would bravely serve if he paid them well ; that's really a smart idea to have included it in the soundtrack . On the other hand " Auprès de Ma Blonde " , which Gance had selected to enhance the final on the " Triple Ecran " in Italy did not make the Coppola score . Technically , it's stating the obvious to write that Gance was very advanced , using his camera in a way most ( and in France all of them ) did not start using before the talkies when they did . Most of basic filming precepts came into as being innovations on particular Gance techniques . He had begun experimentation long before 1927 : the scene when Danton's , Robespierre ' s and Saint-Just ' s ghosts come back to " inspire " the hero to help lead the French on their way to freedom ( which was a naive idea if you know - and of course you do-what Bonaparte will become later ) directly comes from the wake of the dead from " J'Accuse " ( 1917 ) . To think that this director used the split screen ( scenes in the snow ) and the triple screen ( Italy ) . Nonetheless , the most impressive moment is the hero alone on his boat tossed by the raging sea , while l'Assemblée is caught in the whirlwind too ; a scene which was borrowed from Victor Hugo's " Quatre Vingt Treize " ( 93 ) " Napoleon " cast a giant shadow on the rest of Gance's work ; his two other silent major oeuvres " La Roue " and " j'Accuse " are still highly thought of , but it is considered polite to ignore most of his talkies . And he never stopped trying ; his first talkie was a sci fi movie ( " La Fin du Monde " 1930 ) whereas almost all his colleagues stayed in the filmed stage production style . He continued his experiments with " Un Grand Amour de Beethoven " where he invented the " subjective " sound . He often partially failed for lack of means : for his remake of " J'Accuse " ( 1938 ) he had to use shots of " La Fin du Monde " . But until the very end he never produced anything mediocre : his last work " Cyrano and D'Artagnan " was in verse . If someone tells you there was nothing interesting in the FRench cinema before Bresson or - yuk ! - Godard , set him down with a DVD player for a screening of " Napoleon " . It will blow his mind . About the actors Albert Dieudonné would play Napoleon again in Roger Richebé's fine comedy " Madame Sans - Gene " ( 1941 ) Gance told the young Suzanne Charpentier who played Violine ( Toulon segment ) she made him think of Poe's " Annabelle Lee " ; and she became Annabella . She would marry Tyrone Power .
A movie of redemption .	This Murnau work comes from the end of the silent era , and the miracle is that it needs nothing : it has everything . There are hardly a dozen of subtitles for a ninety - minute movie , and that's enough . The rest is the actors'sublime performances and Murnau's flawless directing . George O ' Brien and Janet Gaynor do not speak , and however , we can hear them , with all our heart , with all our soul . Their faces reflect what they endure , suffer and enjoy . Because this is not only a drama . Sometimes it turns to a true comedy . For me the scene in the church climaxes the work : the husband , desperate to a fault , and his wife , who saw her sincere love atrociously betrayed , " get marry " again and the priest's words will drive you to tears . Unlike " Nosferatu " , which took place in dark places , and before " tabu " which would be an hymn to the nature - in every sense of the word , and probably the key to WF Murnau's entire canon " - , " Sunrise " is a diurnal movie , beginning with a meeting with the husband and his mistress at the break of dawn , and ending in the deep of the night , but the very last picture brings back sunrise , which epitomizes a new beginning , a new christening , a redemption . And the man , crying and begging for pardon , it might be Murnau who thought his homosexuality was a crime - Nosferatu might be a metaphor as well , as the hero who abducts a priestess he's in love with in " tabu " - A true auteur opens up in his movies , if we can read between the lines . Murnau was , along with Fritz Lang , one of the two most influential forces of the expressionism .
Sublime film noir , sublime Widmark !	SPOILERS How sublime ! This is without a doubt , Jules Dassin's towering achievement . Had he only made this work , his name would deserve to be remembered forever . Richard Widmark will leave you on the edge of your seat ! How can an actor be so good ? Just compare him to Today's stars . Widmark's performance is one of these you never forget . A washout trying to make it big in the London underworld , he's some kind of mythomaniac , sometimes verging on madness , with an almost Shakespearian grandeur . His fate seems sealed when the story begins . We do know he won't work it out . A nightmarish bunch surrounds him and are like spiders watching a fly : the obese Francis L . Sullivan , a grotesque and fatty caricature who hates Widmark because his wife ( Withers ) has a crush on Widmark and provides him with funds ; this two-bit femme fatale , who thinks she can escape her wealthy fatso . the two wrestlers , fighting on the ring like animals ; there's nothing human in this fighting : you've never seen a thing like that . Almost every sequence should be studied in detail but I will only mention three of them : - After a bestial - an euphemism-fight , the old wrestler asks his son to close the window because he's cold , so cold . . But the window is closed and the son only pretends to obey . He dies in his arms . - Widmark's final run is the most beautiful ever filmed . Close shots , apocalyptic landscapes , impressive framings . It's the whole underworld against a single man , who cannot rely on anyone . Widmark's despair , hope against hope , his final fit of anger when he wants his girlfriend to get the reward , are among the best fil m noir scenes . - When Googie returns home and finds her hubby dead , she thinks she ' s free at last . But the horrible shrew is here , like a spider on her web , she's the sole legatee , and now she's got the prodigal woman under her thumb . There's another world , but we are only allowed to catch transient glimpses of it . People complain about Gene Tierney's rather small part on the site . She does not enter the underworld , the subcity , she stays away from it . She's Widmark's last chance , but as the movie begins , it's already too late . Only at the end , Tierney tries to walk across the mirror , only to discover it's a blind alley . Her character is not romantic enough , all she dreamed about was a cosy life in a sweet cottage in the heart of the country . She falls in her neighbor's arms-a neighbor who's got a money-box in the shape of a bank ! - After such a peak , the only way for Jules Dassin was down . And alas that was what happened : " du rififi chez les hommes " has still got a good reputation . The Melina Mercouri era brought at best entertaining works ( celui qui doit mourir ; Topkapi ) at best , dumb and vulgar comedies ( la loi ; never on Sunday ) at worst . " Dream of passion " his last one , was pretentious to a fault : trying to link Greek mythology ( Medea ) with the story of a woman who killed his children . He had not realized that " night and the city " with his monsters and his lonesome hero , whose fate is sealed was already a Greek tragedy , and so much so much more .
I say it again : horror is timeless .	The precedent user wrote that he saw old men crying while watching this film . Such is the strength of these pictures . Raymond Bernard's movie compares favorably with " All quiet on the western front " ( Lewis Milestone ) " Westfront 1918 " ( Pabst ) or even more recent works such as " paths of glory " . Bernard ' s approach ( transferring a best-seller for the screen ) was almost documentary . We know almost nothing about the three leads . The intermixing of the social classes ( there is a baker , a worker and a law student ) was not , as it has often been mooted , the main subject - as it was in Renoir's " la grande illusion " - of " les croix de bois " . Its purpose is , as the precedent user wrote , to show that horror is timeless . " If you do not get the military Cross , you'll get the wooden cross " the soldiers sing . The prologue tells it all : ranks of soldiers become ranks of crosses . In " J'accuse " ( Abel gance , 1938 ) , a soldier says that pretty soon there will not be enough wood to make crosses for the graveyards . Admirable sequences : - A soldier is singing a peaceful " Ave Maria " in a church but a terrifying camera movement reveals an improvised hospital with disabled soldiers . - A dead soldier has received a letter . One of his mates lays it down on his grave with a rose . - The central battle scene which lasts about 15 minutes . On the screen , a line appears " it lasted ten days " , then another one " ten days " , then in large characters " TEN DAYS " . - The soldiers taking refuge in a graveyard ( ! ) where one of them ( Charles Vanel ) is dying , cursing again and again his unfaithful wife , then breathing his forgiveness . - The student's death , with death rattles and cries of terror all around him ( I want my mum ! I do not wanna die ! ) . The ending does not use any music , which was rare at the time , and it increases tenfold strength and emotion . After watching this movie on TV , in 1962 , a WW1 old campaigner committed suicide . It speaks volumes about the strength of these pictures .
Reflection in greatness	First of all , this movie is an accurate rendition of MCCullers'novel . In France it's regarded as a " ciné-club " work , like " barefoot comtessa " or " the big carnival " . Reflections ' main topic is not perversity or sexual obsession , it's incommunicability . All these people live together , cut off from the world - the only scene that takes place outside the barracks is Alison's confinement in a mental hospital-they brush into one another but what they exchange is so superficial , so mundane that they spy or they cheat : Such is the case of Penderton who's fascinated by Williams : it's not simply an homosexual desire ; it's also the fear of getting old , fat and the longing for this youth that eludes him . Such is the case of Williams , watching Leonore in the nude , he who doesn't know women at all . The same goes for Alison who sees the soldier leave the Penderton's house whereas she's expecting her husband , Leonore ' s lover . Eleonora and Alison ' s husband don't spy , they cheat , they are the " normal " ones , so to speak . But at the end of the movie , the lover begins to understand Eleonora's emptiness , and because of his wife's death , maybe he's learning to communicate with ¨Penderton . . ( Spoiler ) But it's too late . The tragedy is here , Penderton kills the soldier , nobody was able to understand in time . The camera becomes crazy as Leonore screams ans shrieks with terror . Hats off , M . Huston . People who like the movie should read MCCullers ' excellent book .
The other side of the mirror .	Theresa Wright's character universe is cosy , harmless and safe . Her family is prepossessing . In a nutshell , her little town is some kind of paradise on earth where evil can't reach . Enter Uncle Charlie . See how Hitchcock introduces him : when the train enters the station , a black smoke signals an impending threat . ( the director will use this technique again in " the birds " : when Jessica Tandy comes back from the farm , after discovering a dead body , a black smoke is coming out of the exhaust pipe ) So , as Alice , the heroïne will discover the darker side of the mirror . Once proud of her beloved uncle , she becomes suspicious . In the most famous scene of the movie , she discovers her hero's misanthropy , who thinks the world is a big pigpen , where greedy women are staking their preys . A lot of people said ( among them François Truffaut ) that Hitchcock spoke through Charlie's voice . Some kind of self-portrait ! What puzzles and bewilders us is the way the great Master manipulates us , making us almost side with Charlie . Then horror grows ever greater when the wicked uncle tries to do away with his niece who has discovered he's a serial killer . The family's attitude is amazing : they do not seem to notice , they act as if they do not care , because Charlie is so handsome and charismatic . At the end of the movie , the dialogue almost disappear between the two leads , but the looks tell it all . I will not spoil the ending , I will content myself with saying it's ambiguous , and certainly not a happy one in the Hitchcock vein . Later , David Lynch will try to update " shadow " with his " blue velvet " : the innocence versus the wrong side of town . But Hitchcock had already achieved all that . Because , like the very few true creators of the seven art , he was not born to follow but , but to pioneer .
Spilzman ? What a beautiful name for a pianist . . .	In March 2003 , Roman Polanski's " the Pianist " ( 2002 ) pocketed three Oscars including best actor ( Adrien Brody ) and best director ( Roman Polanski ) . One month earlier , the ceremony of the French Oscars showered the movie with praise by attributing to it and his author similar prizes . Earlier in May 2002 , the festival of Cannes crowned it of the most prestigious prize : the deservedly Golden Palm . Already in 2002 and chiefly throughout 2003 , awards rained on Polanski's deeply moving piece of work and rightly so . It is a true return to form for him after an uneven career which started after the spooky " the Tenant " ( 1976 ) and wildly oscillated between duds ( Pirates , 1986 , Frantic , 1988 ) and palatable but not peerless works ( Death and the Maiden , 1994 , the Ninth Gate , 1999 ) . " The Pianist " helped to rekindle the flame that made such treasures , hallmarks in their own domains ( the wonderful " Rosemary's Baby " , 1968 in the fantastic or the fabulous " Chinatown " , 1974 in the film noir ) and could be a stalwart success in the movie with the Second World War as the backdrop . It is perhaps Polanski's most personal film to date and the one he has always wanted to shot , surely to exorcise traumatic memories haunting him since his childhood . Like his main protagonist , Wladyslaw Szpilman , he experienced the horror of the ghetto of Warsaw . To get his demons out of his head , he preferred to adapt for the screen Spilzman's memories , a genius pianist and a man who bit by bit lost his family and friends on whom he could rely , a man who was deprived of his piano and thus of his " raison d'être " . As Stefan Zweig says : " to read is to live " , well for him " to play is to live " . Even when he has the opportunity to play , he has to refrain himself . See the scene in which he has settled down to his flat . Before leaving him , the owner says to him : " please , don't make noise " . Polanski makes us share his craving for playing by putting his main protagonist in front of the sacred instrument ans plays us the music in Spilzman's head without the latter touches the keys . He was also a man who saw sorrow , pain and the unthinkable ( the sequences in which German officers and soldiers kill Jewish people give goose pimples because they're precisely unthinkable ) . Throughout his sufferings , chance didn't totally relinquish him : he was rescued at the last minute by a Polish policeman ( and a fellow of his brother ) who stopped him from going up in the train of death to Auschwitz . At this moment , he was saved from death but he lost his family . Then , he had to rely on his courage to survive and enjoyed the help of some fellows even if they absconded ( the woman Spilzman made the acquaintance at the beginning of the film and her husband who found him a flat ) . At last , the German officer at the end of the film , was his ultimate glimmer of hope . Roman Polanski shot his film with a classic but startling directing for the sake of detail and realism . It has a linear but inevitable progression which has the look of a downward spiral : the tightening of the restrictions on Jewish people which become increasingly harsher ( the armband to distinguish the Jewish from other peoples , then the delimitation and the encircling of the ghetto , the Jews chased away from their neighborhood and deported to the extermination camps ) and the least sign of certainty is nearly automatically blighted : " we have work certificates at last " sighs Spilzman's father . Alas ! Hopes blighted since just as he pronounces these words , a German officer asks them with other people to go outside . Some of them are killed while the others ( including Spilzman's family ) have to wait on a large square with thousands of others . Polanski also relates notable events with a minimum of means ( the fight and shooting sequences are often perceived from a balcony or a window ) . The second part of the film strongly recalls Polanski's murkiest hours extracted from his masterworks . For example , in his flat , Spilzman tries to be as quiet as possible and while searching for food in his kitchen and drops crockery . The noise makes his neighbor intervene and by giving the alarm in the building obliges him to flee once again . At this moment , we find one of Polanski's trademarks : the eerie neighbor who has a harmful influence on the hero and contributes to his or her fall ( the Castevet in " Rosemary's Baby " , the offbeat inhabitants of the building in " the Tenant " . In another extent , when Spilzman has to lurk in the destroyed ghetto ( the distant shot where we can see him trudging in the ruins of this apocalyptic landscape deserves to rank among Polanski's most notable shots in all his filmography ) , Polanski really places us amid a " in camera " in spite of the sprawling scenery . The filmmaker should also be thanked for having chosen Adrien Brody in the main role . He works wonders in a part which seemed to be tailor-made for him , a far cry from his cardboard character in M Night Shyamalan's " the Village " ( 2004 ) . He can act several persona in himself : a smart young man as well as a dirty and bearded tramp . His angular face , his acute and melancholic countenance stay with us for a long time . As for the German officers , they are often caricatured but ultimately Polanski eschews the trap of Manicheism which seemed to pervade the whole film thanks to the last sequences with the sympathetic German officer . Not all Nazis were beasts . . . Interspersed with either unbearable , either excruciating or either moving sequences and with striking shots , " the Pianist " has its place on the podium of Polanski's towering achievements . See it any costs ! Unfortunately it would seem that the flame began to flicker again given the lukewarm critics " Oliver Twist " met this year . The slump again ? Only time will tell . . .
Joe's puppet theater	The beginning and the end of the movie take place on a stage : a mortal feud between two characters , played by two splendid actors , directed by one of the giant of American cinema . It's hard to speak of the screenplay without spoiling the suspense , the action-packed story , the surprises waiting for you every step of the way . The two belligerents are diametrically opposite : Sir Olivier plays a local squire , full of disdain and smugness , he's wealthy and claims a noble pedigree . Michael Caine is what the French call " nouveau riche " , the most despicable breed of man to his proud opponent : worse , he ' s still working , as a posh hair-dresser at that ! Both are oozing hatred , and behind the automatons , we feel the tempers rise . Height of contempt , Olivier disguises Caine as a clown ! Anthony Shaffer's tour de force is rendered with gusto and virtuosity . It ' s a pity that it was to remain Mankiewicz's last work .
Abel Gance is a titan .	Titan is the right word for a director who is the French equivalent of a David Wark Griffith . He borrowed from Zola his famous sentence " I accuse ! " which comes from the Dreyfuss affair . ( people should try to see William Dieterle's " life of Emile Zola " which focuses on it ) . " J'accuse " is one of the most convincing and impressive pacifist film of the whole history of the seven art . I'm sure its first half-hour influenced Kubrik's " paths for glory " . There are three versions of it : the 1919 one , now forever lost , the 1922 one , with a new and watered-down ending , because of the military censors . Then the 1938 one , which is , to my mind , the best . The historical context was so threatening that Gance's movie seemed like a cry of terror . IT was terribly different of what was going on in the French cinema at the time : Marcel Carné used to hide his fears behind metaphors for instance The first half-hour depicts life in the trenches . Some lines are as provoking as you can imagine . A soldier : " soon there won't be enough trees to make crosses " . A little girl : " I want my dad to bring me back a gun to kill the war " . The armistice may come quick in the movie , but you must remember that Gance had a message to send to the world . Armistice scenes are astounding : a bugle call resounds while the camera shows a dying soldier . The crowds rejoice as the soldiers salute the dead in voices chocked by emotion . The aftermath of war as filmed by Gance had certainly a strong influence on later movies . The essential of the movie takes place 20 years later . A survivor , played by Victor Francen , had sworn his soldiers pals who died there would not be another war . Then he begins his incredible task . I want to insist on that : Victor Francen is so good , so sublime , that you must see this movie in French , with English subtitles . Dubbed in English , Francen ' s tour de force would lose most of its strength . You should hear him screaming " J'accuse ! J ' accuse ! " People around him thinks he's gone nuts . One breath-taking scene shows him breaking everything in sight . A sublime shot : he's just brought under control , then a gun hanging on a wall comes down and fall . For the last part of his movie , Gance outdoes himself ; using horror movie codes , stupefying ( for the time ) special effects , Francen's extraordinary tragedian skills , and an editing to rival David Wark Griffith's " intolerance " , he leads us to believe the unbelievable . The Dead awakening will haunt you long after you've seen the movie . The use of the Verdun memorial and its tower make me think of movies that were yet to come ! ( " 2001 " and its monolith , for instance ) French movies had never been better than in the thirties . I wish I could find a mathematical formula to prove it .
Before the flood .	That was one of the last French masterpieces of the thirties just before the war . Marcel Carné was accused of pessimism and the movie was quickly forbidden by the military censorship that used to say in 1940 : " if we've lost the war , blame it on " Quai des Brumes " " ( Carné's precedent movie . The director answered : " you do not blame a barometer for the storm " ) . " Le jour se lève " is , if it's possible , darker than its predecessor . From the very beginning , the hero , a good guy ( Gabin ) is doomed , his fate is already sealed , because the tragedy has already happened . That's why the movie is a long flashback . The memories are brought back on the screen with an astounding virtuosity by some elements of the set ( the teddy bear for instance ) . Only three main characters outside that of Gabin , the evil one ( Berry who was to play the devil in " les visiteurs du soir " 1942 ) , the lucid one ( Arletty ) and the ambiguous one ( Jacqueline Laurent ) . The latter providesthe only flaw of the movie : Laurent acts Françoise as the innocent pure girl , however Carné leaves no doubt about her relations with Berry . A remake was made by Anatole Litvak with Henry Fonda , Barbara Bel Geddes and Ann Dvorak ( who must have been studying Arletty's acting for a long while ) , called " the long night " with an absurd happy end . Needless to say , it's the French Carné movie that you've got to see !
Timeless .	Shall we call this western ? This is so moving , so harrowing and so tragic it would be a sacrilege . With a running time of 75 min , William Wellmann's work runs the whole gamut of emotions : hatred , contempt , madness , despair , indifference , you name it . Besides , the script is wonderfully written , depicting with a gutsy realism the supporting characters : the old man , the terrifying shrew , the renegade officer , his coward son - but who ' s the real coward in the end ? - , the Mexican , all are unforgettable . Between the lines , there are secret plots which could provide the substance for at least four other movies . Oddly , star Henry Fonda is nothing but a witness-except for the last sequences - and it's Dana Andrews ' extremely sensitive performance which will haunt the viewers - as well as his hangmen - long after the ending . Andrews ' portrayal is so moving that he almost outshadows the rest of the stellar cast , not a small feat : a western hero has rarely shown so much despair and dignity and his letter will move you to tears . It's anyway the sequence when he writes it that climaxes the movie , when most of the guys are guzzling or drinking , with the horrible fat woman ' s shrill chuckles as a sinister soundtrack . As Neil Young sings " would fade away so young / with so much left undone / remember me to my love I know I'll miss her " ( Powderfinger ) Do not miss this film ! It's a timeless classic .
Some like the fanfares d'amour hot .	In the thirties , Billy Wilder used to work in France , where he made his first film " mauvaise graine " , with Danielle Darrieux in 1934 . The following year , Richard Pottier made his " fanfare d'amour " . So Wilder probably heard about it . Here's a short summary of " fanfare d'amour " : Two comedians in dire straits , Jean and Pierre are chasing after any sort of work . This year , female combos are trendy . So they dress up as women and become part of " Dutch tulips " and all-women orchestra . Everybody take the night train . Jean and Pierre fall in love with Gaby and become rivals . But the girl has met Jean ( in a man's clothes ! ) and she's crazy about him . Besides the theater director ( a man ! ) falls also in love with Jean whom he mistakes for a woman ! There's no coincidence ; there are too many similarities between the 1935 " fanfare d'amour " and 1959 " some like it hot " . The former is impossible to see even in FRance where the telly never broadcasts it . Anyway , Wilder wins hands down : Richard Pottier was a moderately talented director , the American director a genius . Almost fifty years later , " some like it hot " remains my all-time favorite comedy . And as this not avowed remake does not need a third one , because I could hardly imagine someone doing a better work than Wilder . Nobody's perfect , but at his best he was .
A modern fable .	The cast for this fable is fabulous : two great American actors , Joseph Cotten and Bette Davis , two great Italian ones : Alberto Sordi and Silvana Mangano . Pepino and Antonia , two Italian proles are waiting , every summer , for " the old lady " , a wealthy and disabled American in order to fleece her . How ? By playing cards with her in a game called " lo scopino scientifico = the scientific broom sweep " We ' ll never know the name of " the old lady " . They always refer to her like that . In fact , she epitomizes capitalism . Bette Davis is wonderful and sadistically smiling all the way . Always with him , an old beau ( her former lover ? ) whom she enjoys humiliating ( brilliant Cotten ) . Against the Money Goddess , two miserable wops , ( pitiful Sordi and authoritarian Mangano ) always short of the readies , to whom the old one is always compelled to lend some dough to begin a game . And a game that will be the funniest ever filmed : the Italians begin to win , they win more , more and more and they want to call it a day ? But the old woman is not prepared to accept it . She wants to play more , even after a heart attack ! There's the rub : the money game is allowed to these who can go on and on indefinitely . That's Pepino and Antonia's downfall . They lose everything . As always in Luigi Comencini's movies , children are wiser than their parents . Cleopatra , Pépino's elder daughter realizes that it's a foolish game , what can do two proles against the most powerful bank ? You've got to refuse such a game and start a realist fight . As far the Old Lady is concerned , Cleopatra will opt for the final solution , and , maybe , her parents will come back to solidarity with their fellows . This is a must-see . This is a comedy of the first order , sometimes verging on tragedy , Luigi Comencini equals Billy Wilder here , that means a lot !
A film for the humiliated ones .	Claude Miller's most important work is today stronger than it was in 1976 . It's a must , the French cinema at its most ambitious , at its deepest , at its best . And nothing intellectual , nothing to do with the nouvelle vague pretentiousness , " la meilleure façon de marcher " is accessible to all those who have eyes and ears . It features one of the strongest actors confrontations which can be seen on a screen : the sadly missed Dewaere and the subtle Bouchitey literally live their part , they are so real we have the very rare feeling of knowing them intimately . So intense Bouchitey's performance was that afterward he did not get the roles he did deserve : the directors stayed with the picture of a " drag queen " . " La meilleure façon de marcher " pits the virile macho boy against the intellectual sensitive guy . It brings out the mechanics of the humiliation . It deals with the demanding subject of our " skeletons in the closet " , our hidden odd habits , all that we want to hide from the outside world . It would be too simple to consider Philippe's one ( dressing up as a woman ) as a very rare occurrence . " I'm sure I could find something in your room " he screams to Marc , who has discovered his secret and then makes him his punching bag . In a world in seclusion such as a boys holiday camp in 1960 , where women are absent ( with the exception of Philippe's fiancée , who only appears in the second part ) , there are secrets beyond any door : from the children who hide a pornographic paper under a Mickey Mouse comic strip to the epileptic counselor who ' s got dirty pictures under his pillow . And the ones wholook " normal " , like the hairy Marc , are they as " straight " as they seem ? Marc is probably in love with Philippe and as he cannot bring himself to take the plunge , he humiliates him to death . Hatred rises , reaching unbelievable heights , culminating in this unbearable scene when Marc forces Philippe to eat his own vomit . The dialog is close to perfection : full of allusions , of threatening sentences , of veiled accusations ; and what is left unsaid is all the more disturbing . Most of the time , we really feel ill-at - ease . That's why Claude Pieplu's part is so necessary : a comic relief , his suggestion box is irresistibly funny . Deprived of these hilarious sequences , the movie would be desperate . But Claude Miller wanted his demeaned characters to rebel ; the first one in the pool where the one of the counselors says f . . . . . you to the director . But the best comes when Philippe , in his woman's dress ( A Spanish dancer ) invites Marc , dressed up as a toreador , to dance . You should notice that in Marc's room , there was a poster of a toreador fighting a bull . " What's making me itch , is making you itch too ! " he cries out as his persecutor pretends to find it funny but in fact has to force himself to laugh . Miller's intelligence shines in the last sequence too when he puts his characters back in " normal " life . The two " enemies " act as if nothing happened . Their behaviour stems from the establishment which does not know deviancy . Now that Philippe exists socially speaking , he's respectable , even if he does not plan to get marry - as Marc is - , he's no longer a victim . Generally you find punching bags in schools , holiday camps or barracks , in places where frustration leads to search for someone to spit at ( generally people who do not like sports ) . A film that cannot be praised too highly .
Amnesia , Freud and Dali .	Could this one be the most underrated of all Hitchcock's American movies / What ? only 7 . 6 ? And however , you've got plenty of movies for the price of one ! Come on , wake up , and give this triumph its due ! 1 . It's a mystery movie : Peck suffers from amnesia , he may or may not be a criminal , only snatches of memory come back and he can't put them together . Some clues appear , the " lines " vision is the most famous . 2 . It's a movie full of suspense ; great scenes : the letter which Bergman tries to hide , the news papers at the railway station . 3 . It's a chase movie : Bergman and Peck escape from the nursing home and search a shrink's colleague help . 4 . It's a dreamlike movie : not only for the Dali's - too often unfairly dismissed-dream . Actually , the whole story is wrapped in a supernatural , eerie atmosphere . 5 . It's a romantic story : the scenes outside the nursing home in country landscapes are wonderfully and lovingly filmed . 6 . It's a movie of redemption : Bergman falls in love with her patient , and she's got to struggle - thanks Mister Freud - to help Peck to recover hisfull memory . 7 . It's a technically astounding movie , as in every Hitch movie : it features the shortest color scene ( it's a black and white movie ) in cinema . And I won't tell you when it appears , watch out . 8 . It's a movie from the Master of suspense , and I trade you " a lapse of memory " , " shattered " and " the third day " for " Spellbound " ! It deserves to be in the top 250 !
The things you own ends up owning you .	What's fascinating in David Fincher's work , is that it seems we deal with an auteur . He created his own universe , a nocturnal and filthy one , and a bit misogynous too : it's glaring in this movie ; outside Bonham-Carter-made look ugly and dressed as a 1977 punk - , only a black woman has a line to say . Almost everywhere , it is a man's man's world where no women appear even in the settings . This movie was influenced by famous and not-so-famous predecessors : of course " Dr Jekill and Mister Hide " to which Bonham Carter hints at in the restaurant , " a clockwork orange " , " rebel without a cause " " bad influence " and Joel Schumacher's " falling down " , the latter seems with hindsight to have been overlooked and underrated . So why does this movie seem so original ? it owes a lot to E . Norton ( more than Pitt ) who had already overshadowed R . Gere in " primal fear " . Here he plays a very strange kind of peeping tom : watching mental suffering ( therapy groups , dealing almost essentially with male problems ) , then physical sufferings , eventually enduring them . Does he do that as he would opt for yoga , Buddhism or psychotherapy , to escape from a routine work ? To get free from the material world ? As Pitt says " the things you . . . " The problem is that Norton does not seem to be so free . At first , he may be , when he's only a simple spectator-and the scenes in the restaurant and in the projection room are peaks of black humor - , but , he's potentially a Stevensonian hero . There's a big coup de theatre in this movie , a breathtaking and unexpected twist , à la " sixth sense " , " Jacob's ladder " or " Usual suspects " , and it's difficult to comment this movie : all you say is questioned when you KNOW . Of course I won't reveal it , but I think it's the biggest flaw of the movie . Unlike the three mentioned works , this does not seem logical , because of the lack of " clues " : the only one , regarding Bonham-Carter , is not really convincing . The last picture seems now terrifying .
Delon's lost great performance , Losey's lost masterpiece .	CONTAINS SPOILERSA doctor's office . A woman stands here in the nude . He's no longer a doctor but a vet , examining the scared patient as if she's a cow . " She might belong to those inferior races . A dubious case . " He mumbles to his nurse . " Monsieur Klein " is rarely mentioned when they praise Joseph Losey . It could be his finest achievement , the success of a work fascinated by decay , from " the gypsy and the gentleman " to " the servant " . Like the heroes of the two mentioned works , when the movie begins , Monsieur Klein ( Alain Delon , whose performance is memorable , anyway it's his last great part ) is a bon vivant . A bourgeois vulture who buys paintings and other works of art for next to nothing from the Jews during the Occupation in France . One day , he receives a news paper called " les informations juives " . Thus he discovers he's got a namesake . At first puzzled , Klein becomes more and more involved in a search of this man , his doppelganger , his twin , who plays cat and mouse with him . Both realist and dreamlike , not to say nightmarish , à la Kafka , and metaphysical , à la Borges , as the precedent user wrote , Klein's quest is both mad and logical , absurd and passionate . A sublime sequence shows Delon in a crowded café : a waiter ' s calling " Monsieur Klein " ; first he does not care because he knows " they " call the " other " , but finally , he asks the waiter who tells him that the person who called " Monsieur Klein " looked just like him . Then the baffled Delon sees his reflection in a mirror . In 1942 , in Paris , there are ominous plans . In the desert streets , in the small early hours , French gendarmes silently move , as if they are rehearsing for something better left unsaid . The color movie almost turns black and white in a riveting cinematographic tour de force . Robert Klein becomes like Lewis Caroll's Alice in the well . He could avoid the fall , but he will not . His world , now that he's a suspect for the police , is collapsing . It's his turn to sell his valuable properties for a song . In the vel ' d'hiv ' ( winter velodrome ) , the roundup of Jews had begun . Klein could escape , because his lawyer found the papers that proved that " he ' s got no Jewish blood in his veins " , but he would like to know this other himself and he would follow him even if it were into hell . It was indeed , as the train slowly moves off , heading for the concentration camps . A first-class work , " Monsieur Klein " leaves the audience numb and ill-at-ease . A topflight supporting cast ( Suzanne Flon , Jean Bouise , Michel Lonsdale , Jeanne Moreau ) shines .
What a lovely war !	In America , this film is underrated . In my native France , it's praised by intellectuals , and it's part of what we call " ciné-club movies " . In high school , this very year , my son studied passages from the book as well as scenes from the movie . Trumbo's movie might be the strongest condemnation of war that had ever been filmed . Using two colors - and even three - , toying with present and past ( could we speak seriously of future ? ) , he makes the dream of such great predecessors as Jean Renoir ( la grande illusion ) come true : War is impossible , because how can a wise race could tolerate such an horror ? Three colors indeed : - the bleak black and white in the hospital , where asceticism rivals the best of Robert Bresson . - the luminous , radiant scenes of Johnny's past , old forties and fifties color are constantly in evidence in those memories that recall Wyler's or Ford's heyday . - the dark and threatening color that envelops the nightmares in the ruins where Johnny tries to catch up with his only love . Johnny is helpless , his loneliness is more frightening than you'll ever experiment . God can't hear you call . The merciful Jesus of Sunday school whom Johnny's mother taught him to fear and to trust has disappeared with Donald Sutherland on a runaway train . Now it's a deaf and dumb Greek divinity - check the shots of the surrealistic nightmare - , who repeats in your suffering body , in your tormented soul , in your mind on fire , that you cannot escape your inhumane fate . The nurse provides solace for a while . She tries to communicate with him . She believes in the dignity of man , be he a peace of flesh . It encompasses masturbation as well as simply saying " merry Xmas ! " But for all the others , particularly for the officer , he's someone ( something ? ) you must hide , you must gag , because his world has gotten no place for a human being who represents such a slur on his pride and his glory . Johnny got a raw deal . . . .
The French fifties were great !	It has been often mooted that the Nouvelle Vague was the Second Coming , saving French cinema from tediousness , routine , ennui , mediocrity , you name it . So on the site n+x comments on Godard and co , and only one on this Duvivier jewel . It's when one sees such marvels one realizes all that the New Wave has deprived French cinema of : the very substance of a film , the telling of a story . And Duvivier comes first for that ; here he transcends the film made up of sketches he brilliantly pioneered in the thirties with " un carnet de bal " ( 1937 ) : he uses now intertwined plots with gusto , and Paris places with taste . All his characters are endearing , and he runs the whole gamut : the young girl coming from her province ( Brigitte Auber who will be in Hitchcock's " To catch a thief " ) ; you're going to say it's a cliché , but wait and see , you " ll never guess what fate is in store for her , it defies conventions ; the old lady and her cats ( A marvelous Sylvie ) , trying to make ends meet ; the children who find themselves back on a boat alone on the Seine ; the student who always fails ( Daniel Gelin ) ; a sculptor gone mad ; a working man , celebrating his silver wedding , and more , and more . . . . And all that happens in the space of one day under Paris sky ( sous le ciel de Paris ) , all these lives run into each other , or don't , making a whole , under Duvivier's magic wand . Because magic is the only name that can describe such a treat . Orson Welles used to admire Duvivier , how I understand him !
The greatest French director ?	Some will say Renoir . Some will say Carné . Some will say Clouzot . Some will say . . yuk . . Godard . . I will say Duvivier . His career spans half a century , from the silent era to the sixties , full of detours and retreats . But when he broke through - and his epiphanies were many and various , ( there are masterpieces all along his career ; never until the very end he produced anything mediocre ) he made brilliant films . But those precious years just before WW2 were justly looked upon as the best French cinema that had ever been . And Duvivier was among the creme de la creme , producing during this golden era a chef-d'oeuvre a year ( la belle equipe : 1936 ; la fin du jour : 1939 ) . But 1937 was Duvivier's year : he made not one but two classics : " un carnet de bal " and " Pepe le Moko " both rated four stars by Leonard Maltin . " Pepe le Moko " ' s screenplay is so simple it's a wonder Duvivier could make such a masterwork from such a script . More than the story itself , it's the atmosphere which matters , and a bevy of colorful characters surrounding the hero , played by the director's favorite actor Jean Gabin : one often forgets that it's Duvivier who launched Gabin , the most famous French star of the era ( and maybe of all time ) in such works as " la bandera " ( 1935 ) and " la belle equipe " ( 1936 ) . " Pepe " takes place in Algiers , in some kind of ghetto " la casbah " . the hero is a gangster who reigns in this underground world , but we soon discover he is actually a prisoner : a cop , like a spider on its web , is waiting for him to leave his refuge to arrest him . Duvivier's camera work is dazzling , using panoramic shots which depicts la casbah as a maze ; when Pepe finally leaves the place , the background behind him becomes blurred , then merges with the sea , the gate of freedom . More than a gangster story , it's a tale of nostalgia . Pepe falls in love with a woman ( Mireille Balin ) " from the outside world " while talking with her about different places in Paris , ending with la place blanche where they both belong . There ' s the harrowing sequence where a has-been chanteuse ( Frehel ) plays one of her records on a gramophone , thinks of her glorious past , and sings the chorus with her youth's voice as her tears fall down . There are also exciting film noir sequences : the informer ( Charpin ) , more and more terrified , as the room fills with men ready to kill him ; his death against a player piano ; Pepe behind the gates in the harbor . All the final scenes had probably a strong influence on Carol Reed's " odd man out " ( 1947 ) Remade as " Algiers " by John Cromwell ( 1938 ) , Charles Boyer taking on Gabin's part .
If you love someone deep enough , anything is possible .	The fifties will remain Minnelli's heyday . During this decade , there are at least four masterpieces in his filmography : " lust for life " , " tea and sympathy " , " some came running " , and definitely the crème de la crème of his musicals " Brigadoon " . " Brigadoon " is perfection itself , and only " singing in the rain " can equal it , as a fifties musical : sparkling colors , dreamlike landscapes , terrific score which encompasses Irish bagpipes , peerless cast ( Gene Kelly and Cyd Charisse , it's a dream come true ) , and , most of all , a wonderful script . A solid script is often lacking in musicals : that's the drawback , of , say , " An American in Paris " , which is a feast for the eye , but does not completely satisfy , because it has not got a true story . The same goes for " band wagon " . Some scenes are at least five or seven years ahead of their time : the chase in the woods , which Minnelli treats like a ballet , predates " West Side Story " . The wedding , with the torchlight procession , is impressive as well . Brigadoon story looks like a fairy tale , but it leaves a bitter taste in the mouth . The village may be the fountain of perpetual mirth , but it indicates man's failure in his pursuit of happiness . Unlike other musicals , behind its cheerful characters , the movie hides a " lost paradise " feel . The return to the modern world is impossible to the hero , ( the passage from Brigadoon to NYC skyscrapers climaxes the movie , as Charisse keeps on repeating " any day . . any night . . I love you . . . I love you " ) Reality is an impossible world for many a Minnelli character : in " lust for life " , the painter ( Van Gogh ) takes refuge in his art ; in " some came running " , the prostitute lives in a dream , thinking the writer loves him ; in " home from the hill " , the hero escapes from his wealthy milieu and becomes a worker . " Brigadoon " has few predecessors , only Henry Hathaway's " Peter Ibetson " ( 1935 ) and Frank Capra's " lost horizon " ( 1937 ) can be mentioned . Francis Ford Coppola's rather obscure " Finian's rainbow " ( 1968 ) might have tried to recapture some of the magic of " Brigadoon " , but this kind of Magic , like the village , happens every century .
Don't look back .	Tennessee Williams is perhaps America's finest playwright of the last ( ! ) century . He used to say he did not like Mankiewicz's treatment of his work . But in my humble opinion , it ranks along with kazan's " streetcar named desire " and Brooks ' " cat on a hot tin roof " as the peak of M . Lanier's adaptations . First of all , there are the actors : Katherine Hepburn , the grande dame of American cinema . Her rendition of Mrs Venable is stunning . When she delivers the lines of her famous " Encatadas " monologue ( " and the sand all alive , all alive as the hatched sea-turtles made their dash for the sea . . " ) , she's so convincing that we do see the whole scene ! There are skeletons in her closet , so she does not want to look back , and does not want her niece Catherine to remember . Traps are everywhere : the carnivorous plants in her garden have an equivalent in the old doctor's study : mundane flypaper ! Elizabeth Taylor ( Catherine ) , who has perhaps never been better , epitomizes scorned innocence : this character is very important for Williams because it echoes his sister's lobotomy . Fortunately , after a real catharsis , one of the Mankiewicz's peaks ( Catherine's memories come back , and they finally use the full screen as she screams " nobody , nobody on earth could possibly believe it ! ) " And however , we do ! Because of the masterful actor direction , we are forced to believe the unbelievable . The shrink , Monty Clift , who was to feature in John Huston's " Freud " ( sic ) a couple of years later , succeeds in bringing Catherine back to life , although his face looks tormented . ( He was disfigured in an accident ) Mercedes MacCambridge provides good support in a thankless part . " Suddenly last summer " , in a nutshell : Freud meets Gothic drama meets Greek myths . Don't miss it !
A genesis	With " David Golder " , Duvivier the great director , the master of the darker side of the human soul was born . It contained the seeds of all that would be developed afterward . Harry-Baur gives a powerful performance of a wealthy Jewish businessman ; he is so good that the actresses seem mediocre by comparison . David Golder thinks that money can buy everything ; he does not want to help his associate who takes his own life ( " I do not care " ° ; his wife and his daughter live in luxury and would not imagine it any other way : see the daughter stroke the banknotes which her dad won for her . She displays no love , no tenderness , no human emotion at all . Later when she comes back to her desperate father , she will have the same behavior . And then David has a heart attack ! The missus is not prepared to accept poverty . While the man is lying on his bed she begins to tell him he may die soon and she has not a Franc to her name . A masterful scene where David grabs her by the throat and almost strangles her with her valuable necklace : " What about that ? " he thunders . There's a similar scene in " Chair de Poule " ( 1963 ) when Catherine Rouvel tries to worm information from a wounded bedridden Robert Hossein ; and Golder's shrew is not unlike Danielle Delorme's abominable mother in " Voici le temps des assassins " ( 1956 ) Like many Duvivier heroes , Golder , although a ruthless financier , is still a human being . When he loses the power that gives money , he thinks that his daughter's love will make up for it . Unfortunately there's no place for love in a world where rapaciousness and greed run rampant . Duvivier's blackness is absolute disembodied blackness . David will go to his grave a broken man . on his death bed , his sufferings are so intense we feel them within our body and our soul . Why such a poor rating ? Do people think that there's anti-Semitism in the film ( and in the novel ) ? There isn't : Harry Baur's wife was a Jew . Based on Irene Nemirovsky's novel ; a writer who sadly was to die in the concentration camps .
twilight of the gods	Probably Duvivier's pre-war peak . His pessimism reaches here such unbelievable heights that we're brooding all along the movie and long after having seen it . The subject is a depressing one : some kind of " sunset boulevard " of the theater . Located in an old people's home for actors and actresses , most of them short of the readies . Humiliating to a fault , for those who have been legendary figures of the theater , once gods for an ungrateful public . Who remembers them now ? Who remembers Norma Desmond / Gloria Swanson ? Duvuvier's depiction of the house is cruel and ruthless : two old residents fighting because one of them had a bigger piece of sausage , shots in close-up of the tired , wrinkled , wizened faces , spiteful gossips , wickedness . . . A menace hangs over the house as a sword of Damocles : their house might close soon , because they're running out of money , and they might be dispersed . Because , if the relationships ooze hatred , contempt , jealousy and rancor , the greatest disgrace would be to end up in a ordinary old people's home with the riffraff . Hope against hope survives among in this God-forsaken world : An old Don Juan ( Jouvet ) thinks that he's always a ladykiller . An actor ( Michel Simon ) who was all his life an understudy tries to shine on the stage for an ultimate night , but fails dismally . Another one , ( Victor FRancen , the hero of " j'accuse " ) whose wife has always been unfaithful ( she used to sleep with Jouvet ) , tries to end his life with dignity . " La fin du jour " ( the end of the day " ) is A hard time for everybody , but particularly for those who ' ve been adored by the masses , downfall is unbearable . Forgetting for once his legendary pessimism , Duvivier closes this somber meditation by a funeral : during this twilight glow scene , all the actors and actresses all stand together to say goodbye to one of them . Francen delivers a speech full of nostalgia and warmth . The show must go on , long live the show . And long live Duvivier ! ! ! ! !
A saint is a nuisance to live with at home .	" Viridiana " is a sequel to " Nazarin " ( not meant pejoratively ) : both want to be saints , both are compelled to leave religion ( Viridiana is raped by her uncle and cannot become a nun ) . Both will be laïc saints . So Viridiana takes on a bunch of beggars in her home , and tries to educate them by putting them to work . But it's too late , they are rotten to the core , and it's not long before they realize that working is pointless when you have a nice lady to take care of you . In direct contrast to Viridiana , we have her cousin : he's a realist man . For him , Viridiana's charity amounts to nothing . Bunuel proves this right with the memorable scene of the dog : what's the point of saving a poor dog when there are thousands of poor dogs in the world ? Viridiana's cousin , unlike her , does not renounce the pleasures of life and he takes good care of his desirable property . Bunuel reaches in this movie a paroxysm of violence , satire and grand art . The beggars have a banquet , and Bunuel unleashes his anticlericalism : at the table , the mendicants stand still , parodying Leonardo's the Last Supper . Then Viridiana is raped while a gramophone is playing , screaming Hendel's Messiah . Like Nazarin who's got to come back to reality , and who is offered a pineapple ( sexual symbol ) , Viridiana seems to agree to be part of a ménage à trois with her cousin and the servant as she begins to play cards with them . Needless to say , Spain censors were horrified and Bunuel would never make another film in his homeland .
A true story	This austere , black and white movie might be Truffaut's peak . Recalling sometimes , in its spirit , Penn's " miracle worker " , the work suffuses with humanism , belief in dignity of man . The child , for Truffaut , is a frail human being , who needs ( and deserves ) education . Hence , some critics called " wild child " the positive side of " the 400 blows " . Perhaps so , but , in my humble opinion , the 1969 effort is much stronger than the rather academic first attempt . Following Doctor Itard's report with absolute fidelity , and portraying him with gusto , Truffaut is a much better actor here than he ' s in Spielberg's " close encounters " . The production is pared down to the essential , using old-fashioned techniques , recalling silent movies . I do not think , like M . Maltin , that it " loses steam half-way through " . On the contrary , the most important scene in the whole movie comes in the last third : Victor , the wild child , unfairly punished , rebels . He can see the difference between good and bad . Might it be possible that moral conscience should be innate ? Does society , as Rousseau believed it pervert man ? At the beginning of the movie , remember how cruel was our civilized populace to the different child : showed in public , like a queer animal , to make dough . All teachers in the world should see this masterpiece . NB : In France , in primary school , a lot of pupils read Victor's story .
it's hard to be a saint in the country	Alongside the biggest artistic achievements in French cinema of the fifties such as Henri-Georges Clouzot's " Les Diaboliques " ( 1955 ) or Julien Duvivier's " Voici Le Temps Des Assassins " ( 1956 ) , one has to reserve a first-class place for Robert Bresson's third long-feature film where he proves that Georges Bernanos ' universe is his . I've read Bernanos ' novel and it was a perilous task to transpose it on the screen for it was a rich , undulating book . Bresson's piece of work makes it justice in its own special way and deeply involves the audience in the battle led by this young priest to keep the faith . Although the filmmaker later disowned this jewel because it didn't really answer his cinematographic demands , the most constitutive elements of his cinematographic approach are already here : a straightforward style , an austere black and white cinematography , a rigorous , hieratic directing which give many shots , the form of little paintings . Before he revolutionized the Seventh Art , Bresson cut his teeth as a painter and kept some principles and techniques for his vision of cinema . The actors or should I say the " amateur models " answer to Bresson's demands and thus adopt a deliberately bland acting even if Claude Laydu was a professional actor . He'll hold a secondary role in André Cayatte's " Nous Sommes Tous Des Assassins " ( 1952 ) and will be later the founder of a popular TV program for children : " Bonne Nuit Les Petits " . Let's also hail the shrewd narrative process which sees the priest write down in a textbook , his actions and his thoughts and the next shot showcases the written action . Through the young priest's inner turmoil and his confrontations with the inhabitants of the village , it's quite easy to detect one of Bresson's recurrent themes : the opposition between a subjective mind and a cruel objectivity . The young priest of Ambricourt is rejected by all the inhabitants who later will treat him as an alcoholic whereas he only asks for integration . The Count who seems at first on his side will later dismiss him after the death of the countess . And in the calvary lived by the young priest with its grueling tests , one inevitably thinks of the Way of the Cross experienced by the Christ . It's all the more evident as there are strong analogies like the moment when the priest falls in the muddy country and is received in Seraphita's home . In the end , a spiritual dimension shrouds a film full of grace and an emotion seizes the audience . You will never be able to exhaust all the treasures that Bresson's monument conceals . Like good wine , it improves with age and this is one that requires multiple viewings .
I want to die . . .	Last year and at the dawn of 2006 , Alejandro Amenabar's fourth film garnered prestigious prizes all over the world . It collected at least 50 rewards ! I can only agree with these rewards . It is perhaps proof positive that the versatile Amenabar is more than ever a filmmaker to follow very closely . An inkling one had already suspected at the screening of " Tesis " ( 1996 ) in which he had ventured in the formidable world of the " snuff-movies " ( beware French users ! " Formidable " doesn't mean " terrific " at all but " dreadful " ) is that Amenabar doesn't fear to tackle to difficult topics according to different reasons a little like John Frankenheimer in his sixties heyday . Besides , the meandering " Abre Los Ojos " ( 1997 ) had a strong resemblance with Frankenheimer's " Seconds " ( 1966 ) . Both gave startling results . " The Others " ( 2001 ) harked back to the Gothic fantastic of the sixties ( " the Innocents " 1961 , " the Haunting " 1963 ) and earned Amenabar worldwide recognition . Abetted by an astounding Nicole Kidman , he made us shiver with a minimum of means but a maximum of brilliance . Once again , Amenabar embarked in uncharted waters for him with a delicate topic : melodrama and the right to euthanasia . When one knows that in Spain , the official position of Spanish government about this is adamant , it underlines and reinforces Amenabar's ambitious side . An important part of Spanish population seems to be undetermined facing this problem . In the film , when Ramon strives to heighten public awareness through the publication of his book which sums up his motto : " life is a right , not an obligation " , it's a courageous move from him . " Mar Adentro " distinguishes itself from Amenabar's three previous works by its change of register . It's a more intimate and placating one but it eventually walks a fine line with these works because it revolves like them around death . It seems that Amenabar found his set of themes . What he had already done in " Abre Los Ojos " , he does it again here : he doesn't do what the audience might expect in the treatment of his topic . Where a Hollywood director would have followed a well-defined way while favoring the inevitable case , Amenabar is more astute at this game : he grants it only a minimal importance in his scenario because he knows that Ramon's fight to attain death is already lost at the beginning of the film . Amenabar also appears to take a mischievous delight in referring to codes and conventions of the subject to better divert them through maverick schemes like for example when it comes to feed Ramon the corny chorus that life is worth living . One of the most memorable moments of the film is the conversation between the priest in the kitchen and Ramon in his bedroom with the assistant of the priest as the intermediary point . It is sheer genius and may underline Amenabar's anticlerical spirit which one had already guessed in " the Others " . But Amenabar also quietly refuses a good pack of constricting conventions . There's nothing maudlin or morbid in his treatment of Ramon's last years of life and he also excluded useless pathos from his work . He spends the major time of the film , in Ramon's isolated house , a little like in " the Others " , surrounded by a green , green country with the sea in the end . A perfect backdrop for his intentions . Obviously , Amenabar was much more interested by what went on in the head of his main protagonist and his relationships with his close relatives . " Mar Adentro " is a hymn to life and love . One of Ramon's first inner thoughts , the aerial shot which flies over Spanish country to land on the beach and find Ramon and Julia kissing is a perfect example of it . Amenabar refuses to feel sorry for Ramon's fate and transcends his bedroom as a lively place . Besides , Ramon lived a nearly full life before his accident . He was a sailor and went all around the world . The intensity of his looks , the power of his imagination and his lines with sometimes a deadpan humor are enough to fill the room with an uplifting and lively aura and the film with a lyrical whiff . An amazing contrast for a lucid man who seems to have lost his taste for life . Although he has been standing still in his room for many , many years and despite his wish to die , Ramon is still able to talk about life and to love . I'd like to raise the fact that each of his apparitions is filmed without flashy effects . Julia and Rosa are both enamored with him and will finally understand Ramon's desire through a deep love to him . Still on the plus side , Amenabar's piece of work doesn't cease to surprise the audience through its constant humor which suffuses the whole movie . It could almost be worth the price of admission . And as usual , Amenabar's input in his work is total . He signed the evocative score and used a splendid cinematography . And who else but Mateo Gil could help him to pen the immaculate scenario ? Such a seminal piece of work wouldn't be complete without the bunch of actors Amenabar hired . He excels in the directing of actors . Each character's persona fits each of them like a glove . Belén Rueda as a lawyer is far from the Hollywood cardboard character . Lola Duenas is a Rosa full of freshness and vivacity . But render unto Caesar the things which are Caesar's and to praise Javier Bradem's extraordinary acting . Amenabar's own standpoint on euthanasia eventually remains sitting on the fence and prefers to let the viewer think about this problem . This is the fourth magnum opus in a short but immaculate filmography . So far , the block for " the young prodigy of Spanish cinema " ( a flattering but deserved moniker ) is an unknown notion to him . If everything is alright for Amenabar and if he manages to keep his self-confidence , imagine the look his career could have in several years . Yes , more power to him !
When my ship comes in .	Restored with a very nice score , " the crowd " hasn't aged a bit . The topic is as relevant today as it was in 1928 . Do have a look at the first pictures of " the apartment " ( 1960 ) or the last ones of " working girl " ( 1988 ) and you'll know what I mean . John Sims tries to beat the crowd , this crowd that follows him everywhere , at work , in the streets , at the fair or on the beach . He doesn't even realize his condition : you should see him laughing at the people on the street , behaving like sheep . It's always someone else , his wife says , take a look at yourself . The secondary characters are wonderfully depicted : the well-padded buddy , the mother and brothers-in-law always contemptuous , always putting John down . Lots of sequences are memorable , now comic , now tragic : the tiny flat where even the bed must be folded , the huge office where employees are doing the same job at the same time , where everybody acts alike when they leave their job , like some kind of ballet . John Sims is the embodiment of the American dream , but it has an universal appeal . When he was born , his father promised he would have good prospects , he would become someone big . King Vidor does not show the relationship father / son cause the father disappears when John is still a boy , but we can easily imagine it . So Sims thought NY was depending on him , and he discovers that he will be a wash-out all his life . If it weren't for his little boy who still believes in him ( Vittorio de Sica will remember it for his " bicycle thief " , he would throw himself under a train . The cinematography is prodigious ; two examples : The father is dead , the boy is climbing a stair : stunning high angle shot , enhancing his awful pain . On the contrary , the skyscrapers are filmed from below , showing how lost a human being can feel in this steel and glass world . A detail : the hysterical / historical joke at the fair will be used again by the Beatles themselves in their " magical mystery tour " home-made movie . 1928 : the silent era was coming to an end but we had not heard the last of it .
Dedicated to you Oystein . . . .	. . . you who love the French culture and without whom I could not have written these comments on Duvivier's earlier films which I had not seen for years . " Maria Chapdelaine " is Canadian , you're going to tell me . But Duvivier almost treated Hémon's book as a musical . And all the songs we can hear are part ( with the exception of " Alouette " , pure Canadian stuff , but which is popular in France too ) of the French national heritage . Songs of love " A la Claire Fontaine " , François Paradis's favorite , country songs ( " Marianne s'en Va-t-Au - Moulin " ) , naughty ditties ( the delightful " Son Voile qui Volait " ) , Christmas carols ( " Minuit Chrétiens " ( aka " O Holy Night " ) and " IL est Né Le Divin Infant " ) and more more . . . . More a chronicle than a real story , " Maria Chapdelaine " is one of the rare Duvivier movies which do not feature villains . No evil here but people who have to struggle hard all their life against a hostile nature ( the horse falling in the snow is a beautiful metaphor ) ; the only culture they get is religion ( " Maria , if you say 1 , 000 " Ave Maria " before Xmas , your dream will come true " ) or superstition ( the bonesetter ) . Gabin's first part ( and it will not be the last ! ) in a Duvivier's movie : Duvivier really MADE Gabin . Jean-Pierre Aumont appears in a part of a young man who has moved to the city . The cinematography is dazzling ( even is the copy is as awful as you said , Oystein ) : they say Ingmar Bergman used to dissect Duvivier's works .
A fabulous quartet .	First scene : the camera searches the house , a luxury one , we hear a clock ticking . And then Agnes , in her bed , sleeping peacefully . We watch her awakening , we see her face grimace with pain . The respite is over : cancer is always here , stalking her . Visually , it's harrowing . With Agnes , to help her cope with her terrible fate , three women : Agnes's two sisters and a servant . The four actresses are a fabulous quartet , you cannot tell which one is the best , they are all accomplished thespians . Death is the main topic of Bergman's movie . It's not the only one as further acquaintance shows . Agnes's cries are heart-wrenching and may be too much for some spectators . But is there another way of showing the naked death , the pointless sufferings and a God who does not heed your call ? The priest is helpless , muttering his prayers and praising Agnes after her death . The sisters seem to feel for the sick person , they pamper her and they read her " mister Pickwick " . After Agnes ' s death , the movie takes a sudden turn , becoming supernatural : the dead woman calls her sisters , but , selfishness or fear , they turn their back on her . Only the humble servant will have pity on her poor mistress . Then Bergman reveals us the true nature of the two sisters : they hate each others , for a while , it seemed that they felt drawn together by the common misfortune , but their futile problems , their greed and their contempt for the servant whom they treat like a dog before leaving the mansion with their husbands . They hurry to leave this house which represents not only Agnes's death , but the certainty of their own death . The last pictures are a relief for the audience : a flashback , showing the sisters and the servant , walking in the park on a sunny day , Agnes in voice-over . All these endearing , treasured memories , do they survive ? Remember in " wild strawberries " the old teacher realizing that his childhood memories were much more than honors . In both movies , they are luminous , glaring , and help us to make it through the night .
From the fairy tale to Cocteau .	In France , the fairy tale " La Belle et la Bête " is a classic by Madame Leprince de Beaumont . Try to read it if you haven't because you will realize that although Cocteau adapted the story , he took it to new limits , he dramatically expanded the scope , and most of all , he wiped out an obsolete grating moral . Mrs De Beaumont's fairy tale insists on virtue , her story takes virtue over beauty , wit or anything life can bring . The two bad gals are strictly punished at the end of the story : they become statues at the gate of their sister's palace but - supreme humiliation - , they will keep their mind beneath the stone which covers them , and thus be able to watch their sister's happiness . While keeping the two sisters ' characters , Cocteau leaves the " moral " angle far behind magic , symbolism , surrealism and psychoanalysis . Jean Marais plays three parts : Avenant , la Belle's suitor , the Beast ( four hours of make-up and terrible sufferings during the shooting : Jean Marais was one of the greatest actors France ever had - proof positive was that the new wave ( with the exception of jacques Demy ) clique never used him - , and the prince . These three entities that finally make one predates Bruno Bettelheim by thirty years : this is not only because Belle does not want to leave her father that she does not want to marry Avenant : she's afraid of the man , he's the real beast . This triple part is Cocteau's genius . Cocteau dropped out the good fairy who appears in a Belle's dream and then at the end of Leprince de Beaumont's story when she punishes the " vilainesses " and rewards the " good ones " Instead , we have these sublime lines : - You resemble someone I knew . . . - Does it worry you ? - Yes . . . . ( then a beaming face ) No ! ! ! Two words coexist - like in the literary work - : the mundane bourgeois house of the merchant ; the Bête's mansion , where everything is possible , where Cocteau uses special effect to create pure poetry , extraordinary enchantment . The two characters seem to act as if they are in a ballet . The passage between the two is first the mysterious forest . Then the Beast reveals his secrets five magic clues : the rose , the golden key , the glove , the ring and the mirror - some of them were in the story - and a horse " le magnifique " as the two worlds intertwines towards the end : Belle's room in her father ' s room , in her room in the palace , Avenant coming to her rescue while the Beast is dying , the two characters soon to become one . This is the best adaptation of a fairy tale for the screen . By writing the cast and credits on a blackboard , Cocteau winks at childhood - for a child he writes everything's possible - besides , it's because the prince did not believe in the fairies - all that is hidden for our poor rational spirit - that he was sentenced to his bestial life . Bruno Bettelheim thought children intuitively actually understood what lied beneath the fairy tales . They do not cry when the wolf eats the first two little pigs because thy do know that there is only one pig , at three stages of its development . They won't cry when Avenant will be hit by Goddess Diana's arrow because they do understand in their subconscious that all in all , Avenant and the Beast are the same entity : beautiful prince , horriblebeast or simple young man share the same mystery . Michel Tournier said that when his writing was at the height of its powers , he could appeal to children as well . Cocteau did the same for the seventh art .
We are all little men ( and women ) .	Peace and tolerance are the hero's favorite words . " Little man what now " was the first part of the trilogy which encompassed " three comrades " and would culminate in " the mortal storm " . The three movies featured the same star ( Margaret Sullavan ) and depicted life in Germany before WW2 . " Little man " - although Hitler came to power in January 1933 - , like " Three comrades " , remains vague as far politics are concerned . But we feel while the heroes pace up up and down the street that there's something in the air ( the first pictures ) . In " three comrades " , the ending in the graveyard tells us that " they " are in town . And " the mortal storm " connects all the links and is the absolute masterpiece Borzage always threatened to make . " Little man " is an overwhelming movie . Lammchen and Hans believe in love , tolerance and peace and the world they live in is harshness , selfishness , corruption and contempt . Hans's longing for human warmth is harrowing in the scene with the nurse . With an exception , when Hans is looking for job , he meets people who enjoy humiliating and demeaning their fellow men . " Little man " is full of strong scenes : the stroll in the country where the outside world ( the hateful Kleinholz ) will not leave the heroes alone ; the actor who wants to play the part of a guy who " lives in the wrong side of the town " but who does not show any compassion when he meets one of those guys . Margaret Sullavan on the carousel , confessing she ate all the salmon she bought ; on a bench in the park feeding the pigeons . Both Hans and Lammchen display the same naiveté : she really did know that near the pigeons , there were a man and his wife who were starving . Hans did not know either that his stepmother's parties were very bad things . When the movie ends , there's another little man who , says Lammchen , will be by your side and help you cope with your struggle . Watching " little man " ( or any of Borzage's movies ) helps you being a better human being .
King Huston	This movie seems to have been made by a young man . It took the adventure genre to its peak ( it was to be cheapened by Spielberg in the eighties with I . Jones and co ) . The screenplay is marvelous , now funny , now dramatic , now parodic , now epic . John Huston runs the whole gamut of emotion , suspense and humor . Abetted by two peerless actors , he tells us a tale so weird that only a first-rate director could have pulled it off . A metaphor on the power , on man's conceit ( wasn't it the case for such early gems as " Sierra Madre " or late masterpieces like " the dead " ? ) , a conceit that knows no bounds . Actually , Connery's character doesn't want to be a king , he wants to be adored and worshipped as a God . ( In a famous scene , he asks Caine to bow low before him ; it's comic admittedly , but it's a dark spooky humor : in a nutshell , the " Divinity " is losing His mind ) Comedy and tragedy walk hand in hand is this subtile work . See how Connery's imposture is being found . Then we have the sublime final confrontation Connery / Caine , when the former is to be executed . It's difficult to hold back your tears ! And as for the very end of the movie , when Caine returns , it's more terrifying than the whole of " the exorcist " . " Vanity of vanities , all is vanity " Huston seems to whisper in the gloom .
" the Life of Jesus " ( 1997 ) and " Humanity " ( 1999 ) solidify Bruno Dumont as a genuine author	" the Life of Jesus " ( 1997 ) , Bruno Dumont's previous movie ended with the murder of an Arab teenager . " Humanity " ( 1999 ) starts where " the Life of Jesus " ended : with the rape and the murder of a little girl in the same small town : Bailleul . Obviously , police is on the alert to launch an investigation and track down the slayer . A superintendent , Pharaon Winter ( Emmanuel Schotté ) has been assigned to find him again . If you think that you deal with a sempiternal detective plot and that the movie will be exclusively built around it , you are partly right . First of all , on the surface , " Humanity " is akin to any detective film with the usual ingredients of the genre . Yes , but Bruno Dumont , the director takes these ingredients back to concoct a recipe in his own manner . The first merit to be attributed to his work is that it bewares of every commonplace and every easiness of fashion . All the clichés which bit by bit endowed in an artificial way the genre of the detective movie have been shelved and consequently , Dumont's work is a real breath of fresh air . Now , if you take a closer look , the quoted investigation plays eventually a subordinate role and almost serves as a pretext to a nearly documentary about Pharaon's life . The less we can say is that his portrait is a far cry from the usual portraits of cops French and American cinema have been cramming us for several decades . So , Pharaon Winter is a policeman in Bailleul . He's the great-grandson of a famous painter with the same name . Throughout the film , we learn vague scraps of his tumultuous past life including this most important one : he lost his wife and little girl in an accident . Now he lives with his mother . He is also secretly in love with his neighbor , Domino ( Séverine Cotreele ) although the latter has a lover , Joseph ( Philippe Thullier ) . The three of them regularly go out either it is in restaurant or by the sea . . . So , Dumont goes beyond a simple history of killing to shot a real study of customs that would be worthy of an entomologist . Not only about the life of Pharaon but also on the close relatives who surround him , notably on Domino's and Joseph's . Then , to plunge more on the contents of the film and for a better understanding of it , let's write Dumont's words about the main reason which incited him to shot this gem : " I wanted to make a movie that would deal with the love of humanity while bearing in mind the reality which is grievous " . Indeed , this humanity suffers and is made of rather dumb or sad human beings . and we mainly perceive them through Pharaon's eyes which are full of empathy and sympathy . With the presence of Pharaon , we learn to like them and become sensitive to their sorrow . In the last sequence when the murderer has been found ( I won't reveal who it is ) , Pharaon kisses him on the mouth . If you don't bear in mind Dumont's words , of course , it will seem ludicrous to you but it is perfectly coherent with the philosophy of the film . On another extent , Pharaon sympathizes to the humanity's pain but this reality can be sometimes unbearable ( the primal scream in front of the Eurostar , the embrace with the male nurse at the mental hospital . At last Dumont isn't afraid to shot the brutish sides of this humanity as the wild sexual relations between Domino and Joseph testify . " The Life of Jesus " brought out a strong Bressonian odor in its cinema writing . In " Humanity " it fills the whole movie so much that Dumont could be Robert Bresson's deserving grandson and heir . Although he declines any link of relationship with the author of " Diary of a Country Priest " ( 1951 ) , their respective cinema approaches perfectly agree : an absolute supremacy of the image , rare or reduced to the extreme dialogs to make the action progress and hiring of non-professional actors . Dumont's directorial style perfectly exploits these features and silence speaks much louder than dialogs . Through the actors ' countenances and gestures , the viewer can guess or try to find what the comedians may think of . Dialogs are largely scattered throughout the flick , they notwithstanding contain another part of brilliance from Dumont : with few dialogs , he can express so much . . . Furthermore , Dumont distinguishes himself from Bresson and perseveres in his way with characteristics which belong to him . By watching this film , we can feel that there's such a will to depict life as it really is without distortions or extravagances and there's such an intensity in the presentation of Bailleul that it is close to the extraordinary and sacred . And of course , like in its predecessor , there's always this sharp sense of detail ( which says a lot about several characters ) , of space and observation which contribute to solidify " Humanity " in its place of winner . Such an arty work would be no worth without its actors . Like in " the Life of Jesus " , these non-professional actors seem to live more than to act what they go through . One can't forget Emmanuel Schotté's neutral performance and his lifeless , melancholy face . Robert Bresson would probably have cried to work with him . . . " The Life of Jesus " was the act of creation of an author , " Humanity " is the step of maturity and for Dumont it is astounding . A pure marvel as well as an undeniable tour-de-force in the so much massacred genre of the detective film , " Humanity " leaves an indelible mark in our mind . The odds are that this slow-paced , one of a kind detective film will throw a viewer or two , used in watching whodunits shot in a vigorous and dry manner but if you are sick of them , why not spend a DVD evening in front of this gem ? If it hypnotized you , maybe will you see the world differently .
You know old trees just grow stronger . . . .	. . . Old rivers grow wider every dayBut old people just grow lonesomeJohn Prine , " Hello in there " . My favorite MacCarey drama , better , IMHO , than his beloved works such as " Going my way " " the bells of St Mary's " " An Affair to remember " . Its influence was important in Europa , notably in France ( René Allio's " La Vieille Dame Indigne " ) or in Italy ( Luigi Comencini's " Buon Natale , Buon anno ; Vittorio de Sica's " Umberto D " ) . Unforgettable scenes : The bridge game during which the old lady gets in the way . The sound of her rocking-chair , the phone call , the children ashamed of their mum , all rings true , all leaves a bitter taste in the mouth . The letter ma sent to pa : " I cannot read anymore , you'll read the rest when your glasses are fixed " the old man's buddy says as the news become more and more depressing . One should notice here McCarey's skills ; a tearjerker maker would have shown us through the home for aged people , but the sentences of the letter are much stronger than the pictures " This is a lovely place " the daughter-in-law keeps repeating . The last afternoon together , the last hours which are all the more precious . The tenderness the director feels for his characters is infinite . Victor Moore and Beulah Bondi shine during this extraordinary romantic final : coming back to the chic hotel where they spent their honeymoon , they won't return to their selfish children's home for one last meal ( what kind of beast could enjoy such a feast ? ) . In the hotel , they dance and there's that magic moment : the conductor , realizing these old people cannot adapt themselves to the new jazzy rhythms , asks his musicians to play " let me call you sweetheart " . The ending is one of the saddest I know . Whereas Frank Capra would have probably gathered the whole family in the station , or had Thomas Mitchell arrive at the last minute when the train moves off , McCarey refuses any happy end . Hence the failure of the movie when it was released . Make way for tomorrow indeed ! There are very revealing shots of New York with the skyscrapers and the cars which run faster and faster , leaving the old by the wayside . And however these sacred lines had warned us before the tragedy began : " honor thy father and thy mother " , written on an ominous sky . Waiting for someone to say Hello in there , Hello ( J . P . )
automatic for the monster	The concert " Roadmovie " was filmed and recorded during R . E . M . ' s three final gigs of the Monster tour in November 1995 in Atlanta , Georgia , the band's native state . A very testing trek punctuated with serious incidents like the drummer Bill Berry's aneurysm in Lausanne , Switzerland or the bassist Mike Mills ' intestinal tumor after a concert in Köln , Germany . But Michael Stipe's great band overcame these dramas and overall , the tour was a big financial success . When the band landed in Atlanta , they were in excellent mood and " Roadmovie " is a valuable witness of their state of mind . Mike Mills seemed to be on top form these nights . Although Michael Stipe isn't here at his most talkative , " Roadmovie " also stands as an eloquent witness of the concerts the band gave during the Monster tour with the screening of films and photos behind the stage , Michael Stipe in a Kurt Cobain style due to his glasses , at least for the beginning of the film , Mike Mills in a glittering costume and the order of the songs for most of these nights . As for the set , the usual suspects are here : " Losing my Religion " , " Man on the Moon " , " Everybody Hurts " or " What's the Frequency Kenneth ? " keep the audience overjoyed with new songs to boot at the time which were to find their places in " New Adventures in Hi-Fi " ( 1996 ) : " the Wake-Up Bomb " or " Undertow " . My favorite moment was " Let Me In " practically filmed in static shot that gave the performance a harrowing feel . Stipe dedicated this song to Kurt Cobain and Mills plays this swirling guitar part with a guitar that once belonged to the Nirvana front man . If you stand in awe for R . E . M . , this is a must-have in your collection . You can forgive the sometimes flashy effects for some fast songs like " Star 69 " and enjoy the rest . The end of their world as we knew it ? It was highly likely to arrive in 1997 with Bill Berry's departure but now , let's hope that it will be delayed as soon as possible .
