I don't even see how the kids could get a kick out of this movie	" The Haunted Mansion " , I REALLY WISH THEY WOULD GET OFF THE DISNEY RIDE MOVIES ! " Pirates of the Carrobean " was a great movie , they can't keep going . They couldn't expect this movie , if that's what you call it , to get the same reaction . Eddie Murphy has lost his touch beyond all measures . The whole story is very lame . I couldn't describe how much I wanted to turn this movie off . But everyone always says " You never know , it could get better " . Why ? I wasted a hour and a half of my time on this junk ! Don't even show the movie to your kids , they won't like it . It's so bad and cheesy , don't even bother yourself to watch it .
Was it just me , or did anyone else feel like they were watching a Kraft cheese commercial ?	I swear at the beginning with the parents , I felt like they were just smiling too much and it looked like they were just going to say cliché ' things like " Oh , you kids ! " or " That's coming out of your allowance " while smiling at the camera on cue . Now , granted , this is a movie for kids , but I think we are starting to insult our kids just a little bit . I mean , we do actually have a decent cast for a kid's flick , but these adults really sunk beyond the kid's humor . While it has some good morals and another happy ending , just the jokes got old and I think we are just insulting our kid's intelligence and humor . PS : Loni , lay off the fake tan !
I hated this movie	Ah , The Glass House , this is the movie I've tried to forget , I got dragged to the movie theater with my friends to see this , I just knew that I wasn't going to get into it . I feel bad because I always say to people even if you have a gut feeling that a movie is going to be bad , just try to have an open mind and enjoy the film . My main problem though ? I can't stand Leelee Sobieski , seriously , ever since I saw Heaven on Earth , her face just , I can't describe it , she annoys the heck out of me . But I did decide rather than just complain through the whole movie , I would just try to sit and see maybe if the film could have been worth the watch at least , well , I was wrong . After losing their parents , Grace and Dave , in a car accident , Ruby and Rhett Baker are placed under the guardianship of Erin and Terry Glass , former neighbors / parents ' best friends and childless couple who live in a large glass house in Malibu . Life is great for both siblings at first . However , Ruby soon discovers that her new foster parents are after the siblings ' $4 million trust fund . Ruby discovers that the car her parents died in was a BMW loaned from the Glass ' company and suspects that Mr . Glass was responsible for their deaths . Mrs . Glass watches an old home video of her and Ruby on a beach , happy and healthy . Then , overwhelmed with guilt , she overdoses and dies . Ruby wakes up the next morning with Mrs . Glass ' dead body lying next to her . Shocked to find his wife dead , Mr . Glass traps Ruby and Rhett in the basement . Eventually , the two escape . After a brutal car accident due to Mr . Glass tampering with his own car in the same fashion as he did with the kids ' parents . Honestly , this movie is just a waste of time , it's a very mediocre thriller that is , well for me at least , is just very predictable . The acting is lame as well as the story ; but I will compliment the set , if you want me to give this movie a positive comment , there ya go . It's just a weak script , bad cast , and I can't wait to get this bad taste out of my mouth from this stupid movie , just writing this comment is making my health deteriorate . I have to stop , I'm sorry , just stay away from this movie , plant a tree , watch paint dry , that's much more useful then watching this movie .
The best part is when he taped the head's mouth shut	I just loved watching it though and having fun with it's total badness of a film . I saw this film through the helpful sarcasm of Mystery Science Theater 3000 and I have the DVD . If you flip the to the other side of the DVD , they show the actual movie , so I gave it a chance . Seriously , folks this is grilled cheese . The acting , special effects , and plot in general is very cheesy and unrealistic . " Doesn't she need lungs " said Crow noticing how the head can still talk while it doesn't have a body , and Tom Servo just wistfully remarks " No , she's got neck juice ! " . The ending is just classic and no one can touch this soundtrack with K-Porn ! I loved the " cat fight " between the two strippers . That " Meow " after the fight or scene , whatever , was classic . So , in some ways this was a fun movie . I think for horror fans , you'll probably enjoy it . For a good time , watch the MSTK3 version , you'll get a great laugh . MST3K version : The Brain that would die :
Nothing could have saved The Haunting	The Haunting , if you have seen the original , you know a great ghost story , it's perfection on film . It's a haunting tale of 4 people who go into a haunted house and with the simple trick of sound and movements , it terrified people . It still remains effective to this day if you appreciate film . So when The Haunting was remade in 1999 , a lot of people pretty much had the same reaction " WHAT ? WHY ? WHAT THE ? " But in my opinion if a remake is respectful enough and just wants to reinvent the story for the newer generation , I'm pretty cool with it . This is definitely not the case , this is just a disrespectful boring shame that will waste your time and I guarantee will deliver no scares ? pfft ! PG-13 , what where they thinking ? Not much apparently . When her mother dies and her sister evicts her , Nell receives a phone call , telling her about an ad for an insomnia study run by Doctor David Marrow at Hill House , a secluded manor . Upon arrival , Nell meets Mr . and Mrs . Dudley , a strange pair of caretakers who do not stay on the property after dark . Shortly thereafter , two other participants in the study arrive , wild Theo and " bad sleeper " Luke Sanderson along with Doctor Marrow . Unknown to the participants , Doctor Marrow's true purpose is to study the psychological response to fear . Each night , the caretakers chain the gate outside Hill House , preventing anyone from getting in or out until morning , when the caretakers open the lock . There are no working telephones inside Hill House and the nearest town is several miles away . Doctor Marrow revels the story of Hill House . The house was built by Hugh Crain , Crain built the house for his wife , hoping to fill it with a large family full of children , however all of Crain's children died during birth . Crain's wife killed herself before the house was finished , and Crain became a recluse . The first night , Theo and Nell begin to experience strange phenomenon within the house , including odd noises and inexplicable temperature changes . Nell is confronted after the main hallway is vandalized with the words " Welcome Home , Eleanor " , and becomes extremely distraught , setting out to prove that the house is haunted by the souls of those victimized by Crain's cruelty . She learns that Crain built his fortune by exploiting kidnapped children for slave labor and murdering them when they were of no more use to him . He then burned the bodies in the house's fireplace to hide any evidence . She also learns that Crain had a second wife named Carolyn , of whom Nell is descended . Everyone thinks she's crazy while Nell is convinced this is where she belongs . Seriously , I suggest you stay away from this film , it's really stupid and pointless . Not to mention the actress the played Nell , Lili Taylor completely annoyed me , her performance , her look , just everything about her , don't get me started on things I would do just to not see her in film again . Catherine Zeta Jones just didn't fit in her role as well and Liam Neeson , a wonderful actor wasted talent once again . The effects are way over the top and too computerized , I just can't believe that they would trash a wonderful classic with this crud . Believe me , if you are going to be afraid of something , be afraid of seeing how you can turn a great ghost story into an annoying piece of overblown stupid ? . Oh , this film is already hurting me , just don't see it , it's bad .
This really was the worst of the Beethoven films	Well , at least my cousins finished off with a bang , we finished with the worst of the Beethoven films . The reason why this film was so bad , was because this was an unnecessary sequel , it just seemed like even though 99 % of the cast from the other sequels chose wisely not to appear in this film , they decided to come up with a stupid story anyways and just deal with what they had . This was a movie that couldn't decide to go more towards the adults or the kids . Sara has been left behind for some reason by her family to stay with her uncle . Beethoven also happens to be with her and they are in a town called Quicksilver where there are tales of ghosts . When Sara is given a ten dollar bill that Beethoven has found , she is accused of having fake money , but then finds out from the sheriff that the money she has is very old and is worth tons , now everyone in the town wants Beethoven to sniff the money out for them . Beethoven's 5th is a very poor excuse for a family film , it just seemed like they were looking for any kind of an excuse to make another Beethoven film . I'm sorry , but Beethoven was was over at the second sequel , stick with the original and the second , that's it . Beethoven at the time was original and a fun family film , but now the sequels are just silly .
Pretty stupid	I was looking for a movie with senseless violence , gore , sex , etc . , etc . Just to kill a hour and a half , and I ended up wishing that hour and a half back . Why did I rent this movie ? ! Why ? I thought it would be good . And it was just stupid . I didn't get the whole situation with the ice cream man . And there was like one bloody scene . Stupid , stupid , stupid . Did I mention it was stupid ?
It was just awful and I just couldn't get into it	I know that there are some " Pearl Harbor " fans , and I'm sorry but to be honest this movie is just trash . It seemed to me that the director just wanted to have a huge action movie and lost all the details that this event really happened . They just added a huge love story in it that wasn't memorable and also that they were trying to make another " Titanic " . I was looking forward to this movie when it came out , because I had studied World War II religiously and I couldn't believe this monstrosity of a film . Ben and Josh play Rafe and Danny , two American boys who grew up together and are in the army . Rafe seems to just be in love with America and one girl , Evelyn played by Kate , she's a nurse who helps Ben get back to health after a certain mishap with his nose . They have a romance , but when it comes time for Rafe to choose between his country and his love , which does he pick ? You just guess . But when an accident happens in England where Rafe is , they assume him dead and send Eve the message of his death . She and Danny then become real close through this lose and you guess it ! They get down and dirty ! Rafe comes back though expecting everything to be the same as before . Shock ! Eve is pregnant with Danny's baby ; but that's the least of their problems when the evil Japenese are thinking about bombing an unexpecting army base , Pearl Harbor . The movie then just turns into nothing but action and makes the audience forget that this was real . I didn't feel a connection between Ben and Josh . If could actors just look more like they hate each other or didn't enjoy working together . Kate has a good performance , but unfortunately is not supported well by the other actors . The Japenese are made out to be total villains , even though what they did was wrong , but the movie might as well just should made them into those villains from the old James Bond flicks . The movie just doesn't work and doesn't deserve respect in any way historically .
" When confronted by a werewolf , it is important that you immediately leave your car and run out in the open "	LOL , I just saw this movie from Mystery Science Theater 3000 , well , actually it was the first episode I ever saw . But I didn't remember the movie since that was back in like 1999 , but I just recently saw it again and I have to say that this movie was just an utter disaster waiting to happen . I feel awful for these siblings of Oscar winning actors , it seems like they get the crummy roles . So my sincere apologizes to Joe Estevez , it's bad enough your brother gets awesome roles , then your nephews as well ? Poor Joe , let's take a moment for him while I try my best to describe this movie . OK , from what I gathered , a group of archaeologists dig up werewolf remains . Now a group of scientists take the remains , but not before one of the archaeologists gets a cut from the remains , and becomes a werewolf ? So this guy , I think his name is Paul , starts to infect people wanting them to become werewolves while his hair style changes on a minutely basis . Then this girl , Natalie , would like to save him . . . and she ends up with a bad consequence with no explanation what so ever . This movie is just plain bad , believe me . I am so sorry that I had to see this film , but it was awesome watching it with Mystery Science Theater 3000 , that's the only way that makes this film tolerable . I loved the scene with the couple's just making out and the girl gets out of the car while she sees a werewolf and runs out in the open , while her boyfriend just stays in the car . LOL , great MSTK3 episode , bad movie .
Hee hee hee . . . I don't get it	OK , let's start from the beginning of the movie , now a fat girl is roaming the streets dancing around like an idiot and being rejected by all the guys and looking like a fool . How is this funny ? Then wow , a fat red head having a African American father and an Indian mother ? To boot a Japenese Jewish sister ! Wow , I am just in tears of laughter . Actually , not . Then taking all movies that need no paradies ( i . e . : Napolean Dynamite , Meet the Parents , Meet the Fockers , Shallow Hal , Say Anything , etc . ) , using the exact same lines and only adding someone's stupid joke to it , yes , indeed it's so clever . You may ask why did I see this film if I really had no interest in seeing it , unfortunately , my friends forced me ! People , trust me , this is a big miss movie that needs no viewing and that the makers should be ashamed of . Hollywood , you're getting too pathetic . To all the people who are reading comments just to see if this movie is a winner , trust the unfortunate fools who actually paid to see this flick , you might gouge your eyes out with a fork or loose all faith in Hollywood after witnessing this horrible mess they call a film .
The Only Thing That Was Butchered Was The Story	Ed Gein , one of the most famous serial killers of all time , he was the inspiration for famous movie killers like Norman Bates , Leatherface , and Buffalo Bill . He is also one of the most sick and disturbing killers of all time , I watched a documentary on him , so I know his story pretty well . When I saw this , I was curious because I thought it was supposed to be like a documentary re-enactment , but I have to say that this was just a pathetic waste of time . First off , the facts are completely wrong , with a few minor exceptions , and secondly , this was just a stupid Hollywood story when these horrific murders really happened and they just made it into a cheap buck . Not to mention that if they were going to make it into a horror movie , this was poorly acted ! Ed Gein , he lives in a small town in Wisconsin called Plainfield , but he has a little secret that the whole town is being effected by , he digs up dead bodies , as well as brutally murdering people . Bobby , a deputy , is on the case to get Ed Gein , only , no one knows who the killer is at first , just finding crime scene after crime scene . But things get " personal " when Ed starts messing with the policemen's family and friends . Of course this movie was just ridicules and completely insulting to the true story . I always thought that bad acting is a necessary tool to a horror flick , but for this story , it should have been a better acted film , not to mention , it should have been more of a documentary than a stupid cliché'd horror film . Please , stay away from this film , it's completely pathetic and untrue to the story of Ed Gein .
This was possibly the most uncomfortable movie I have ever seen	And that's incredibly sad after seeing Pink Flamingo's last year , I mean The Heartbreak Kid was just one of the most stupid films I have seen . There was absolutely nothing funny about this movie and I don't understand it's rating . The Farally brothers have lost their gift , because I have no idea what they were smoking when they came up with this film and thought it would be a good idea . Ben Stiller also , I mean , his character was absolutely the biggest jerk I have ever seen on film and was in no way likable . I think that was the main problem I was having with this movie was due to the fact that I think Ben Stiller's character was supposed to be likable , but there was no saving him from the way this script was written , because he is in no way justifiable . The Heartbreak Kid was definitely the worst film of 2007 . Eddie is starting to feel a bit alone in the world filled with love sick couples . But that all changes when he meets a beautiful girl , Lila , and after 6 weeks of dating her , she needs to go to a different country for a job , but Eddie is feeling so good that with the pressure from his dad and friend , he marries her . They go on their honeymoon and Eddie finds out that Lila have some disturbing traits to her personality . But his vacation quickly changes when he meets Miranda who is on a family reunion , and he falls in love with her . But of course , since he's still " technically " married , it gets hard to tell Miranda . The Heartbreak Kid has some of the most uncomfortable nudity I've ever seen . I have no problem with nudity in films depending on the context , but this script was so awful , like how Lila loved being a freak in bed . OK , I get it after the first scene , but they continue this weird joke for a few more scenes , not to mention her jellyfish scene with Ben was beyond gross . This was just an unnecessary film in every aspect , the script needs at least some major work because the characters are awful and so is the story . Please stay away from this junk , it's not worth your time .
Oh , please tell me they did not do this !	I hated this movie ! It just completely ruined the first Texas Chainsaw Massacre . Why ? Oh , why did they make this movie ? Little SpoilerNow is it just me , because I thought that when Leatherface came in with a chainsaw and the girl was sitting next to the beer , and Leatherface hit the beer with the chainsaw and it was spraying all over her , wasn't that rediculous ? Good God ! I can't believe this isn't on the bottom
" Did I just see this or I just imagine it ? ! "	OK , I just saw this Mystery Science Theater 3000 episode last night and the movie was The Incredibly Strange Creatures Who Stopped Living and Became Mixed-Up Zombies , quite a title , huh ? It's a mouth full that's for sure . The strange thing is that as much as I love Mystery Science 3000 , this movie was so bad , I don't think Mike and the robots could help it . This movie was so unbelievably bad , the story , the sound , the actors , the picture , the title , everything about this movie was so bad . I know there are some films that are so bad that it's good , but honestly The Incredibly Strange Creatures Who Stopped Living and Became Mixed-Up Zombies is not one of them . From what I gathered , there's a strange psychic , who has this insane ( you don't know what kind of country she comes from ) accent . She turns people into crazy zombies , something like that at least from the crummy make up they used . There is a group of teenagers and Jerry falls in love with one of the strippers from the carnival who is the psychic's sister and they hypnotize him into trying to kill his girlfriend , Angela . This is just an incredibly stupid movie , I just couldn't believe that something like this got green lighted . I understand it's low budget , but this was just so sad . The camera angles gave me such a headache , why did they zoom in and out , in and out , in and out , again and again and again ? It wasn't really intense and it didn't work . Please , I am warning you to stay away from The Incredibly Strange Creatures Who Stopped Living and Became Mixed-Up Zombies , from the title , you should already have a good enough idea what kind of a film this is .
At least Showgirls had personality , what was this ?	I was cruising through my movie channels and I saw that Striptease was playing , I remember seeing the trailer for this movie back in 1994 when I was a kid and wanted to see it , oh , my parents had to forbid it . But of course since I'm 23 and on my own , I think I was allowed to view it . I kinda wish now that I had my parents here to tell me no because this movie was really bad . I mean most people make fun of Showgirls , I mean yeah , it's understandable , but at least that had personality and more memorable moments than this . Demi Moore just strips down to some really depressing music and this movie has the strangest humor in the world . I could see how some people might get a kick out of it , but over all it just a bad movie , it has no zest and nothing to make it special . A story about a stripper . . . OK , here it goes . The film revolves around Erin Grant , a former FBI secretary , who loses custody of her young daughter Angela to her ex-husband Darrell . In order to afford an appeal , Erin becomes a stripper at the Eager Beaver , a Miami strip club . A Congressman named David Dilbeck visits the club and immediately begins to adore Grant . Aware of Dilbeck's embarrassing indulgences , another Eager Beaver patron approaches Erin with a plan to manipulate the Congressman to settle the custody dispute in Erin's favor . However , Dilbeck has powerful business connections who want to ensure he remains in office . Consequently , those who can embarrass him in an election are murdered . Meanwhile , Erin retrieves her daughter from her negligent husband . Dilbeck's personal interest in Erin persists , and she is invited to perform privately for him . He asks her to become his lover and later his wife , despite his staff's concerns that she knows too much information . A debate occurs as to whether to kill Erin or simply keep her quiet by threatening to take away her daughter . Demi is alright in the movie , if even that , I'm being pretty generous considering she let her daughter , Rumor , act as her daughter in this movie . If I were Rumor , I'd be like " next time , I pick the mother / daughter bonding event " . I wouldn't really feel like watching my mother dance around naked for men nore a camera . Well Rumor must have gotten a huge raise in her allowance for that to happen . But anyways , I wouldn't recommend Striptease , it was a sleazy movie , I would even go as far to say that if you want sleaze , go for Showgirls , it's more fun to watch and make fun of , this was just a sad movie .
What the heck is wrong with you people ?	To those who enjoyed the film , I have one question : Why ? This film was stupid and a complete waste of time . I'm not one who was looking for a gory film , so don't say to me that I didn't get the " art " of the film because all in all , this was a poorly made film and believe it or not as horrible as it may sound I was rooting for the killer to win because those girls were so incredibly stupid . SCENE SPOILERS The girl surprises the killer by having his riffle , she misses the shot and hits his neck , good injury , but not great . Now if she didn't want to kill him , that's fine , but injure him . . . bad ! Now there are no more bullets for her to kill him , but he has a knife , she doesn't take his knife and stabs him . OK , that I could see , maybe she forgot or something , but now she could have taken the butt of the riffle and hit him in the head causing a bad concussion or even death . But no , she just hits him in the back that would probably more likely wake him up or give him a tiny back ache . Stupid women ! I'm a girl and I was embarrassed to be one because of this movie . This movie is so stupid , don't waste your time or money . To people who liked this film , I'm not judging but seriously , what did you see in this movie ?
" If you don't jell , it's not Jello , and this just ain't jelling "	I know curiosity killed the cat , but I simply had to see the remake of Psycho , especially after being on such a Hitchcok journey recently and knowing his work . I've watched the original Psycho though since I was a kid , I knew how to respect it and not only that , it was an excellent movie ! One of the best , in fact ! The first thing I said when I heard about the remake was " How do you remake perfection ? " . I stuck to that as well , but I think I have a more open mind now and figured maybe it was a way of introducing Psycho to a new generation . But this turned into a total insult and slap to the face of the original Psycho . I know this has been said , but I watched the making of this film , and the director was like " Oh , I just want to update it and shoot each scene shot by shot like the original " . . . what's the friggin ' point ? ! OK , but I want to judge this movie on it's own , despite it's insulting blows the original . I mean , the acting wasn't up to par , but honestly , it looked like the actors just watched the original and just memorized the lines from there and made it their crappy own . Watching the making of this film , I wanted to slap Anne Hasche , she said " I've never seen the original , I just wanted to work with Gus . " Ooh , that made me angry , because frankly , it's not just that , she really sucked in this role as Marian , she wasn't convincing , not to mention her shower scene really was horrible . Vince Vaughn didn't make . . . let's just put it this way , the film was horribly miscasted . This was a sin against film and on it's own , this was actually a bad movie . It was too much and destroyed what could've been a new introduction for a new generation . But to Gus , leave the film making the one's who KNOW WHAT THEY'RE DOING !
You know what's weird ?	Gigli , named the worst movie of 2003 , understandable in some ways , but I have to say from what I was expecting , this is not the worst film I have ever seen . BUT , but , but , but , that is a huge BUT , I can see why people don't like this film , and why I found it to be a bad idea as well as a bad film , the cast was beyond a mistake . First off , this movie was made during the time of the media craze of Bennifer , so it made it kind of annoying to see these two together again , but it's mostly Ben and Jennifer's acting " abilities " that kill the film . I'm supposed to believe that Jennifer is a " tough " gangster who does nothing to prove she is dangerous and that she is a lesbian ? Not likely . Ben is also supposed to be a tough like New York accent dumb gangster ? His accent was in and out during the whole movie . Also , did Christopher Walken and Al Pacino like owe Ben and Jennifer a favor ? Because they so did not belong in this movie . Basically we have a screw up gangsta hit man who for some reason keeps getting hired instead of killed , Gigli ( his name rhymes with really ) , he has to kidnap a retarded brother of a politician . But Gigli's boss thinks he needs to be watched by a hot lesbian gangsta , Ricki , who just refuses to sleep with Gigli , understandably , but he's a brat about it . Then his mom hits on her , very scary , and she ends up liking him anyways . But they end up liking the retarded kid and want to help him because they are now the tough hit men with a heart of gold ? Now somehow this was turned into a ridiculous romantic comedy . Now Gigli like I said is not the worst movie I've seen , but it is a bad one . The only reason why I saw it was because I was so curious if it really was the worst movie of all time , is it ? No , I wouldn't say so , but it is up there . The script was not at all well done , and very hard to believe . But for the most part it was Ben and Jennifer , I'm not saying that to hate on them , it's just a true fact . They were just the worst cast for a mafia type of movie , what was the casting agent thinking ? I'm glad the Bennifer thing is over , but it's sad that Ben and Jennifer will always have to look at this moment in their lives and be teased about it , because if I have a bad weekend , I'm going to say it was " Gigli " bad from now on .
More like Stupid and Stupider	When I was at the movie store the other day , I passed up Blonde and Blonder , but something about it just seemed like it could possibly be a cute movie . Who knows ? I mean , I'm sure most people bashed Romy and Michelle before they saw it , Blonde and Blonder might have just been another secret treasure that was passed up . But when I started watching it : Executive Producer Pamela Anderson , wow , I knew I was in for something scary . Not only that , but both of what were considered the pinnacle of hotness : Pam Anderson and Denise Richards , not to offend them , but they were not aging well at all and they're playing roles that I think were more meant for women who are supposed to be in their 20's , not their 40's . The story was just plain bad and obnoxious . Dee and Dawn are your beyond stupid stereotypical blonde's , they really don't have a clue when it comes to what is going on in the world , it's just really sad . But when the girls are somehow mistaken for murder assassins , the cops are on their tale and are actually calling the girls geniuses due to their " ignorance is bliss " attitudes . They are set up to make a " hit " on a guy , and they think they're just going to " show him a good time " , but the real assassin is ticked and wants the case and to kill the girls . Denise and Pam just look very awkward on the screen and almost like they read the script the day before . I know that this was supposed to be the stupid comedy , but it was more than stupid , it went onto obnoxious and was just unnecessary . Would I ever recommend this ? Not in a million years , the girls are just at this point trying to maintain their status as " sex kittens " , it's more a sign of desperation and Blonde and Blonder is a huge blonde BOMBshell .
Did they even need actors ?	I swear , this movie was just an excuse for horny teenage computer nerds to get together and create what they would call a " film " . Who frickin ' green lights these movies ? ! Now , I am a fan of Milla's , she's beautiful and a very cool actress , but to be honest with all the CGI that was going on , I didn't even think she was on screen at all . This movie was a total insult to her and anyone who thought their career would take off after this film . The plot doesn't make any sense and is just plain stupid . I would definitely not recommend this film for anyone who is a true movie buff . It is a waste of time and money . Sorry , Milla , we know you can do better .
" I didn't shell out the extra money for the bat-chasing option on this car and NOW I need it . ! "	Wow , this is seriously one of the worst movies I have ever seen in my life , I've seen some bad movies , but Samson vs . the Vampire Women is in a class of it's own . Now from what I understand Sampson is sort of like the Superman of Mexico , he's their hero , I always honestly thought it was a joke with the Mexican wrestlers , thanks to this movie , I'll be having nightmares for weeks , seeing that ridicules costume , no offense to fans of Samson , just God , that was such an outfit ! I did see this through Mystery Science Theater 3000 , thank goodness for Mike and the bots because I don't think there was any other entertaining way to get through this movie . But the only thing I can say about this movie , is that it's so bad that it turns around once again into the good / bad zone that makes it so laughable and you actually find yourself enjoying it , it's the vampire version of Goodfellas . A vampire woman has awakened and discovers that it is time to find the reincarnation of the queen of the vampires . She awakens other vampires to find the girl and their group will grow strong again . But the girl that they are after is being protected by her family and friends . . . and SAMSON , a Mexican wrestler who for some odd reason sometimes runs away from the bad guys and just flips them on their backs . But with Samson protecting her . . . well , I'm sure that she has an average chance of getting out of this bloody situation . Samson vs . the Vampire Women is pretty stupid , I mean we go from a vampire story to a wrestling match that has nothing to do with the story , it's like watching a movie with Paris Hilton and then in the middle of it cut to her sex tape just because that's mainly what she is famous for . If you are going to watch this , unless for some odd reason you are a fan of Samson , I would recommend watching it with the Mystery Science Theater 3000 gang , they make this movie much better , I just cannot believe some movies get the green light , this is definitely one of those movies , but at least it made for a great episode that will have you dying of laughter .
I never realized how good the dental insurance was back then for cave men	OK , after hearing many horrible reviews for 10 , 000 BC , I have to say that I was really put off , this I was assuming was supposed to be the big kick off to the huge block busters . But I got to see it for free , and I always think that sometimes people just misjudge a film , even though my co-worker warned me , I still went for it and saw it . Thank God the movie ended when it did , I had the neuce around my neck by the end of this film . I mean , seriously , did the " writer " do any history homework ? ! First off , let's talk about appearances , the " cave men " have perfect teeth , have evolved well for what's supposed to be over 10 , 000 years ago , and remove the dirt , they're skin belongs in a Neutragina ad . Script ? Was there one ? I have no idea , the story made absolutely no sense and the ending was horrible . I don't want to give away what happens , but trust me , I think you'll be as confused as I was . I'm going to try my best to explain the plot to you , it's high school drama with cave men , so bare with me . De'Leh is a cave man with his tribe and has earned the title of " best warrior " , he is allowed to have any woman , so he picks his childhood sweet heart , Evolet , but he later feels as if he didn't earn that right , so he " gives her up " . She is kidnapped by another gang , oh , no ! Whatever will he do ? He gave her up , but he still digs her and never even got a kiss ! So he goes after her with a few of his friends and find themselves fighting saber-tooth's , monstrous snow storms , a snake river , and even a god who got a bad nail job . Oh , let's hope he can save his girlfriend in time and all will be well . That's the Cliff's Notes version I can come up with . May I just say that I absolutely loved how the cave men spoke perfect English , seriously , I didn't realize that it was possible for them to speak that well in American English . This script was written for 12 year old's , seriously . Then they put in these awkward jokes , strange characters that are more laughable than serious , and a love story that would seriously be so non-existent if this was an accurate portrayal of history . I don't mind when they " bend " the truth for dramatic purposes , but this was the friggin ' Seasamse Street version of cave men history . Stay away from this trash , it's just a waste of time , sadly , how many good movies could have been made with the budget they probably put onto this film ? I'm seeing at least 7 already .
Oh , God ! Not again !	Why ? ! Who in the hell hired the people who actually thought this would be a good movie ? ! Some movies just shouldn't be made and this one is an example . First " Prince of Space " and now this ? ! OK , again , I loved the MSTK3 episode , but this is so silly . How do movies like this get made ? I mean , it's the same exact plot of " Prince of Space " . Except without the gracious laugh of the annoying villain . That's a plus . Other than that , this film is awful . I don't get how these movies ever get made . Oh , well . I guess it's one of those questions that will never be answered . Obviously .
Oh , my god	Before there was " Showgirls " there was " Girl in Gold Boots " . This film is even worse and worse made . You know , I really think the director took himself seriously when he made this movie . Sad , is it not ? But I think he didn't realize that he had a budget to stick to when making this movie . The plot ? Michele is a wanna be dancer ( who really can't dance , but we're lead to believe she's the best ) but is unfortunately kept with her alcoholic father in the popular restaurant " Eat " . But when a Kasey Kasim wanna be walks in with promises to make her a professional dancer with the help from his sister who is the " main attraction " in L . A . , she leaves within the blink of an eye . On their way they pick up a hitchhiker , Critter . Of course there will be tension since everyone loves Michele's looks . When they finally arrive in L . A . , and there is Christmas decorations all around Hollywood , where's a better place to go than a haunted house ? But it's just a hidden dance joint where the dancers look like they're more having seizures and clucking like a chicken then dancing . Michele , Buz , and Critter get involved deeper than they would want in the business with a slick greasy pusher who owns the joint . When Buz's sister , Joanie , is obviously in bad shape from drugs and possibly overdosing on the fake eyelashes , she confesses that she once had a " pretty mind " and tells Michele to get out before Leo , the pusher , takes her down too . But can Critter and Michele make it alive when they already know too much about a plot and a murder that doesn't make much sense ? Oh , man . You have no idea how poorly made this film was made , I mean we're talking just God-awful acting , poor sound , bad editing , atroshish writing , and a horrific picture . I just loved how in one scene , it's just Critter and Michele are sitting ALONE at a table , but in the blink of an eye Buz is in the picture . I loved MSTK3's commentary " I'm back ! Come on ! I just teleported here ! It's impressive ! " . Watch the MSTK3 episode , that's the only way you'll enjoy the film . for the film for MSTK3's version
You have got to be kidding me	Oh , I wish I had my $8 . 75 back . Now , I did somewhat enjoy the first Scooby Doo , I had no interest to see the sequel though . But my best friend called and she badly wanted to see it . It was plans , and who knew ? I might have liked it . We decided to see the 10 : 30 ( at night ) show , thinking there would be no children in the theater . Boy , were we wrong . What parents bring their 4 and 5 year old children to a 10 : 30 show ? The jokes are really stupid . The plot is nearly unbearable . And the leading actors have hit an all time low in their careers . I was starting to wonder about Sarah Michelle Gellar , where she was going to go . Same with Freddie , Matthew , Alicia , and Seth . I couldn't believe what they have done to themselves . The movie is a success at the box office hitting # 1 . But if you ask me , I think this should be on the bottom 100 . Very lame .
Rowsdower Rowsdower Rowser Rowser Rowsdower Bowsa Bowsa Lowsdower Zabbity Zabbity Zowsdower Bibbity Bobbity Bowsdower Bobbity Dobbity Dower Rows . . . . . Dower	OK , hands down , The Final Sacrifice is the best Mystery Science Theater 3000 episode . I'm still laughing every time I think of this movie , it's just , how do movies like this get green lighted ? Or did the director ever stop and wonder if he was making a good movie ? The acting and characters were just so unintentionally laughable , it's insane . I can't believe they gave the " hero " a name like Zap Rasdower , that's such a stupid name , but it made for a good laugh , that's for sure . The kid , Troy , looked like such a Lord of the Rings type of dork ( no offense to the LOTR fans , it's cool that you like it ) that you couldn't help but wanna get inside the film and knock the books out of his hands . The villain or Canadian villain Garth Vador had this ridicules voice , and were did Mike Piper get his voice ? Was Yo Sammity Sam like his inspiration ? This is just such a ridicules story . Troy is looking for who caused the death of his father , he finds a map that is supposed to lead him to a lost world . But this cult lead by Garth Vador is after him and wants him dead and wants the map , but Troy outsmarts them by getting on his ten speed bike to out run them . He gets off his bike and hitches a ride with Zap Rowsdower and together they go to find out what this is all about and why Troy's father died . Maybe they can also find out why Rowswer is a . . . hopeless drunk . The Final Sacrifice is one of those movies you'll never believe got made , it's just so laughable . I highly recommend the Mystery Science Theater 3000 version , it's just beyond funny , I loved every moment in that episode . But I hope the director watched that episode because I wanna see a Zap and Troy spin off , that would be an awesome show with an occasional guest appearance of Mike Pipper . I smell the Emmy's coming for best new show , lol .
This film made me confused , paralyzed , then I tried to hang myself afterwards	M . Night Shyamalan's first Rated R film and he blew it completely , I remember this year actually wanting to see this movie , it looked really interesting and Mark Wahlberg is becoming a more great actor in his experience . The only problem here is M . Night Shyamalan , this man is constantly credited for Signs and The Sixth Sense . . . that's it , because that and Unbreakable are his only good movies . Honestly , he's just loosing it , I think he's become so cocky and now he's trying to have more of an edge with this R rating . His story lacks any sense , there are just so many things wrong with this story and not to mention the characters have no sympathy . Nothing was ever properly explained and there are tons of plot holes . The ending was just a cop out , it was nice to see that Shyamalan didn't go for his typical " twist " ending , but still this story just needed so much work and probably would've been better under someone else's name . According to reports , citizens in the vicinity of Central Park have suddenly and inexplicably begun seizing up just before killing themselves by whatever means are at their disposal . As the phenomena begins to spread and talk of terrorism fills the airwaves , Elliot , his wife , Alma , their friend Julian , and his daughter , Jess , board a train bound for the presumed safety of the country . When the train screeches to a halt before arriving at its final destination , however , the frightened passengers are forced to fend for themselves as each consecutive news report paints an increasingly grim picture of the situation in more urbanized areas . Theories abound on what could be causing the unexplainable rash of suicides , but the only thing that everyone seems to agree on is that it's some kind of airborne contagion that is carried in the wind . I feel so bad for saying this , but seriously , I was laughing at the suicide scenes . I don't know why , just first there is a police officer who shoots himself in the head , literally his forehead , why would you aim it that way ? Also a trainer feeds himself to his tigers that rip his arms off instead of knocking him down and people film it ? ! There is a woman who is on the phone with her daughter , puts her on speaker in front of a group of people to hear her commit suicide ? ! Also , Julian just leaves his daughter to find her most likely dead mother in the hands of a woman he doesn't trust , yes , let's leave the daughter and most likely make her an orphan . Gosh , I could go on and on about how horrible this movie is , but I think I'd run out of room . Just trust me , the story is just horrible and could've been good if maybe made more as an independent film , but Shyamala-ding-dong just ruined it .
I wasn't impressed	After seeing From Dusk Till Dawn , I was looking forward to seeing the second film , I knew it had a crummy rating , but I figured to give it a shot . Who knows ? I thought since it had Robert Patrick and Bruce Cambell , that it might have potential . But I just watched it and I'm hoping for that hour and a half back because this was a pretty sad movie . First off , it wasn't anywhere near as good as the first From Dusk Till Dawn film and it had a bunch of shots that the director was trying to impress people with but it ended up making the film look cheesy . The plot was just ridicules , it could have had something , but instead it was pretty stupid . I mean , who knew that vampires needed money so badly ? That they too can rob banks ? How did some of the characters who supposedly died in the last film come back to life ? How did the strip club come back ? I don't know , but this was just a bad idea . Buck , his brother , and his friends are in Mexico to rob a bank for millions of dollars . But when a friend of their's , Luther is running late for their meeting . His car breaks down on the road and he heads for the same club as the first film and of course is turned into a vampire and then comes back for his friends . Buck is unaware of what is to happen when his friends take him to the bank and he finds out that maybe he'd rather just go to jail then be with these blood suckers . From Dusk Till Dawn 2 : Texas Blood Money has extremely pointless moments , like the beginning sequence with Bruce Cambell and Tiffani Amber Thieson , it never had anything to do with the story . The acting was bad and the action wasn't really that exciting . They also kept cutting to an edit of the boys watching a porno movie , so it was like they were trying to have some sex in there the cheap way I guess . I don't know , I just really feel like my time was wasted with From Dusk Till Dawn 2 : Texas Blood Money . I'd rather just stick with the original and I suggest you do the same .
The first Titanic film where the iceberg is the hero	OK , normally I go into a paragraph of introduction on how I came across this film and a little bit about the film or film trivia , well not this time , I'm going to let you judge for yourself on just what I'm going to tell you with this " story " . The movie starts off with the ending . . . ? ? ? Yeah , the ship sinks , sorry to spoil this movie for you already . But anyways we have a man and a woman rowing in a lifeboat , rowing , rowing , rowing as we hear people screaming for their lives on the sinking ship . We pan into the woman's eye into a flashback , a la Titanic ( 1997 ) , and right before the same woman , Angelica , boards the Titanic , we see she is actually a servant to her evil step mother and her two evil step sisters , a la Disney's Cinderella . She has a blue colored locket necklace , a la Titanic ( 1997 ) , inside there is a picture of her mother , oh what happened to her mother ? Of course the evil step family taunts her pain and that she'll never find her mother . Just about everyone and I do mean EVERYONE , including animals ( when did this become Noah's Ark ? ) board the Titanic with happy joy . We even have two thieves , a la 101 Dalmations / Home Alone , with their evil woman thief , a la 101 Dalmations . There is a detective on their tails , a la Sherlock Holmes , who's a moron and couldn't catch a cold . We then meet a man named Geston , a la Beauty and the Beast , who takes Angelica's locket and gives it to the busty hot singer of the ship , a la Celine Dion / Titanic , to impress her . We cut to a mouse with his family , a la An American Tail , where he's about to get eaten by a cat that randomly pops up out of nowhere , he's saved by a dog . . . now , brace yourself , it's not just any dog , it's a dog that . . . can . . . rap ! Yes , I'm sure James Cameron really regrets now cutting out of his Titanic his rapping dog , after all a music genre that wasn't invented till decades later is perfect for children and history . So yeah , a rapping dog , dare we move on ? Yeah , let's keep going . So we meet William , a pretty oh so British rich man with a nanny who happened to loose her daughter years earlier . William then meets Angelica in the hall after washing her evil fat step sister's clothes , but the connection is unstoppable as William touches her hand and she runs away while he makes goofy faces saying how he must see her again ! He eventually does see her again and asks if she'll be at the dinner reception , but she has nothing to wear ! So , a la Titanic ( 1997 ) , one of the other maids has an old dress that she used to wear and it magically fits Angelica perfectly . Not only that , a la Cinderella , the mice feel bad that Angelica's necklace is gone so they steal it back for her . Dinner comes and William takes his lady saying how happy he is to have her . . . THEN learns her name ? ? ? ? Hmm , yeah . He defends her in front of her evil step family and takes her to her room ; everything is just dandy , so dandy , let's have Mexican mice do a salsa song ? Uh huh , OK mind you I just had to have a few shots of Jack Daniels to get this far . But let's not forget this is Titanic , the iceberg comes ! FINALLY , the iceberg hits the ship and what better solution ? The men grab buckets and start filling them up with the water in the ship and throwing it back out at the ocean slaps forehead in shame OK , I have to keep going , William of course panics and goes to save his lady love and of course being lower class she is trapped behind a metal gate that the other passengers break down like it's cheese . William tells her to go with the women and children and they'll meet again soon , swoon . As the ship sinks , on the same lifeboat , the two thieves and their lady leader are still trying to steal stuff ? Good timing , not to mention how funny they are while the ship is sinking and people are dying . This is where Angelica meets her mother ! ! ! She's not at all angry , in fact her mother says she wanted to keep her daughter , yet she didn't , and her and Angelica hug in happiness . As the Titanic goes down , the Dalmatians , a la 101 Dalmations , start crying ? William goes down with the ship but of course not without saving a child ! So the lifeboat with Angelica finds a body in the water and it's . . . ah , great , it's just the detective , well that was a waste of human space on the boat . However they do find William and somehow he's very much alive and both him and the detective act happy and are soon on their feet dancing and William kisses his love in slow motion . We think it's the end , but instead a creepy child tells us how the step sisters married the two thieves and are unhappy and Angelica and William got married , adopted children and puppies and lived happily ever after . Yeah , that's right , Titanic gets a happy ending . The writer is working on the sequel September 11th , 200FUN ! Don't show this movie to anyone , I have to go to the hospital now from alcohol poisoning .
When a stranger calls . . . I don't just stand around and breathe heavily	Oh , my God ! What a horrible movie , I am not kidding , folks . I actually asked the ticket guy for my money back ! This is such a bad movie , you have to trust me when I say to save your money . The plot was slow paced , the acting was stupid and cliché , it's incredibly predictable , and the worst part ? The supposed " scary " stuff doesn't happen until the last 15 minutes of the movie ! I just knew this was going to be a disappointment , but my friends just had to see this movie , I mean , how can they make like a 15 minute urban legend into a hour and a half movie ? They did it and they really wasted our time . Please , I can't wait to see this as # 1 on the bottom 100 ! Believe me , it's that bad . Or watch it at your own risk , but I warned you !
OH . . . MY . . . GOD ! What have they done ? !	How . . . why . . . who . . . WHAT DID THEY DO ? " Star Wars " in the now is like waiting for a disaster to happen ! They destroyed the story . How could they ? I used to love Liam Neeson , but he has truely lost my respect . The " Star Wars " trilogy is one of the greatest trilogies ever . Then they give us this ! This ? ! Nothing but big computer effects . Characters that are dull and boring . The plot did not put me on the edge of my seat , thank you very much . I do not get how this movie has a rating of 6 . 5 . How ? ! It doesn't even deserve my kind rating of 1 . But unfortunatly , that's all IMDB gives me to rate . And if 1 is " awful " , this is being to merciful . This was beyond awful . But until then , I'll have to stick with giving it :
Why ? !	Why did they have to waste money on this crap ? ! WARNING ! CONTAINS SPOILERS ! ! ! The plot : down-to-earth-good-kind-girl meets a rich-snob-ignorant guy . Her boyfriend gets jealous and with the guy , they burn down a resturant ? ( Over an UGLY girl ? ) Guy has to stay in town to build a new resturant , perfect for the love story to begin . But , hark ! ! ! The girl is dying ! ! ! Isn't that a surprise boys and girls ? But she teaches him love life , and enjoy it . He's sad she is dying . She dies . He is sad . But has now learned to love life . What's the moral of the story ? When , dying , teach another person to love life . LIKE EVERY OTHER LOVE MOVIE EVER MADE ! ! ! ! AAAAAH ! This movie was the crapiest thing I have ever seen ! ! ! ! Did the director want to try to make this plot original ? ! AAAH ! And the friggin ' girl would not die ! ! ! It took her a half hour ? ! I felt no pity for the charactors , and the love story died the first hour of the movie . DON'T WATCH THIS MOVIE , UNLESS YOU WANT TO BE BORED OR GET A HEAD ACHE ! ! ! !
Oh , Oliver , where did you go wrong ?	I have heard pretty much nothing but bad things about Alexander , so I pretty much stayed away from it , but I noticed that it was sitting in my mom's movie collection and I just wanted to watch something new . I always like to give a movie a chance to see if I would enjoy it myself . Nope , I have to say most of the reviews on IMDb are correct , this is an over blown Ben-Hur wanna be . Not to mention , how in the heck did the casting director think that Angelina Jolie was perfect for Alexander's mother ? Colin Ferrell , Colin Ferrell as Alexander ? ! Now I wanted to give this guy a chance , but seriously , Colin Ferrell ? ! Not to mention the strange film making , the constant story always twirling back into the question of Alexander's sexuality . I'm such a history buff , now if a movie isn't true to history , it does irritate me a little , but I just think , it's a movie , if it's entertaining , give it a break . Trust me , Alexander is just a bad movie and is an insult to one of the greatest warriors of our time . Based on the story of Alexander the Great , we see him grow as a boy who isn't accepted by his father , is admired by his mother , and is slowly learning the power of being a king , being a strong warrior . His father is murdered leaving him the throne and going into battle to conquer lands , own whoever he wants , make decisions that will effect his country , having to figure out who are his true friends , questioning his sexuality , discovering the true difficulty of being a good king to his people . I seriously had the neuce around my neck by the end of this film , I just couldn't believe how long it was , I don't mind long movies at all if they are worth your time and are very well put together but Alexander is just a mess . The film jumps time back and forth and gets you all confused . Not to mention , please , what the heck was with Angelina Jolie's accent ? ! Did she watch Bram Stroker's Dracula too much ? Believe me , I love movies , I mean , I really love movies , I will always say if this movie is meant for a certain crowd , but trust me when I say that this just a plain bad movie , you'd expect better from Oliver Stone , but he went way over his head and really went overboard with Alexander .
Very possibly the worst movie I have ever seen	And that's pretty sad , because I've seen a bunch of horrible movies , but this one is in a class of it's own . Now , I'm going to be honest , I wanted to see this film when it was first released in the theaters . It looked kinda like a fun movie , but I decided to wait until it was for rent . I knew this movie had a bad rating on IMDb , but I figured it was just because Usher was one of the biggest stars at the time and people were just trying to trash him . Boy , I apologize for doubting the views of the IMDb users . First off , what was the screenwriter on when he wrote this ? Or was he simply reading " Screenwriting for dummies " ? What the hell does he or the director take me for ? ! I grew up in friggin ' little Italy / Chicago ! I'm not stupid . Now , not to sound horrible , but this movie was totally inaccurate on how a mafia boss would let an African American watch his daughter . Never would happen in a million years . Not to mention the horrible stereo types in this film ! It was horrible . The two lovers had no chemistry and the plot was . . . . ahh ! Just never see this movie ever ever ever !
Is it just me or is Arnold really starting to scare people ?	Sigh , Jingle All the Way , how this film has a rating that is above the 4 . 0's on IMDb boggles my mind . This is one of the scariest films of all time . First off , we have Arnold Schwarzenegger , The Terminator , he's playing this wacky almost like 80's silly comedy show type of Father Knows Best . Second , I think this is the film that just gives up on us , it goes from alright to stupid to silly to bad to just plain awful . Third there is nothing redeemable about this movie : the terrible acting , the lousy story , the crappy moral behind it's shallow message , and Arnold's accent , granted the accent has gotten him a career , but still it's disturbing the way he presents some of his lines . Not to mention that for some odd reason they put Sinbad in this movie , sorry to say but he is just not funny , actually no body , even one of the best voice actors of all time : Phil Hartmen . . . I can't believe he took on this movie . Howard Langston is often busy at his job , and has a hard time finding time for his wife , Liz and his young son , Jamie - especially when compared to next door superdad divorcé , Ted Maltin . After breaking his word again by missing Jamie's karate grading , Howard resolves to redeem himself and his marriage by fulfilling Jamie's ultimate Christmas wish , an action figure of Turbo-Man , a popular children TV superhero . Unfortunately , as is the habit with him , Howard has promised to buy that figure earlier that year and then promptly forgotten about it . To make things even harder , Turbo-Man toys are the must-have gifts of the season , and stocks of Turbo-Man toys are quickly drying up all over the country . Desperate not to disappoint his family again , Howard embarks on an epic city-wide quest to find the toy everyone's looking for . Along the way , Howard encounters Myron Larabee , a postal worker dad with a rival ambition , and the two quickly become bitter competitors in their race for the action figure . The chase begins to arise the ire of a police officer whom Howards keeps running into , and one of the most memorable scenes includes Howard desperately hooking up with a band of brand-spoofing crooks and ending up thrashing them . In addition , Ted attempts to hit on Liz , which she eventually turns down hard . The search climaxes with both dads masquerading as live action stuntman in a department store parade . As the " real " Turbo-Man , Howard uses the opportunity to present a coveted limited-edition Turbo-Man doll to his son in the crowd . But before he can recognize his dad , Jaime is chased around the parade by Myron , dressed as Turbo-Man's arch nemesis Dementor . Jingle All the Way is just one of those movies that you wonder how in the heck it got green lighted , to those who enjoyed the film , I normally say to each his own , but how can anyone like this film ? It's just so stupid , I love how the ending , Myron tries to kill a child to get a stupid toy for his son and all is forgiven so easily . Gotta love how Turbo-Man has an Austrian accent , muscle bound , square jaw , tall . . . yet his own kid doesn't recognize him at all . Even the one scene that had a great joke , the bomb that was wrapped as a present , they even ruined that with a lousy slapstick joke that I know it was a family movie , but it just was stupid . The writers must have been on some new meds when they wrote this one because this is one of the worst Christmas movies of all time if not number one , trust me , it's just that bad .
It takes second to the Matrix as one of the most overrated films of all time	Oh , man . I can not believe how bad this movie was . When I was 12 , my parents made me sit down and watch this film . And told me it was very very good . The only thing I found amusing was Will Smith . It's 7 years later , I'm 18 now , so I'm in a film class in college . And my teacher said to try to watch it again . And I thought he was right , that I was forced to watch it . So , I sat down again and watched it willfully . And I still didn't like it . Take away the fancy effects and like the Matrix , what do you have ? An average action movie . I don't think any movie could be as bad as The Matrix , but this came pretty close .
My God ! It really is that bad !	I have to say , you know , it has been my " sequel weekend " . Despite repeated warnings from my family and IMDb users to skip this " Jaws " flick , if you even want to really call it that , but I ignored it and figured maybe it's just getting a bad rep because it would be compared to the first and ultimate classic " Jaws " . In the words of Nancy Karogan " Oh , why ? ! Why ? ! " . That was the only way I could describe the film and sitting throw it . Wither it was the cheesy cheesy cheesy effects , I mean did every horror movie in the 80's have to be 3-D ? It's rather , well , cheesy ! The plot ? Was there a plot I even ask ? There was no main story or line for us to follow and I felt the story kept on forgetting to telling us the sub-plot . The acting was horrible , I'm surprised Dennis could even get a career after this . I'm just telling you , please do not be as stupid as me and ignore the warnings ! Be afraid ! Be very afraid ! Of the actual movie that is .
Halle , if you're going to continue dragging down your career , can you do us a favor and not bring Bruce with you ?	I was very much looking forward to seeing Perfect Stranger , in fact I wanted to see it in the theater , but one my friends saw it and said it's more of a rental then the typical 10 dollar movie ticket price . So I waited and rented it yesterday , I watched it tonite and I am severely disappointed . I mean it's so bad that I just almost hanged myself in my room , it just had the most unoriginal story that I could imagine . Not to mention it was such a waste of good actors . Now I like Halle Barry , and of course , I'm a huge fan of Bruce Willis , so the combo seemed good enough for me and the story seemed sexy and exciting . But it turns out to be an unoriginal dud that does not excite people or keeps them guessing because the story just bangs your head around . Ro is a writer who's ex best friend is murdered , before the murder her best friend tells her about an affair she had with Harrison Hill , a big boss executive at an ad agency and how he wanted to end the affair , but she wanted to continue the relationship or she'd go to his wife . Ro decides to go undercover and discover Hill's dark secrets along with the help of her perverted friend , Miles . Then there are other little stories throughout the film that don't seem that relevant , so I won't bother mentioning . I should have known that when I read the back of the cover's reviews " Halle Berry is sexy and steams up the screen " , what did that have to do with the movie ? It's like that was the only nice thing the critic had to say about Perfect Stranger . I highly recommend that you stay away from this film , I've lost total hope now for Berry , she hasn't made smart choices since Monster's Ball or X-Men . But at least Bruce still has his chance to pull himself back up , just trust me when I say that this is a very bad film .
The most predictable movie on Earth ! ! ! !	This movie was so stupid . You know who the killer is . You know who will die . You know who will get the big chase scene . Lets just say that the teen slasher films are getting a tad bit unoriginal . Scream , Halloween , Nightmare on Elm Street , I know what you did last summer , Texas Chainsaw Massacre , and Friday the 13th are the original teen horror flicks . And all these other movies are coping off them . So to the director , maybe you should come up with something more original than killer-chases-big - breasted-girls-who-can't-act moteff another step .
I just couldn't get through it	I'm sorry , but " Ocean's 12 " was horrible in every aspect . In no way does it deserve a 6 . 0 . I see movies on IMDb more deserving of that rating and this crap doesn't deserve even one point . I was robbed of my money , kind of ironic , isn't it ? I tried so hard to get through this movie . I figured maybe I was a little too hard on it the first time I watched it . So , give it another chance I thought . I watched it again , I couldn't even make it through the beginning . The ending is the only part of the movie that deserves just one point . Otherwise , just stay away ! I'm serious ! Stay far far far away from this trash . You will be disappointed or hurt someone if you watch it .
It's kind of lame	OK , I think that " Twister " was a decent movie . Most movies with tornado's can work . But " Atomic Twister " doesn't do to much for the viewers . The effects don't even help the movie . Mark-Paul seriously needs help when it comes to TV movies . The movie does have potential . I think there is a good movie lost in here somewhere . It just can't come out . It could've been more , but it couldn't do it . I was not impressed . I fell asleep the last 5 minutes of the movie . And it was on again this weekend , I tried to give it another shot . No luck again . It was just too boring . I think it's safe to use the tag line : It sucks .
They took one of the world's most terrifying situations and turned it into Arnold's blockbuster	America has been dealing with the serious situation of terrorism since 2001 , I know even before that , but it became more of a terrifying and realistic situation after . They took that violence and terror and turned it into a mystery action flick made for Arnold that just insulted America and wasn't too entertaining in general might I add . It's very predictable and just was too much too quick . It just seemed like they were looking for an excuse to blow things up and they chose the most delicate subject to do it on . This movie is an insult and was just not good . I would not recommend this any day . Arnold has really lost his touch , thank God he was already the " govenator " after this movie was made .
I really can't believe Joel did this	Batman & Robin , the big summer movie of 1997 , I remember seeing this in the theater when I was 12 and even then I wasn't impressed . But when I was more grown up , I watched this film again , I figured since I loved the 3 previous Batman films , why not give this one another shot ? Now , seeing this movie once again , I can understand the low rating on IMDb , this movie was just a pathetic attempt at merchandising Batman and making an over the top action movie that really had nothing to do with Batman . The casting was just oh , so plain wrong . We have Arnold Schwartzenegger as Dr . Freeze ? ! Not to mention the accent , the character was just someone you felt like you could laugh off . Alicia Silverstone as Batgirl , she was alright , but again , questionable casting since she seemed out of place . Now , George Clooney ? ! I couldn't believe how Val Kilmer got complained about , but George Clooney I can see why . He was just the most awkward Batman ever and didn't fit the role at all , he was only used for his popularity . Batman is living it up with his bachelor lifestyle , but Robin is a bit upset that he is living under Batman's shadow and wishes to be the star . Alfred is becoming very sick and needs serious help ; his niece , Barbara comes to his aid and hopes to help him and stays with Bruce Wayne . Dr . Freeze is our new villain and is looking for a cure for his wife who is frozen until he can find a cure for her , he also is intending for the world to pay for what has happened to him and his wife for some reason . Dr . Pamela Isley is a plant scientist / right activist and while her boss sees her finding out more than she needs to know about an experiment on his version of Frankenstien , named Bang , he " kills " her with her plants . But the plants chemicals have an effect on her and actually make her into Poisen Ivy . She and Freeze team up to take over Gothem and of course to split Batman and Robin forever , oh yeah , then kill them I guess . Batman & Robin was really beyond over the top , the costumes were a bit silly and the story was just too family friendly . This is Batman , the Dark Knight , it's not meant to be this bright and so crazy . I couldn't believe Joel did this , I really wish I could get past this , I know he's going to get a bad rap for this film for the rest of his career . The acting was just stupid and not true to Batman at all . The problem here was that the story and setting just had nothing to do with what Batman truly is and was just an excuse to spend stupid money . Please , don't watch this film if you love Batman , or you'll be sorry .
Uh . . . huh	Sometimes , I worry . I worry about Christopher Lee and if he will be alright after taking silly films and roles like these . Some movies you just shouldn't make , and this was one of them . I'm ashamed . How could I have even been interested in seeing this film . But I was curious if Christopher could actually do a good Dracula film . But no . Why , why did I pay $3 . 00 for this crap ? I could've used the money for better use . The plot could've gone somewhere . It could've . But they couldn't do it ! Someone must put an end to these stupid movies ! ! ! ! Please , I'll start a " Help Christopher Lee make better choices " club . We can help him get an Oscar . He's wasting his talent .
Nightstalker	This movie was horrible . I mean , now all these murders happened just a couple days after I was born , so , I wouldn't know the story . But I know that they probably over embellished . I wasn't happy with the movie , I hope I can get my $4 . 00 back from " Hollywood Video " .
" Do you have a phone so I can call Martin to take over my role ? "	OK , I saw this film through Mystery Science Theater 3000 , but I did see the movie , so I figured I would leave a comment on it . I just love once again how Joe gets stuck with the crummy roles while his brother and nephew's are just getting the Oscar winning roles left and right . Soultaker is technically what you would call the movie that was meant to be good . It seemed like the director and actors just took this movie extremely seriously and had very cheesy effects , a story that didn't make much sense , and not to mention pretty crummy acting abilities . This is one of my favorite MST3K episodes , simple because a lot of what they mention is what we are thinking throughout the film and I'll explain why in a moment . Natalie and Zach are a couple who broke up and are now trying to work things over . But since Zach is in upper lower class and Natalie is in middle class , it just ain't gonna work . But on the way home , they and Zach's friends get into a car accident and now the angel of death / Soultaker is after them to meet his quota of soultaking . But also it seems like he's had some kind of other life relationship with Natalie and just can't seem to move on . So now Natalie and Zach must race against the ever appearing five million times a minute clock to save their souls and lives . Well , I guess Zeppelin was wrong when he sang that there was a stairway to Heaven , I wonder if Black Sabbith was wrong too , lol . Basically there are a lot of plot holes in this movies , like no one can see the characters and they can't be killed , yet somehow they can still press buttons and open doors ? The Angel of Death had a very strange face and was a bit distracting from the story itself . Soultaker was just a lousy film that was rushed and makes you just feel so bad for Joe , the under-appreciated Sheen / Estovez brother .
But was it the final chapter ? No !	Friday the 13th : The Final Chapter : sequel number 4 in the Friday the 13th series , I have to say that I am very disappointed . The last three sequels have been pretty fun and exciting to watch , but I guess you can't win them all which each sequel , right ? I love the title , because it says " The Final Chapter " , I mean , it's awesome that I still have like 6 more movies to watch , right ? I'm trying to figure out what is the big deal with Jason Vorhees , what makes him so scary ? I guess since he's just a big guy with a machete , yeah , it's a bit intimidating . I just love how we see little Corey Feldman , this was one of his first films , he's just so cute . Well the Final Chapter brings us sex , bad acting , drugs , and all the gore we could possibly want . Timmy has witnessed a horrible death and when he is sent to the hospital , Jason has escaped from the morgue killing everyone in sight . But when a group of kids , including Timmy and his older sister , Jason follows . Of course their bad behavior ensues , and Jason is going to teach them a lesson he'll never forget , but I think he'll wanna reconsider when he meets Tommy , a possible match he'll never realize existed . Friday the 13th : The Final Chapter is the worst of the sequels I've seen so far , which is a disappointment , I thought this would've been fun with Corey Feldman being in it , but oh , well . I still have like 6 more movies to watch on top of this sequel . Jason is still badder than ever though which is a point for my standing , but the guy does need a little personality like Freddy Krugger , he'd just be more fun that way , otherwise he's just a mama's boy .
Riiiight , nice cover up	I was babysitting a couple nights ago and my cousins are in love with the Beethoven movies , so we watched all of them and had a movie night . I remember loving the first and the second Beethoven when I was a kid , so in some ways I was interested in seeing where the story took off for the Newtons . But this turned into your typical family film that wasn't really original or believable . The " villains " seemed to be homosexual morons who seemed out of place of wanting a disc of valuable information and the whole family was predictable stereotypes . Beethoven for no reason explained has been shipped to George Newton's brother , Richard who is taking his family to a reunion where he'll meet Geroge and Alice and give them Beethoven . I guess Richard rents a movie that these criminals thought would never be rented , in the case there is a DVD of secret information that the criminals must have back . They chase the family around with Beethoven who will make sure that these guys will not hurt the family , although with these certain villains , I'm pretty sure that's not a strong possibility . It was really bad acting and not even a good enough movie for a family afternoon . I'm not sure why my cousins liked the movies , because I raised them better than that with movie knowledge , but oh well , I guess these movies must have something special in them . So , I guess I will give it an extra point .
Wait ! . . . . What ?	I just rented Blackwater Valley Exorcism because the cover and pictures looked terrifying , and I don't normally watch movies that are automatically released onto DVD , but this looked so interesting and scary ! I was very much in the mood for a good scary film and to me , possession is one of the scariest subjects to watch or learn about . Just look at The Exorcist or The Exorcism of Emily Rose , both terrific movies that made break-throughs not only horror wise , but story as well . Blackwater Valley Exorcism is about a girl , Isabelle , who from the get go is automatically possessed , so we can't even tell what kind of a person she was to begin with . But a former wife beater turned priest is on the case with a gardener . . . ? I know . . . I know . Then they go into several other stories with the priest and Isabella's sister , and the priest hit the sister and messed around with Isabelle ? I'm not sure , then we get into a story with Isabelle's dad and his questioning of his wife's faithfulness to him . I mean , the story just goes into too many directions and wasn't well developed at all . Not to mention that the exorcism didn't seem authentic at all and more of a just scare your pants off type of a film , which I didn't like at all because I couldn't take it seriously . Whoever directed and wrote this clearly had no idea where to go or how to direct the story well , so I wouldn't really recommend this .
Meet Eddie Murphy's last shred of dignity	Once upon a time , in a magical world we like to call the 1980's , Eddie Murphy was on top of his game , not only was he on top , he was actually funny ! He made comedy after comedy after comedy of non stop laughs and nothing seemed like it could stop him ; then the world of the 1990's came , as much as we hoped for Eddie , it seemed like he had more mediocre comedies ; then the new millennium , oh , boy , his world has shattered since then . He was very lucky to have an Oscar nomination with Dream Girls , yet continued to release bad movies such as Daddy Day Care and the disaster that was Norbit , now we have Meet Dave , which would've been a good bad movie with unknown actors , but since we have well known actors , you can't help but feel bad for them , but Eddie Murphy just keeps making mistakes after mistakes and I'm just wondering what the heck was he on to think this was the script that will save his career , because I want whatever he's taking since he's in a La-La land right now . I feel silly telling you the " plot " , but I'm going to try to make it work . Dave is an alien who has crashed into Planet Earth , he has little people inside him who control his movements and voice . Dave is on a mission to gather all of the Earth's water and bring it back to his home planet . But when he meets a single mother , Gina , she shows him a good time in New York City and all of a sudden the little people wanna stay on Planet Earth . But one little alien named Agent number 2 is planning on succeeding at the mission and take over , yeah , that's the plot . I work at a movie theater so I get to see movies for free , the way I figure it is even if a movie looks bad , just give it a shot , it may not be as bad as it seems . Now granted , this movie is one step above Norbit , that's the relief , but the major problem here is , this movie isn't even good for the kids , it insults everyone's intelligence . Now I love movies , I also have an extremely open mind and will say if a movie was fun and to give it a shot , but Eddie Murphy , we need to save him if he can't save himself , his intervention must be the biggest movie flop in the world , well , I think he's succeeding with Meet Dave . Meet Dave has 2 funny moments , then the rest of the script could have been written by 5 year old . I wouldn't recommend this , the only thing it wasted was my time .
Did I see the same movie ? This was just a silly rip off	OK , I know that Dan Curtis directed the original Trilogy of Terror , but come on , this was just insulting the original story . Now I wanted to see this because I was curious since I liked the original so much , it is such a classic that is very under rated . So when I saw this playing on the Sci-Fi channel , I didn't hesitate to watch it . Now the first two stories weren't too bad , a little cheesy , but so was the first . I think these stories were meant to be over the top , but the third one was where it went bad . The third story was just a total rip off the the original Zooney hunting doll , the exact same stunts were used along with the exact same lines , the funny thing is , I don't think it was possible , but the woman was definitely more stupid and deserved to be . . . well . . . you know . Well , the first story is about a woman where her husband dies and she discovers his grave is missing and encounters horrible things when she finds out there is more than what meets the eye . The second story was about a mother and her son , her son drowns , but the guilt of not being there drives her mad and she resurrects him from the dead . But unfortunately , there maybe something more she brought back with her son . Then the third story was about the Zooney Hunting Fetish Doll that has murdered two women , but the police think it's a cult type of murder and give the doll to a scientist in a museum , but little does she know the horror that comes with having this doll by her side . The only thing I enjoyed about the last story was that I did get more than a few laughs , especially where they did her grabbing the blade of the knife from the doll when he is trying to get out of the suitcase she locked him in , and she goes for the blade once , gets cut , she acts surprised , but does she learn anything ? No , she goes for it a second time ! This film just didn't have the elements the first one did , Dan should have just left the stories alone , they are perfect the way they are .
So they really do need Eddie Murphy	I wanted to finish the Dr . Dolittle sequels and in some way I was interested to see how they would continue the story with Mya Dolittle . Well , this movie turned into a totally unrealistic typical pre-teen comedy that had no originality or interest , even if it was meant for a specific crowd . It was insulting to any human's intelligence , I mean , are we supposed to believe everyone naturally knows how to dance at a party ? Or that Mya could sing beautifully , dance wonderfully , and be perfect and not be popular ? Mya is now considered a freak at her school since she can talk to the animals . But when her mom realizes she still needs to find herself , she sends Mya to a ranch where Mya changes her name to get a new look and personality . But she ends up falling for the ranch owner's son and they face another ranch of snobs , the ranch owner is about to loose his farm and Mya decides to pull the team together to win the money to keep the ranch . Well , you see where this story is going , and it's a typical one . I was really disappointed with the movie and I wouldn't really recommend it , even for pre-teens , for me , I think it has insults their intelligence , it's just one of those movies , believe me . Stick with Eddie Murphy , he's a professional .
Rob Zombie , I am a forgiving person , but this is going to take a very long time	OK , now my problem with Halloween ( 2007 ) is this is a film that DID NOT need to be remade . Halloween ( ' 70's ) was absolutely perfect in every aspect , in my opinion , it's the scariest movie of all time . But when I heard that Rob Zombie was on to direct this movie , I actually thought for a minute there was a possibility this may be a good remake . I saw it this morning at the theater , I am in absolute disgust . Just it's not like he just re-made the movie into his own idea , no , he took some of John Carpenter's excellent ideas and just made them into crap . Now I'm separating this from the original , Halloween ( 2007 ) was actually by itself a bad film . Which really disappointed me since The Devil's Rejects was done so well , this was just a typical stupid unoriginal slasher movie . Now , Rob had a good idea where he developed Michael's character in the beginning , where we had a better idea on why he became Michael Myers . But after that , everything went downhill , because Rob just rushed all the other IMPORTANT characters , so they got no development what-so-ever . Mike Myers is a tormented kid , his mom is a stripper , his step dad is an alcoholic jerk , his big sister treats him bad , and he is picked on at school . But he kills small animals as well , leading him to go onto bigger things , like humans . He massacres his family , excluding his mom and his baby sister , he is taken to a mental institution and escapes 15 years later and is going after Laurie , his baby sister who is now grown up and is preparing her and her friends for a night of hell . The acting on the teenage girl's parts was just horrendous , like extremely bad , I was actually hoping for them to get killed , how sad was that ? Laurie was just a whiny little priss , not at all likable like Jamie's performance , same with the other two girls , they couldn't live up to the other performances . These girls were just annoying , not likable at all , while the other actresses at least had that going for them and made them likable vicitims . But it just seemed like they wanted their 15 minutes or some kind of big break , because it didn't even take them 10 minutes to take their tops off . On a movie on it's own , it's just too unoriginal and I'm disappointed in Rob because I thought he was really improving . Comparison to the original Halloween , perhaps Rob should have read the tag line THE ONE , THE ONLY , HALLOWEEN , because this was a huge slap to John Carpenter's face on his brilliant classic .
Hot diggity dang ! This here movie deserves itself a couple of Oscar statues ! Pfft ! Ha ha ha ha !	Now , just to let you know , I didn't want to see this in the first place , but I guess I was kind of curious and decided to let go and just see maybe if people were just bad rapping this movie because of it's pretty crumy cast . Well , curiosity killed the cat , the cat was lucky ! : D I never watched the original " Dukes of Hazzard " show , it was on before I was born and I was never really interested in watching it either . So , I had to judge this souly on the movie itself . Well , we have Sean " Stiffler " Scott , Johnny " Jackass " Knoxsville , and Jessica " Oh , yeah , I'm really that dumb " Simpson . We have this exceptional cast , pfft ! I'm sorry , there I go with that sarcasm again ! These people , Sean and Johnny work well together well , because they didn't even have to act much in the movie anyways . They had to be two dumb morons who could do some 50 speed chases with a racist vehicle , geez , what a stretch . Jessica playing Daisy , like I said , I never watched the original TV show , but wasn't the original Daisy a brunette ? Jessica playing a girl who uses her body to get what she wants ? Again , how does she do it ? I mean , wasn't this the girl who claimed she wanted to be be a " good role model " for young girls ? LOL ! Jessica , you sunk ! May I say that the relationship between her and Willie Nelson as father and daughter is close to her relationship now with Joe ? The shower scene , oh , yeah ! Basically , don't waste your money . It's pretty boring and not a well done movie . I'm seriously saying that with my critic's heart and not personal view on the cast . Just this is what I expected I guess , I really did try to enjoy it . But it's just a stupid movie that is not watchable . You'll have to trust me when I say that this movie just is plain horrible . - and I'm being nice !
I think the knight should have kept his tale	This movie was so bad . Why does it have a 6 . 5 ? I don't need to lighten up , because everything about this movie was just awful . Since when do 10th century peasants know " We will rock you " ? Please , explain . Because I'm not happy with this movie . And I will hopefully never ever have to encounter it again .
A little too silly if you ask me	Now , why would they have a sequel ? I'm curious . The family has already had an adventure by saving the dog from the first film . You'd think " OK , they live happily ever after " . Nope . LITTLE SPOILERSBeethoven falls for another St . Bernard . And they have puppies together , but Beethoven's girlfriend's master wants the puppies . The kids take the puppies without her permission . And she stalks the family to get the puppies . The family goes on a vacation . The children all learn morals of life . The parents fall in love again . And Beethoven cries over his girlfriend . And the woman happens to bump into them again . I mean , how more silly can you get ? What are these family's chances of having to save their dog once again ? We'll never know until the third one .
Will Ferrell can hold a 15 minute skit , not an hour and a half movie	I work in a movie theater part time and we got Semi-Pro , now I hate Will Ferrell with a passion , I don't get how people love his movies , some of them are funny , but it's more of his side characters that get the laughs from me . But I figured , I needed a laugh after work and I decided to just go ahead and see the movie , it might have a few good laughs , I saw it for fee and even that was too much for what this film was . I'm very much not kidding , this movie , the theater was about 75 % full and there was only two people who laughed , even that was just a chuckle . I don't get what is so funny about making Will Ferrell puke , in fact let's play on that joke quite a bit so it becomes more awkward . Let's also put in jokes that refer to " the future " since it's set in the 70's , that'll be a blast . And also , let's put in some extremely uncomfortable shots of Will Ferrell's crotch , yeah , that was so funny , that I wanted to puke . Jackie Moon is a one hit wonder in the 70's , but with the money he made off that , he buys the Flint Tropical's , a team that once was great , but now stink . They have an opportunity though to go to the NBA if they can be one of the top four teams to win the games . With the help of a former champion basketball player , Monix , who has lost it basically , they'll try to achieve the best , by getting fourth place . Jackie comes up with some stupid publicity stunts to get an audience as well . Semi-Pro is seriously , just stupid , I'm not saying that because of Will Ferrell , I just mean this film is very unfunny and the only part that made me laugh was the bear attacking Will Ferrell , sad , huh ? I'm really not trying to be a hater on this film , but how do people laugh at this junk ? Will Ferrell plays the same character in each of his films , doesn't anyone catch on ? The characters in this film are not likable at all because they're not explained well . Semi-Pro was just a bad movie , I promise you , I'm not saying this because of Will , I'm saying in general , just stay away from this film .
Highly over rated and too long	Ah , I know , I know . There are going to be a bunch of " classic film appreciators " going at me , but seriously , could you get into this film . Just because it scared a few people in the past doesn't mean that it's a " classic " . I heard so much about this movie . I was really looking forward to it . So , it's not like I didn't have an open mind to it . The acting was a little below average if you ask me . It was way over done . The only thing worth giving credit to the film was for Roman Polanski's directing . He did a great job . But over all , this is one of the most over rated films I have seen . ( # 1 being the Matrix ) I'm sorry , but I have to be honest .
Ernest isn't scared stupid , he IS stupid	I liked the movie as a child , but when you grow up you loose that magical feeling unfortunately . And I don't want to be cruel . Just as a movie , it was made for children and children only . Therefore , I lost it .
Kill me	Tom and Jerry , my absolute favorite childhood cartoon , I couldn't wait to wake up each morning to watch the crazy cat and mouse go after each other . Now I had heard a little bit about Tom and Jerry the movie , but never had an interest just because it frightened me that it was made in the early 90's , just knowing the time and what they would do to butcher our lovable icons , I couldn't see this tragedy . But the movie was on HBO and I had nothing better to watch so I figured , just have an open mind and think that this was made more for the kids . Now I was 7 when this movie was made , so I had to get into that mind set that I might think this is at least if anything just a good family film . Yeah , that was nice , I was convinced for the first 4 minutes of this movie that everything was going to be OK and then I realized . . . why are Tom and Jerry not making me laugh ? What is going on ? I suppose I'll tell you . Tom and Jerry are both together with their owners as they are about to move to a new home . The moving van is at their old house waiting , and Tom overdoses in the back of the car . However when he notices Jerry , he puts him on a stick , and Jerry , noticing no escape and knowing that he will fly , he grabs hold of Tom's whiskers so they fly together into the garden . Jerry quickly dashes into his mouse hole and locks the door , Tom nailing wooden planks on the door . Tom leaves the house , but it's too late : The owners have left . When Tom tries to get in the moving car , he ends up with a bulldog and ties up his ears so he cannot see . Tom runs into the house for safety and stays there for the night . The next day , Tom notices that the house is being destroyed by a demolition crew . He manages to escape but realizes he couldn't just leave Jerry goes back and saves him . The two manage to survive , but now they're homeless . Then they meet a dog named Puggsy and his friend Frankie Da Flea that tries to teach Tom and Jerry to be friends . At this point , something changes in the world of Tom and Jerry . They both start to talk ! Tom and Jerry then meet an eight-year old girl named Robyn Starling , whose mother died of pneumonia when she was a baby and is left behind with her horrid and evil guardian Aunt Figg when her dad goes away to Tibet . Robyn runs away after her locket is thrown out the window and that's how she began to run . Jerry said to her that if she runs , her things won't be with her but Robyn said to them that Aunt Figg may seem sweet but " she's mean , real mean " . Cut to Aunt Figg crying in the house , scared of losing Robyn . With the help of her evil lawyer , Lickboot and her overweight dachshund , Ferdinand , make a reward of $1 , 000 , 000 for the return of Robyn , who they wish to sell for a ransom , engulfed by love of money . Robyn is recaptured , but manages to escape yet again , after Tom and Jerry are kidnapped by Dr . Applecheek and are sent to a city pound where animals are abused , when everyone is now after Robyn for the money . Yup , you read right , Tom and Jerry talk . Now granted they had a few lines throughout the show , but they were just every once in a while , every GREAT ONCE IN A WHILE . It was just weird having them talk throughout the film , especially with those voices , again , I know that the film was made in the early 90's , but this just wasn't working . The story is too lame and cheesy , it concentrated more on the girl vs . the actual title characters . While it may not be the most horrible movie of all time , it's still just a shame that two adored characters were destroyed within 87 minutes . If you were or are a fan of the original Tom and Jerry show like I am , please stay away , trust your judgment like I should have . If you're not a fan or haven't seen Tom and Jerry , only if you're a child , you might enjoy the movie , note the word might .
Why do loud noises scare people ?	I was just channel surfing and saw that The Messengers was playing , I was in the mood for a good scary movie and I remembered the trailers for it , it looked creepy . The one thing about this movie for sure that kept my attention , almost every single 5 minutes , when there is supposed to be a scare , there's a loud noise to make the scene scarier . My main problem with this whole loud noise tactic to scare people , we've been reduced to using it a million times for a ghost story , it tries too hard , it's a major disappointment that the director can't come up with anything else . Not to mention this turns into a typical mystery thriller ghost story , why not just have a plain scary movie ? This does have some creeps and had such good potential for a real horror movie , but instead it just flopped and the story was bad . Jess and her family have moved from big city Chicago to little country town where her father decides to become a farmer and they've moved into a creepy old house where the crows just can't seem to leave them alone . Seems bad enough , right ? Oh , no , we have a random stranger come over that the family just trusts off the bat , the troublesome Jess is recovering her trust with her parents once again , and their little child is seeing ghosts . Well , what is going to happen now ? I guess you'll just have to find out for yourself , but I warn you that if big loud noises scare you , steer clear . This movie not only has the lamest way of scaring people , but it also has the most cliché's I've seen in a while . Like the creepy guy who the family just so easily trusts , in fact they trust him so much that without barely knowing him , they leave him with their kids , how smart is that ? This movie just frustrates me because it's one of those movies that shows what is wrong with today's horror movies . I feel bad just ripping this movie apart , there are some jumps here and there but that's only because of the constant loud noises . This wasn't a good movie to watch , it wasted my time , I wouldn't really recommend it .
Oh , I guess they forgot to tell us about the sub plot , or any plot for that matter	5 . 8 ? ! 5 . 8 ? ! Are you people out of your minds ? This was a pretty bad film , I'm not joking . First off , let's start with the casting , now Kiera Knightly , I love this woman , she's a great actress and very beautiful , but let's be honest . She's 80 pounds , too nice looking , and was a poor choice for a bad girl . She just wasn't believable as a tough chick . The picture , this was poorly made . I don't know if the director was just trying to be different or make a Pulp Fiction type of movie , but I couldn't see anything ! The flashes felt like an acid trip ! The story ? Was there even one ? I don't know , things kept popping up out of no where or Domino would start a story and wouldn't finish it , I felt like I was in a conversation with her and she just got beeped to a more important place or something . She and the director also told the audience to " F off ! " . I have never been told to " F off ! " in a movie before ! That's just plain rude , especially when I had to suffer through this stupid movie !
Sometimes funny , sometimes wrong , sometimes cute , sometimes just plain bad	After looking on this board to see why most people did not enjoy My Best Friend's Girl , it seemed like the only reason why was due to their lack of respect for Dane Cook , everyone just complained about him or Kate Hudson , but in some sick way I still wanted to see the movie . So I wanted to give it a fair chance and I saw it on Monday , oh , how I regret doing so . There are several problems wrong with this movie : the title is misleading , Jason Biggs really never had Kate Hudson as an official girlfriend in the movie , so why is the title " My Best Friend's Girl " ? The song " My Best Friend's Girl " is played almost over and over again in every scene , it gets pretty annoying . Kate Hudson says she wants to get out there and date , but she dates one guy and falls for him . Then Dane Cook is supposed to play this complete and total jerk who just messes around with women's heads and I'm supposed to believe he can just do a 180 on his personality when he finds the right girl ? Oh , this story gave me a headache . Dustin is crazy about a girl he has been dating , Alexis , so much that he moves quickly to say that he loves her and that they should move faster . Alexis freaks out and dumps Dusty , leading him to ask his friend , Tank , for a favor , Tank gets paid by other men to take their ex's out and to be a complete and total disgusting jerk making them realize that the guy they had before was an angel and should be given a second chance . Tank does this for Dusty , one problem , Tank actually really likes Alexis , the plan backfires when Alexis tells Dusty she would like to continue to see other people . Dusty thinks Tank is still trying to help him while secretly he continues dating Alexis and finding out that he even falls for her just as hard as Dusty does . This movie is hypocritical , sick , and honestly doesn't have any redeemable qualities . I'm supposed to feel bad for Dane Cook's character after he realizes that Alexis is special and because he does one cute thing for her , all that he's put other women through , all he just did to his best friend , all he is putting Alexis through , I'm supposed to like him at the end ? Not to mention Alexis sees him finally moving on after she dumps him , he's with another woman and rudely breaks up their date making a fool out of herself . Dusty moves onto a slutty girl and . . . God , this movie just made me so angry . It has 2 funny giggles , that's about it , I wouldn't really recommend it though . I love movies , if they're aimed for a certain purpose , I cut it a lot of slack , but this movie was just very messy when it came to the story and it just got predictable and stupid .
It's one gigantic fart joke	I am so disappointed , I was actually looking forward to seeing Superhero Movie , I don't know why , I know I'm getting a lot of hate for it , but sometimes I love the stupid comedies . It's like a guilty pleasure for me , like Scary Movie or Meet the Spartans , it's so stupid that it's funny , so naturally I thought Superhero Movie would have been the same . Now there's one thing that could make me absolutely hate a stupid comedy , the over-doing of fart jokes , the gross jokes . I don't mind a quick one sometimes , it's bad taste , but I can deal with 2 seconds and just let it go . But Superhero Movie has a lot of dumb jokes , seriously , within the first 20 minutes of the movie you have a vomit joke , a poop joke , and a fart joke . Not my taste and not what I would consider funny , there are a few things in here that made me laugh , but it's a big disappointment for those who are expecting Scary Movie humor that's actually funny . Rick Riker is a nerd who goes on a field trip with his class , he's in love with this girl , Jill , but isn't noticed by anyone . But on this trip , he is stung by a dragonfly and is given super powers . He learns from his uncle and a strange man , Professor Xavier how he can save the world with these powers . He'll need them to fight against the Hour Glass Man , who wants to kill thousands of innocent people . Would I recommend Superhero Movie ? Not really , it's more of a rental , I'm sad to say that I spent 7 dollars on it . Was it a total waste of time , no , I wouldn't say so , but I just hate gross jokes . There are a few moments where you do laugh , like when Rick walks in and catches a flying nail , his uncle is stunned and Rick says that it's easier than it looks , and then his uncle shoots a nail at Rick's friend and stabs him with it and says " No , it's not " . You might like me get a couple laughs , but I think you'll probably be disappointed like me , unless you're a junior high kid who still likes the fart jokes .
I still know these movies too well	I knew they couldn't make another sequel . It was impossible . Although it had a couple good moments , I wasn't too impressed . I actually was able to predict the ending . That's sad .
Oh , those kids gave me a headache	I was kinda interested in seeing The Hitcher , despite not seeing the original , I figured to give the remake a look . I always love a good slasher flick here or there , so I rented the movie , watched it tonite , and I have to say , oh , those kids were so stupid , I just wanted to jump in the movie and smack them ! The killer played by Sean Bean , he was good , John Ryder was very creepy and did everything right , as a villain should . Those college kids ? Oh , no , don't give them any credit considering how stupid they are , and their perfectly time make out sessions ? Not so much . Grace and Jim are two college kids who are heading to see her friends for spring break , when they almost hit a man who's car is broken down on the road , they leave him there . Later at a gas station they encounter him again , he asks for a lift to a motel and Jim agrees , but the trip turns deadly when " John Ryder " pulls a knife on the couple , but they outsmart him and push him out of the car . But somehow along the line , he just keeps bumping into them and easily tries to frame them for murder , putting them on the run from the hitcher who wants them also dead . So basically throughout most of the movie I was saying the line that the killer wanted Jim to say when he pulled the knife on him , " I want to die ! " . I mean , the girl , Grace , the acting abilities didn't apparently make into the film and the story was just lame . Really , please , don't waste your time , the only thing that was worth watching was John Ryder , many points to Sean Bean , hopefully he'll get blessed with a cast that will actually work with him next time , so he doesn't have to carry the movie .
It didn't work	Ferngully is one of my favorite animated films of all time , I loved watching it while I was growing up , it had great animation , wonderful characters , funny moments , terrific songs , and a touching message . It was such a great movie for kids and I admit that I still watch it to this day . So I figured I would check out the sequel and see if it would be anything like the first Ferngully . Well , it's not just the mismatched voices that disturbed me , but it seemed like this was supposed to be like the TV cartoon that never got lifted off the ground . The story wasn't bad , but without the same voices , it was a bit distracting , and the new characters didn't have the same charm as the first Ferngully . For the kids , at least under age 7 , this film would work for them , but for me , it doesn't . Crysta and her friends are back , Pips is having a bit of a problem excepting his life . He's finding the forest to be a bit boring . But when two evil men come into the forest , they kidnap the baby animals and accidentally burn the forest down . Crysta , Pips , and Batty wanna help restore the forest , Crysta stays home to create her magic while Batty and Pips go to the town to save the baby animals . There Pips meets a pre-teen girl , Twig , and she helps him out to save the baby animals . FernGully 2 : The Magical Rescue isn't really worth the watch , for the kids , yeah , but for those adults who enjoyed the first one , there's no point to it . I think this was just an attempt for the TV cartoon , there were just certain elements that reminded me of the Disney spin off's on TV . But for the kids I would recommend this film , otherwise , just do yourself a favor , save yourself the money or rental . I wish I did , I was hoping for a fun sequel , instead I got Velveeta cheese .
Started off so well and turned into . . . well . . . how to describe ? A total mess !	I was kind of excited to see Silent Hill , it looked totally creepy and just plain exciting to watch . Then I heard some mixed reviews on it , some good , but some pretty bad , like bashing the movie bad . Still , tonite my friend and I needed a movie to watch and we have either seen the new releases or just really didn't want to see the movie in general . Now the pick came down to " The Lake House " or " Silent Hill " . . . you guess how easy that decision came to be . Silent Hill started off so well , a little creepy girl is having nightmares about Silent Hill , a burned down town that is abandoned . The adopted mother naturally wants to help her , so she figures to take her little girl down to Silent Hill to maybe stop the dreams , but ends up in a bad accident after running from a police officer . She wakes up to find herself in a disturbing town and her little girl is gone . The police officer and her decide together to take on Silent Hill to find her daughter , but instead find themselves fighting off something worse , zombies ! But it turns eventually into a total Salem Witch Trial . : PSilent Hill like I said started off so well , but the ending just killed the movie totally . Big twist , ha ! Not to mention that the ending just plain didn't make any sense . I don't know , maybe the fans of the video game might enjoy it , but I can see why now that I didn't get into those games .
I had an open mind and sadly , I didn't enjoy Big Mama's House	I will admit it up front , I really dislike Martin Lawerence , I think despite his comedic appeal , his act is normally hateful . But a couple friends told me that they kinda enjoyed Big Mama's House , so I figured that I should give it a chance . I sometimes like these kind of movies , I especially enjoyed White Chicks , and Big Mama's House seemed simular , so in some ways I guess that I was kinda excited , maybe it was stupid humor that only a few would get or not want to admit that they liked , but I was wrong . Malcom is a FBI agent who is investigating a deadly convict on the run , this convict might be paying a visit to an old girlfriend and their son . The girlfriend decides to go visit Big Mama , her grandmother , but when Big Mama leaves town unexpectidly , Malcom disguises himself as Big Mama and convinces the girl and the whole town that he is her . But he is falling for the girl in the mean time and has to keep his act up as her loving grandmother without going too far . Sometimes stupid , stereotypical , and offensive , I can understand why this movie isn't well received by most . It isn't well acted and it is completely predictable , this is better than most Martin Lawerence films I've seen , but that's not saying much . I'm not sure if I'd recommend this movie to anyone , but who knows ? Someone might actually enjoy this movie , good luck , pal .
Not bad , but not good	O . K . , I'm going to admit . I rented this movie looking for scares . But I will admit it was a good drama . But mostly I got bored . When I thought there was a scary scene coming , and there was nothing , I was like " huh ? " . A lot of confusing scenes . I think they should of left the original scene with Father Merrin being found dead in the Exorcist , and left it up to the audience what happened . Unless they're brain dead . I was curious why they didn't have some other of the original actors in this . Besides Linda Blair . I mean the first movie made a big success . My theory is that when they read the script they couldn't help but fall asleep . I'm sorry , but a sequel to one of the most shocking movie of all time , is supposed to have some kind of scare .
A movie that can only be good by the help of MSTK3	This was a pretty cheesy movie , really . I still can't believe that was Mike Brady ! I saw this movie through " Mystery Science Theater 3000 " and I got the DVD , and if you flip the disc , you get the original movie . Over all , I mean , I've seen worse , seriously . This is fun for a midnight treat for those who love classic horror movies . It's got that classic taste of cheesiness and fun for horror films . This is very close to the book " The Most Dangerous Game " , so I was intrigued by it . I just loved the cheesy acting for the most part . But MSTK3's sarcasm adds so much to the film that makes it very enjoyable to watch . I'm sure other fans agree . So , I would recommend like I said for a midnight type of ordeal when you have nothing better to watch . For some good cheesiness and a fun time , grab the popcorn and watch a former museum keeper hunt down Mike Brady . Movie : and Mystery Science Theater 3000 version :
A 20 foot giant lizard can disappear in New York City ?	Godzilla , one of the major monster classics that we all know and love , mainly of course with the old badly dubbed Japenese films . As badly made those films were , they were still incredibly fun because of all the camp . It was just a good time to watch those movies and Godzilla was just freaky looking and scared the heck out of you . So naturally the men who created the big time special effects movies like Independence Day and Stargate would naturally try and re-create the gigantic lizard and you guessed it , put him in today's New York City . Now who are we going to rely on to save us ? Arnold Schwartzenegger , Syvester Stallone , Bruce Willis , Jackie Chan ? Nope , Ferris Bueller , er , I mean Matthew Broderick . He plays a nerd in this movie , so who better to save us ? Godzilla is barely recongnizable as he is just a CGI love fest where it seems that the creators were not even close to what Godzilla really looked like in the old films . Oh , this was a bad movie . A Japanese fishing ship is attacked by an unseen , giant monster that attacks from below the water : only one sailor survives . Traumatized , he is questioned in a hospital by a French scientist as to what he saw . His only reply is Godzilla . Dr . Nick Tatopoulos , an NRC scientist , researching the effects of radiation on earth worms , is interrupted by the arrival of an agent of the U . S . State Department . He is sent to Panama , escorted by the military , to observe the wreckage of the recovered Japanese fishing ship and a set of massive dinosaur-like footprints in the grassy soil . The Frenchman is also there , observing the scene and introduces himself as an insurance agent . Aboard a military aircraft , Tatopolous identifies skin samples he recovered as belonging to an animal " unknown to science " . He dismisses the military's theory that the creature is a reawakened dinosaur , theorising that its origins in French Polynesia make it a mutant created by nuclear testing . An old man is seen fishing on the dock . He takes a bite from his fishing rod , and a big wave comes toward him after a few minutes of trying to pull in his line . The big wave happens to be Godzilla , and he emerges from the dock . Godzilla then travels to Manhattan and creates havoc in the city , killing dozens of people . Godzilla is revealed to be a gigantic , bipedal lizard that towers over much of the New York skyline . The city is evacuated and the military attempt to kill Godzilla , first luring it out with a huge pile of fish ( the creature's staple diet ) . It takes the bait , but is scared off by small arms fire , but oddly enough , it's just not working on the giant lizard . That's pretty much a good enough " summary " of the movie , there's more in the movie than that , but it's kind of pointless to mention as this movie was just pointless to make . It's just badly written , the special effects are way over the top and obvious to anyone , and the actors are just so out of place it's insane . Now is this the worst movie of all time ? I wouldn't say so , but it is just a bad movie over all , I wouldn't really recommend it . Godzilla just doesn't belong in America , especially since our government is stupid enough to constantly loose a gigantic lizard in NEW YORK CITY ! So I wouldn't recommend this film , it's just a stupid way of killing time , you could be doing more useful things like the dishes .
One of the lamest disaster movies ever made	If I have to deal with any more of Ben Affleck's tears , I am going to scream . Why does he have to cry in all of his roles ? It's irritating . " Armagedden " promises a lot , but doesn't deliver it's title . Usually , you'd expect this huge and great movie . The special effects are the only thing that could get you into the movie . The acting was below average and the story is pretty bad . Bruce Willis was always great with his roles , but even he couldn't save this movie . The ending was beyond cheesey . I think this was one of those movies where you actually voted for the asteroids to win . Please , if you love disaster films , don't see " Armagedden " . It's a waste of time .
Everyone keeps bashing the guys who directed Meet the Spartans and such , what about Andy Tennant ?	Oh , romantic comedies , I don't know why , but it seems like everyone is just being fooled into thinking these movies are original and funny . When I saw trailer for Fool's Gold , the first thing I thought was " Lemme sum up the movie for you . . . " and I did for my friends , they think I'm horrible for it , but I was right , everything that I said came true when I saw this movie . The reason why I saw it was because I got to see it for free and figured , just go ahead and give the movie a chance , sometimes I am a little too harsh on these films . So I went in with an open mind , nope , I was right , while this film was A LITTLE better than what I expected , it still was true to what I thought it was going to be . I was so blinded by everyone's tans , it was a bit insane , not to mention the horrible performances as well as cliché's . Ben and Tess are divorced , Tess is fed up with her husband spending all his time trying to find a treasure they've been searching for for years . But Ben is still very much in love with Tess and begs her to go for one last adventure with him , they go together with the help of Tess's boss , Nigel Honeycutt and his bimbo daughter , Gemma , to find the treasure . But of course there is always a villain who wants the treasure for evil purposes . The cliché's , Gemma , Tess's boss's daughter , she's a bimbo who acts like a total moron but is beautiful and sweet , blah blah blah and regains her friendship with her estranged dad . Ben and Tess , realistically , would they get back together ? Let's say yes , but they'll be divorced again in a couple months . The script was horrible and the story just wasn't presented well and the actors were all wrong , I wouldn't recommend this film at all . Everyone is complaining about the Meet the Spartans directors and that those movies are " dumbing " down society , what about these lousy romantic comedies ? Please , these movies are over done and are so over .
The last and the worst in the Nerd series	I bought the " atomic wedgie " edition of Revenge of the Nerds , it had all the sequels in it , so I watched Revenge of the Nerds 2 and 3 today before the fourth one , and I was actually surprised . Despite their bad rating , I really enjoyed them , sure they weren't as good as the first , but they had their laughs . So I was looking forward to Revenge of the Nerds IV : Nerds in Love , because I figured that if I liked the other sequels , I would like this one , but it turned out to be different . Despite the fact that there were a couple of laughs , for the most part this was just a recycled story that really didn't work or click as well as the other stories did . Booger is finally settling down , that's right , the perverted nose picker is tying the knot . Now he's not just marrying some girl , but she comes from a very important and rich family where her father is involved in politics . But her father and brother in-law absolutely hate Booger on site and are anti-nerd . So naturally they want to ruin the wedding by getting some dirt on Booger . But his friends , including best man , Lewis , are determined to make sure that everything goes smoothly and give the father and brother in-law a new perspective on nerds in love . Revenge of the Nerds IV : Nerds in Love isn't the worst movie on Earth , but it's just the worst movie in the Nerds series , so I really wouldn't recommend it . It just wasn't needed since the story was so bland and reused from the other films , if it was completely different , it might have worked , but it was just the same jokes . However I did laugh a couple times still , I can't help it , these guys do crack me up , so I'm going to be kind with my rating , at least I think it is with how much of a waste of a good story was on this sequel .
Gag fest	I don't know why , but my best friend talked me into seeing this movie . As you have probably read in my other comments , I will repeat , I hate Claire Danes . She annoys me to death . But , I was willing to give the movie a chance . And I still didn't like it . The chance is 1 in a million that I love feel good movies . Or chick flicks . And I'm a girl . I just didn't like the movie .
I feel like I'm taking crazy pills ! Are you guys serious that you fell for this again ?	When I saw the trailer for 27 Dresses , I was like " Oh , my God , not again " , typical plot , chick flick written all over it with over cheesy dialog and unrealistic situations that sadly I can completely predict . But thanks to the wonderful users of IMDb who gave this movie great reviews . My friend begged me to go see this with her , so I figured since she was treating and it was getting good reviews , it might be worth a look , so we saw it today , and I think my friend hates me , because I told her what would happen in the next scene and it would happen . This romantic comedy genre , doesn't anyone realize that these stupid plots are just recycled from one romantic comedy to the next ? ! The only thing they do is a " twist " , a wedding planner , a hotel maid , a treasure hunter , blah , blah , blah . The actors couldn't even save this film . Jane is a girl who has been in 27 weddings , she's so used to always putting others before herself . Her little sister , Tess , even steals her crush , George , and lies her way into making him love her . They get engaged and now Jane is once again the maid of honor , torture , huh ? But guess what ? There is a guy who surprisingly drives her insane , Kevin , a journalist who is writing an article on Tess and George and also secretly Jane's randevu's with her passion for " always a bride's maid , never a bride " routine . But of course they somehow fall for each other and break up when she finds out about the article , please tell me you get it from this point ? Because you should if you've seen any other romantic comedy . 27 Dresses is a joke , I'm sorry , I know that's harsh , but these romantic comedies are very evil and manipulative in leading young girls onto what they think love is going to be or should be , or whatever . Sounds bitter , but do you honestly think that these movies are realistic or funny ? It's so incredibly rare that we get a funny romantic comedy that is original and funny . Katherine Heigl is coming strong with her career , true , but I'm not impressed with her character choice . Jane's act on her little sister was a little too immature at the engagement party and she sunk to her sister's level , not to mention , why couldn't we have had just a regular , smart sister instead of a slut ? It's just too common and predictable , seriously . The dialog " I get to have hot sex with random strangers and feel so much better " ? Seriously , I'm just sick of romantic comedies , why aren't you ? Trust me , this is not worth the look unless you fall for it each time .
All I know is that the girl had huge boobs and couldn't be taken seriously	I was kinda looking forward to seeing how they ended the Candyman trilogy and the story actually looked entertaining . I remember when I was younger getting a peek at the movie on HBO , but I think I remember falling asleep , so it was at least something I could put to rest of what the rest of the movie was about . Candyman 3 : Day of the Dead turned out to be an ordinary sequel with nothing to remember and it wasn't up to par with the original Candyman . Caroline , the great great grand daughter of Candyman , is still haunted by the dreams of what her family and Candyman had to go through . No one believes her of course that he is still real , Candyman is back though and he is murdering her friends one by one while she gets the blame . She tries to uncover the legend and figure out what he wants from her , but she might end up loosing the only true friend of her's . This film was sadly typical and even for a horror movie it was plain pathetic , I do like a little cheesiness every once in a while , but for a great story like Candyman , this was really sad . Well , I can see why they didn't make a fourth installment to the Candyman series , big surprise there . Well , at least I'm done . . . or am I ? Insert cynical laughter here
Good thing it wasn't just me that didn't like this movie , because I was so bored !	My friend wanted to watch a movie and decided to rent Freedomland since I had seen all the recently released flicks , I wasn't too interested , but I figured to give the movie a chance , I'm usually up for anything . But I have to say that Freedomland couldn't decide on what story to stick upon , not to mention the " big surprise ending " wasn't that much of a surprise . The story is totally confusing and I don't see how this movie even has a 4 . 9 rating to be quite honest . It starts off with Julianne Moore going into the hospital with bloody hands , Samuel L . Jackson is a detective and finds out that her car has been stolen with her son in it ! During a huge crisis in their bad neighborhood , murders happening left and right , and then trying to focus on Julianne's son , it was just too much , I'm letting you know right now . Freedomland could've had good potential , and I don't mind Julianne Moore , but she seemed so miscast in the film and actually seemed like an amateur . The only person worth watching was Samuel and he wasn't even that big of a deal , I'm warning you right now , you'll have to watch this movie a few times before you actually understand the plot , because I really didn't understand anything that happened in this film .
Also known as Karate Kid Part 2	This plot was just too similar to Karate Kid Part 2 , it was just so stupid . But I rented these movies for my cousin because for some reason , he enjoys them . But I can see why , I mean it has kid's humor and a happy ending . My only problem though was the fact that once again there were three idiot's who were the " Rockers " and couldn't harm one kid because as usual , they're too stoned to realize what's going on . The villain seems harmless and just happens to have a change of heart like the Karate Kid movies , mainly Part 2 . If you've seem ' em too , you know what I mean . While the 3 Ninja movies are good for the kids , I have to admit even for them , it's still a little too silly .
You know if you pretend you know what's going on , this is actually pretty exciting	" Anaconda " , " Anaconda " , what can you say ? Bad CGI effects , bad acting , and a stupid plot . I mean the movie isn't so bad , I've seen plenty worse . But this movie seemed to loose something . I had a very open mind to it , but it was so predictable . I'm serious ! You know who's going to die , you know what is going to happen , and you just want to scream at these stupid characters . I wouldn't really recommend this movie , because it is very predictable . But some people may enjoy that . That and Jennifer Lopez . I'm not sure why , her booty doesn't seem that big . : D Over all , not horrible , but not the greatest movie . But , I'm going to be nice . Trust me ! That's nice !
It lost the originality somewhere	I somewhat enjoyed " Resurrection " , but didn't at the same time . Even though I'm not a fan of the first " Alien " , I will never doubt that the story was original . " Aliens " was highly entertaining and original at the same time . " Alien 3 " was an alright movie , with a few disappointments . But now I finish up these movies with a pretty bad ending . I think that " Alien : Resurrection " was trying to get back to the original . But it just couldn't . Even though I worship Joss Whendon on his very awesome screenplays , this movie couldn't work . I'm sorry , Joss ! Please , get back to Buffy ! Ahem . Sorry , I'm still traumatized ! : D But I would recommend " Resurrection " to finish of the movies . Otherwise for a watch , na . I'd rather not .
Didn't really get it , nore do I think I wanted to get it	Kevin Spacey is my favorite actor of all time , he is without a doubt on other's lists as well when it comes to great actors . He even pulled off a good Irish accent in Ordinary Decent Criminal as well . But Kevin Spacey , as a Mafia leader ? Or even a burglar ? I'm not so sure he could go that far . The movie to me just didn't make any sense and the some of the story just didn't feel solved to me . I know once again that IMDb is going to make me write ten more lines . But I'm not so sure on what I could say about this movie because I am still trying to figure it out . Silly , isn't it ? But I'm pretty sure that more than a few of you IMDb users have been in the same predicament as I am in right now where you just want to say a line or two about a movie , but now you have to do ten lines ? Wow , that should do it . :
What were they thinking ?	I mean did the cast and crew really look at the script and thought that this was a fantastic movie ? Open Water was a pretty good and horrific movie that over all worked and many people enjoyed . With this sequel , while it wasn't too awful , it just could have been a thousand times better . Because the plot in some ways worked , how they forgot to put the ladder out on the boat , but it seems like like they didn't react the way normal people would act in the first 10 minutes , they were so quickly jumping on each other . Not to mention the story with the girl Amy with her dad drowning was good , but they played too much on it and some of the camera shots were a little unusual . Basically , 6 friends are celebrating a birthday , 4 of these friends have known each other for a while and haven't seen each other for 5 years , so it's a reunion for them . They go on their friend , Dan's yacht , and when they decide to go for a swim , they fail to remember the ladder and are stuck out in the water with no way to get back onto the boat . They quickly turn on each other and are getting very fatally injured one by one , while Amy's baby is on board crying and they have no way of reaching land or getting back on . It just seemed like over all the crew were amateurs and the story could have worked a lot better , I know just how I would have made it , like the story of Amy and her dad could have been told and not shown , the slow motion shots were out of no where and didn't keep my interest going . Like I said , I think it's a good idea , just not executed right , but please help yourself if you enjoyed the first one .
I'd rather swallow a jawbreaker whole	I know a lot of people are saying " Then why did you watch the movie ? " I was watching my cousins and they wanted to rent this movie very badly . I figured , it's a typical teen flick , so why not ? This movie is meant for no one . I mean , it's OK to watch , but it's definitely not worthy of any sort of awards or praise . It's a dark teen " comedy " , that's for sure . The thing about the movie that got me ticked off was how unrealistic it was . I mean , there was no justice , period ! The acting was terrible and the plot was very unoriginal . I wouldn't really recommend this movie , unless you're into that " Dawson's Creek " B . S .
You know , it's just amazing how Ice Cube gets out of these deadly situations with no more than a scratch	Now , how does Ice Cube get the lead name before William Defoe and Sameul L . Jackson ? Also , I was just amazed that he could land a water boat perfectly on a cop car and escape 20 machine guns all aiming at him , I just assumed they must have pressed the " miss " button on their guns , because that's just plain impossible . This movie also felt like an episode of MTV's " Pimp my Ride " . You wonder why Vin Diesel turned down such an amazing movie ? Well , since he turned it down , they killed him off like he was a piece of trash . Now , like the first " XXX " , I said it was a cool movie to watch , and while same with the second XXX is very entertaining , it's just such an incredibly silly movie that is totally unrealistic . I know the first one was as well , but at least it was more fun to watch in my opinion . I wouldn't really watch this flick again , but at least I can say I saw it and don't have to see it again since I didn't enjoy it as much as the first .
Well , I took the cover's advice , held my breath , and I ended up in the hospital !	What seemed pretty promising , turned into a total mess of a film . I remember when Vertical Limit came out , I was 15 and wanted to see it , but my friends never wanted too . Eventually , I forgot about it , but recently , I was renting movies and came across it and remembered how much I wanted to see it . So , finally , I got to see what this exciting movie was all about . Well , take the word exciting and replace it with waste of time . Now the plot isn't bad , a sister and brother loose their father in a climbing adventure gone bad , and now the sister has decided to climb one of the world's tallest mountains , but an avalanche causes her and two other of her team members to get trapped and are left to freeze to death . But the brother decides to take matters into his own hands and takes a team up there to free them . Special effects were good and that's about it . The plot itself , was really twisted and got turned into an unneeded drama fest . It could have worked well , but honestly , this movie was badly miscasted in my opinion . Certain disaster movies work despite their cliché's , but Vertical Limit , well , it reached it's limit and went past it .
Just take " American Pie " and a couple good jokes and you've got " The Girl Next Door "	I was expecting too much . This looked hilerious in the trailer . I was excited to rent it . But I was a little disappointed . Even though I was kind of happy there were no in your face potty humor , it still didn't get me . I laughed a couple times . This has just been done a million times . I understand there are homages . And I'm sure the director wanted to honor some teen sex comedies . But I've seen to many of them to get into this . Over all , it's not a bad movie . To be honest , I'd rather watch this than " American Pie " . " American Pie " was very gross . This has it's moments . So , I would recommend to anyone above the age of 18 . Otherwise , it's just a porn movie with some kind of a story .
They just can't do it	The reason I rented this movie is because , John Wayne Gacy is a legend over at my old high school , because two of his victims were my teacher's students . So , there would always be questions . The house was just a couple blocks down from our school and we'd ask about Gacy himself and what he was like . It wasn't really like what we heard when I saw the movie . The movie does tell in the beginning that some of the events they came up with were fictional . To tell the truth , I don't think the reason why this movie wasn't effective is because of the fact that Gacy was so brutal with these boys . It couldn't be shown what he did to them . So , the movie itself isn't that great . I'd rather go and visit my old school and just ask the teachers that were there when this happened .
Normally , I love these action flicks , but . . .	Well , I was kind of disappointed with the third Rambo . To be honest , I just wasn't interested in it and I did watch it in a very good mood . I was excited because I love these action flicks , they're very exciting and fun to watch . But Rambo just didn't have his edge any more in my opinion . Yes , he's supposed to be emotionless , but it seemed like Sylvester didn't get into the actual role of Rambo this time . With a change of events when in the first Rambo movie the Colernal saves Rambo from himself , Rambo now must save the Colernal from getting killed by Russian terrorists . Good idea , right ? Well , it seemed so , but it just flopped . I know this is also a little off subject , but it also didn't seem politically correct by today's standards , I know ! I know ! This was an 80's movie , how could they possibly know what Afghanastan is today ? But still , I kind of snickered at the end when they had a dedicated to message . I mean over all , this wasn't the worst movie I had ever seen . But it's just not that good either , like I said , Rambo completely lost his edge and doesn't seem that cool any more . Sylvester needs to relax and get off the ego trip , we already know how tough he is , he doesn't need to try so hard . So , I'd recommend this film if you want to finish the Rambo trilogy , otherwise it's not really worth your time .
To be honest , I felt awkward watching this movie	I have heard a lot about Swingers and how funny it is , in fact I had a friend almost yell at me when he found out that I have seen so many movies but I have not seen Swingers . So , obviously , I had to save the friendship , : P , so I went out to rent this . I am going to feel so bad about what to tell my friend because I really didn't get too into Swingers . I can see why this is a cult classic , I would never deny that it wasn't a good movie . I just really didn't laugh , there were a couple moments where I laughed very lightly , that was it . But the scene where Mike calls that girl Niki like 10 times to leave stupid messages , I laughed , but it was just so painful to watch . Now , I love Vince Vaughn , he is just a crazy and funny comedic actor , but I found him to be a little bit annoying in this movie . I don't mind repeated lines every once in a while , but " money " was just way too over used . Like I said , I'm not calling this a bad movie , because I can see why people got so into it , but I just didn't really enjoy it . I might give it a second shot just to see if there is anything there . Hopefully there is , otherwise my friend might question my expertise in movies . :
Well , now that Hostel is out . . . I guess every director figures they could do a better job	I was interested in seeing Turistas , from the trailer , it looked pretty scary , and I'm not afraid to admit it , I liked Hostel , it was really intense and scary . But this was just a rip off , only this time it took place in Brazil instead of Europe . The whole story could have been something better , even if it was similar to Hostel , it could have had something special to it , that's all . The problem was , not only the acting , the actors having no chemistry , but the story just didn't work , nore was the villain convincing enough . It seemed like the story was just in a rush with things and had so many plot holes . 5 friends are traveling through Brazil , but when their bus crashes and they have to wait for another one . Another traveler , Pru , helps them points out that they took the wrong bus , but that there is a bar on a beach that they could check out while waiting for another bus . But things go terribly wrong when the gang wakes up from a night of partying , and they have been robbed . They go to a village to get some help , but unfortunately , they are led to a remote house where things could get from worse to . . . well , just a very serious and deadly situation . I think this film tried to upstage Hostel in gore and story , but all in all , it didn't work . The killer seems to be just like a little kid who got picked on too much and when he got older , he went on a power trip . Not only that , but the characters were completely unsympathetic , except for Pru , and the story was too silly and not well thought out . I wouldn't really recommend Turistas , it's just a stupid rip off of Hostel .
OK , if there is a cover of a crocodile , I'm expecting the crocodile to make more than a 5 minute appearance	I have no idea why , but from the cover and short summary in back , I thought that Primevil might have been an entertaining horror film . I'm not really into crocodile stories , they usually don't work , but for some reason this one looked very promising . When I started watching it , I kept checking the cover just to make sure I was on track , but the story just seemed to get lost somewhere . Now I don't mind different stories , but the cover promised something else and I wasn't even really that entertained or moved by the story . Basically there is a killer crocodile in Africa , apparently he is a big one to be very frightened of . So an American crew of reporters wish to capture the beast or get him on film so they can help these villages and become famous more so . But there is another major problem that takes the story to a completely different place , where there is a huge war going on and starts to terrorize these reporters and one by one they are killed off before the crocodile gets to them . Primevil would have had good potential for a horror movie , but it just went in an intense turn where you had no idea where the film would take you . The script was also in some ways done in poor taste and wasn't well thought out , like I'm not offended easily usually when it comes to racial jokes , but Orlando going on about slavery in Africa went a little too far and was ridiculous . The acting is so so , not the worst I've seen , but the effects are not that impressive , a warning in advance . But if you would like to check out this film , please feel free , but I wouldn't really recommend it .
It tries too hard	Linda Blair was having trouble dealing with the typecast of " Regan McNeil " or as we all know her " The Exorcist Girl " . I don't blame her . So , she does the only thing she can think of and parodies her character . Thinking that she could get people to laugh at her character and let it go . Not a bad idea . . . until she picked up this script and thought it could succeed . " Repossessed " tries way too hard to make people laugh . It took the typical jokes that everyone knows about " The Exorcist " and ruined it . I can't even begin to know why they would want to destroy such a classic . I'm sorry , but this was a very stupid movie .
I know this is considered a classic , but I couldn't stop laughing	I'm sorry , but for a movie that has been so stamped as a semi classic and a scary movie , but seriously , I think when the director has me laughing unintentionally , that's not a good thing . The characters in this film were just so over the top and unbelievable . I just couldn't stop laughing at Issac's voice , it was just like a high pitched whiny girl's British voice . Not to mention Malicai's over dramatic stick up his butt character . Children of the Corn is about a town where all the children have killed off the adults and worship a God that commands them to sacrifice any 20 + aged people . When a couple has a bad car accident they come to the town for help , but of course they get caught in the kid's trap and are getting sacrificed ! But Malicai has other intentions when he is sick of following Issac's orders . Children of the Corn could've been something great , but turned into a bad over the top movie that you could easily make fun of . As much as I love Stephen King , I'm sure this is not what he intended and it was a pretty lame story , or at least the actors destroyed it . Like I said , for a good laugh , watch it , but I'm warning you , it's pretty pathetic .
Just an excuse to show nudity	Now I recently had the viewing pleasure to watch the hilarious comedy Bachelor Party , one of my new favorite comedies , laughed until it just hurt type of movies . So I naturally wanted to see the sequel , hoping it would have the same laughs , but instead Bachelor Party 2 : The Last Temptation is made by the American Pie generation where it's tasteless and defeats the hole purpose of the first film . Yeah , the first film has nudity , but it doesn't show in every single scene . Also the plot is exactly the same from the first , it's not always a complaint with me , but this could have been a little more original . The only thing is that I'm glad that at least no old actors from the original appear in this movie , because it would have been cheesy or really silly looking . Ron and Melinda are engaged , after only 2 months of dating , everyone is against it . Melinda has a rich family , but they're pretty happy with Ron , and Melinda's brother , Todd is scared that Ron will take his job . So they go out on a weekend to Miami for a bachelor party and Todd is going to make sure that he'll trap Ron into a picture that will make Melinda change her mind about the marriage . Bachelor Party 2 : The Last Temptation has a couple laughs here and there , but over all fails to deliver what the first film accomplished . These guys , Ron's friends , were more obnoxious than likable , except for Seth , he was kinda funny . The only likable characters other than Seth is Ron and Melinda , everyone else just more or less gets on your nerves . You wanna watch this film ? Just watch Girls Gone Wild , it's the same thing only it doesn't try to pretend that it's a film . Stick to the original Bachelor Party , that's the movie that's going to get you in tears of laughter .
Eh , Cruel Intentions was a lot better than this	When I watched this film , I was expecting it to have a lot of excellent and intelligent parts like in Cruel Intentions . But when I watched it , this was stupid . Katherine has a club with sex fiends ? How lame is that ? It's just really dumb . And Sebastion , I think personally , it would of been better if he was just bad all along . His character , I just couldn't stand him . He's TRYING to change , yet he can't resist . They use a lot of the same lines from the first one , which is really cheesy . And with the chick that Katherine wants to destroy , Sebastion just pulls her in a limo , and they do it ? I'm sorry , but this was just too stupid , and not nessesary . Cruel Intentions was 1000 times better than this . I must say that they really did a bad job on making the characters looking like the original . Because I did not know that Katherine had blond hair , and Sebastion had brown . bad , bad , bad !
Glad to know that I just didn't understand the film	I kinda watched this film in a bad mood hoping for a good laugh , Leslie Neilson always makes me laugh . Especially parody movies , since I wasn't into 2001 : A Space Odessey , I thought that this was a fun looking movie that would make fun of that film . Well , it turned into something pretty bad , I really couldn't find myself laughing at any of the situations , which is sad , because I find the stupidest situations very funny and I am easily amused . But I was curious if maybe it was my bad mood that killed the comedy for me , but I looked on IMDb before watching it again and it's not just me apparently . Well , a some what take off of the Naked Gun series , only in outer space situations , Leslie is now Dick Dix , a clumsy detective that is sent to a planet called Vegan where he learns that President Clinton has been kidnapped and cloned and that the clone is on Earth with bad intentions for the world . Or as it seems , Dick actually plants the clone by accident and well . . . it just wasn't funny . The jokes tried too hard and the story was just weak , it could have been something special , but unfortunately they took too much advantage of the Naked Gun series , which was pretty sad . I know Leslie can do much better and he has , so I forgive him . For those users who are looking for a recommendation here , I'm not going to give you one because like I said , I thought it was just me that didn't like the film , but I think the rating is enough warning in itself .
I thought the hairy kid in school was the weird one	I mean seriously . LOL . They didn't become more popular and get laid . In fact quite the opposite . LOL . OK , on to the movie . " Teen Wolf " was a typical 80's flick . Put a little camp and spoof in the mix . And throw in some Michael J . Fox , and you've got " Teen Wolf " . It's an OK movie . Nothing really special . It was pretty memorable for it's time though . Michael J . Fox . What can I say about the guy ? He's come a long way . But he was pretty entertaining in the film . I've only seen this a couple times . And they've both been on TV . So , I haven't seen the non-edited version . But I got the idea of what they cut out . If you enjoy 80's movies , you might get into it . But don't expect too much .
I know the perfect title for the next one : " I actually forgot what you did last summer ! " : -	I really had to laugh last month when I saw the cover of this movie last month , I mean , how many sequels can there be ? Not to mention titles ? But I couldn't help it , I mean , I was curious . It would be nice to finish a trilogy , or quadrilogy God forbid . I mean , with this movie though , all they needed to do was take the original script , add modern technology , and change the names , we have " I'll always know what you did last summer " . It's so weird to think the first one was made almost a decade ago , huh ? Well , now we have a new gang who took a prank too far and one of their friends makes a tragic turn for the worst and gets killed . The friends of course take the secret to the death that they had nothing to do with it , making their lives filled with " dirty little secrets " that could get them killed . A year later , the friends reunite , finding out , on a tacky note , instead of a letter , a girl gets a text message saying " I Know What You Did Last Summer " . One by one the friends are killed off to a terrible ending that just ridiculed the other two movies . It's an alright horror movie , it has it's cliché moments of course , but I think most horror movie fans could have fun , but this was beyond silly and couldn't compare really to the first I Know What You Did Last Summer movie , it just isn't anything without the original cast . But you judge and decide for yourself , and come up with the next sequel's title , it makes for a fun game .
Pretty pathetic	I was kinda looking forward to seeing Space Jam , ever have since I was a kid , but for some reason I never got the opportunity to see it . Well , my friend owned the movie and lent it to me , I love Looney Toons , they're just so cool and funny and I remember being a huge fan of the Chicago Bulls , so I was very excited to see this film . There is one thing I forgot , this is not 1996 , the height of popularity for Michael and The Bulls and this movie seemed like a cheap publicity stunt . Michael is playing himself from the time where his father had died in that car accident and decided to join a baseball team , despite the fact that it's not the Sox represented in the film , which is the team he really played for . But the toons are invaded by aliens who want them for their amusement park in space . They challenge them to a basketball game , of course the toons suck , so they ask for Michael's help . Over all , Space Jam is just a cheap thrill for some , but for me it really wasn't all that . I was really disappointed and not to mention , keep Michael away from the big screen , because I hate to spill the beans , he's not that good of an actor . It's a pretty bad film , even if it is for kids .
I can name 5 good movies that could have been made with this budget	Despite some bad reviews of Miami Vice that I heard from my friends , I decided to check it out anyways , I mean , everyone has different tastes and I didn't know if I would like it or not . I was really young , in fact , a new born , when the series hit it's peak of popularity . But my mom and dad would watch it every once in a while and I remember some reruns when I was a kid and I loved how much of a bright and cool series Miami Vice was . And let's face it , Miami Vice is nothing without shoulder pads , bright colors , cheesy lines , and Don Johnson ! I'll explain in a moment why I didn't enjoy Miami Vice and why people should probably stay away from it . Sonny and Ricco , in an updated version ( sad , isn't it ? ) of Miami Vice , with cool cars , cell phones , and sleazy clothing that made Collin Ferrel look like a sleazy child molester , we get involved in their personal lives and now they have to go undercover for a sleazy drug lord , but they get deeper than they thought , especially when Sonny falls for one of the women that they are doing business with . But of course , you can figure out from what I just described where the story is pretty much going . Miami Vice the show was a bright , funny , and witty TV series that everyone loved because of how cheesy it was and how it didn't take itself so seriously , but Miami Vice the movie took the story and made it dark and just wasn't needed . Like I said in the title , there are so many movies out there that deserve a better budget , and this movie somehow because some big name stars are in it , just get bigger salaries . Miami Vice is very confusing and not worth your time , just stick to the fun TV Series , it's nothing with the shoulder pads !
I found it very dull	" American Psycho " did not excite me what so ever . I have read the book and loved it . So , I was looking forward to watching the movie . I knew my mother had it , so I watched it . I was appauled . I know that they couldn't stick too close to the book , otherwise it would have been a " X " rated film . But , I felt like the movie was too short . And the murders were too plain . Not what I could've imagined in a movie . They could've gone a little further . I guess this movie in some way reminded me too much of " Clockwork Orange " . I will admit , the movie was wonderfully made . But for me , this was not a movie I'd be into . I'd rather stick to the book .
" Come on , no one's that southern ! "	Squirm is a film that I first saw on Mystery Science Theater 3000 and I absolutely love that episode . It was just a terrific and hilarious one that will always give me a good laugh . Now believe it or not , I later found this film in the 5 dollar bin at Wal Mart and figured , why not ? This movie was just so laughable , why not watch it and make up my own sarcasm . Well , when I watched the uncut version , actually I have to in some ways admit that this wasn't the worst film ever made , worthy of MST3K sarcasm , but I would say that the problems are minor and the film just needs a band-aid , lol . The music and southern accents are just a bit much . Mick is coming to Fly Creek for a good country vacation and meeting an old friend , Geri . There was a nasty storm the night before and electricity hit the ground hard causing the worms to turn into killers . Mick and Geri , along with her creepy neighbor who is a mixture of Steve Young and Alvin the Chipmunk have to learn how to deal with it . But the worms are going to destroy the town and hopefully tone down the southern accents . Squirm isn't necessarily a bad movie , well , I think it's one of those movies that it's so bad that it's actually good . Just the way the actors present a lot of the lines are a little distracting and get a good unintentional laugh like " Yer gonna be da worm face ! " was said a little oddly . This is a great Mystery Science Theater 3000 episode I would recommend , but as a film , it's worth a look if you're into a cheesy drive in flick type of movie , otherwise , don't expect too much .
Friday the 13th : Part 20 . . . I mean 17 . . . I mean . . . whatever !	Friday the 13th Part VII : The New Blood : sequel number 7 in the Friday the 13th series , I feel like I've come such a long way , you know ? But I believe I've hit what you would call the down fall of the series . The stories are just getting worse and worse , while like I've said in my other comments on Friday the 13th series where they deliver : bad acting , sex , drugs , the normal bad behavior that makes Jason go crazy and on his killer rampage . But this story is just insulting to the mind and is insulting to the series , I mean , it almost takes a Carrie appeal offering us to believe that some kid has psychic powers , I was expecting pig's blood to be poured on Jason and for him to go on his killer rampage . Everything seems to be going fine at Camp Crystal Lake since Tommy has chained Jason to the bottom of the lake . But when Tina and her family go to the camp , they are going to expect something different when Jason escapes and goes on his typical killing spree . But also Jason should expect something different when Tina is proved to have psychic powers . Friday the 13th Part VII : The New Blood is definitely a low point in the series , it's pretty lame and not even so cheesy where it's good again . But the film once again has some very awesome kills as usual , my favorite was definitely Jason punches a kid so hard that his hand goes through his chest , ultimate gore , I just love it . I just can't believe that I still have 3 more Friday the 13th movies to watch , but I hope they do get better if Friday the 13th Part VII : The New Blood is anything to stand by .
Strange cast	A little over a month ago , I saw Wild Wild West at Target for $4 . 50 , I heard horrible things about the film , but I figured , it's the rental price , sometimes these movies are not as bad as most say . So I went ahead and bought it , my mistake , I watched it tonite and wasn't really impressed . I mean , while it's a little better than what most would say , it does fall flat with too many fancy effects and Will Smith almost has a love affair with himself in this film . Now Will Smith is one of those rare actors that you can tell on screen as well as off that he has a huge ego , but everyone still loves him because he has a charm and such a presence on screen , he's easy to forgive . However , even though I am not a fan of The Matrix , he turned down The Matrix for this ? ! What the heck was he thinking ? This movie was just very average and held nothing special . Jim West is a war hero who is just loving life as it's loving him right back , he's pretty much won everything he's been handed . Artemus Gordon is a master of disguise and a genius , so when an evil master mind , Loveless , threatens to take over , President Grant partners Artemus and Jim together who of course at first have no chemistry and have to capture Loveless . When a can can girl comes into play , who wants to save " her father " , she helps them track down Loveless and they must come up with a clever idea to defeat him . Now , Wild Wild West isn't a bad film , it's just made a little strange . Like the cast , Will Smith may be charming , but this movie , he comes off more of a jerk than a smooth cowboy . Selma Hayek , beautiful girl , strange role to take on , the accent was a little distracting I'd say , not to mention I wasn't really impressed with the " acting qualities " she has . Now , for a family film , this isn't a bad idea , it's cute in some moments and funny in others , but for a film on entertainment that you're just looking for a good time ? I wouldn't really recommend it .
Jumby wants to be in a better movie	Well at least the trailer was scary , from the moment I saw the trailer for The Unborn I knew I wanted to see this movie , it looked so freaky and like the ultimate scare . So before it left theaters , I finally saw it and I should've realized , it's PG-13 , how rare is it that we get a PG-13 horror movie that is actually scary ? Sadly all the " intense " moments were shown in the trailer and I was extremely disappointed with this lousy movie . I couldn't believe how bad it was , it once again has every cliché in a horror film that you can imagine : the black best friend , the loving boyfriend , the hot skinny girl who is constantly in her underwear , the jumps , the mirrors , the nightmares , the over acting . I do have one question : did Gary Oldman owe someone a favor when he took this film ? It's just mind-boggling , he's this terrific actor and he was in this really predictable stupid story ? Well , hopefully he'll recover soon from this sad excuse for a horror film . Casey Beldon is plagued by merciless dreams , visions of strange looking dogs , and an evil child with bright blue eyes . Casey is baby-sitting Matty , her neighbor's son . He is upstairs , supposedly taking a nap . Casey is downstairs talking on the phone to her best friend Romey . Suddenly , there is a voice that says " Jumby wants to be born now , " on the baby monitor used for Matty's baby sister . After yelling , " Matty , are you awake ? " Casey goes upstairs to check on them . Matty was standing over the baby's crib , holding a mirror to the baby's face . After being hit with the mirror , Casey's eyes begin to change color and she learns she had a twin brother who died in the womb . Casey begins to suspect that the spirit haunting her is the soul of her dead twin , being possessed by a dybbuk , wanting to be born so it can transfer to the world of the living . Casey meets a woman named Sofi , who is revealed to be her grandmother . Sofi explains that she had a twin brother who was killed in Nazi experiments in Auschwitz when they were both just children . The boy was brought back to life by a dybbuk who intended to use his body as a portal into the world of the living . Sofi killed her twin to stop the dybbuk , and now it haunts her family for revenge . Sofi refers Casey to Rabbi Sendak , who can perform a Jewish exorcism to remove the dybbuk . This was a huge disappointment , I wouldn't really recommend it . The acting and writing were over done , what could have made this more realistic or scary is just a touch up on the writing . The lead actress Odette Yustman really needs experience , she was just alright in the film . Of course I love the cliché of the crazy black best friend who calls her crazy at first but then all of a sudden is attacked at last second . If you do watch this , if you want a good scare , turn on the lights , I admit there are still some freaky moments , better than most of the PG-13 horror movies , but the story was just bad . It just could have been a lot better .
Nothing to get excited over	I love John Travolta . I think he is without a doubt one of the best actors in the world . His films are usually pretty good sometimes even great . But him portraying Michael . It just got scary . Who knew that angels were perverted well dancing slobs ? I know we all have our visions of what angels are like . But seriously , I don't think we ever expected this . The film is OK . The story is kinda boring . After a while , you want to turn the movie off . But there are some good moments . But I wouldn't really recommend this . It's nothing special . And if you have a beautiful vision of what an angel is like , stay away . Your vision will be tarnished . : )
Would've been better with Arnie or Sylvester	I love action flicks , even the big macho one's . Sometimes you just have to have a senseless violent action flick to escape reality . I was kind of looking forward to " Under Siege " . I've never seen a Seigal film . But seriously this was just way way way too predictable , which a lot of macho flicks are , but at least they have some comedy or fun action sequences to it . First off , the girl who played Miss July , goes from a stupid naked blonde bimbo to a Rambo street smart strong woman ? Uh huh . Then Siegal , he tries his comedy jokes , but they were too dry . And the villain , Tommy does good , but he's not too convincing of a bad guy . Over all , I just thought that this was beyond predictable and not that enjoyable . It just copied off of Die Hard , only at sea . This is one action flick I would not really recommend .
Nah	Wow , why didn't we just put the actors in the CGI themselves ? That's all this movie was missing . Well , while Sky Captain touches the classic film noir , it looses it majorly within the special effects . Let's face it , this movie had stars in it and was just a way of getting people to come to the movie because of it's staring cast . In my opinion this movie just was not entertaining . Wither it was because of the special effects or the story in general , I don't know , but I wouldn't watch this film again . Nor would I really recommend it unless you are highly into CGI effects .
It was a good movie , but I didn't enjoy it	OK , my sister lent me this movie saying that it was definatly one of the best films of all time . And I even saw on IMDB that it's in the top 100 . So , I figure that I'd give it a shot . When the movie started I thought it was ok . But there were a couple things I didn't understand . But I got past it . In the middle of the movie when they capture Malcom's character , Alex , I thought " Is this the end ? " To tell the truth I was bored . It kept going on and on . By the end of the movie , I felt dazed . I called my sister up and asked her it's not that great . She said give it another shot . I did . And then another one . I don't know , maybe I don't like the fact that Mr . Kubrick wanted us to feel sorry for an evil killer . Either that or I'm not an artist . But it was brillently made . I'll give Mr . K that . But I still didn't like it .
Bad chemistry	I don't know why , but I was so curious to see the Wedding Planner , my friend was telling me that it was a cute movie and to give it a chance . I figured , what would I have to loose ? I lost a hour and 40 minutes . The Wedding Planner wasn't necessarily a bad story , but it was bad casting and incredibly clichéd as usual for a romantic comedy . Jennifer Lopez , it was so funny because the " review " for the film on the back of the cover was " Jennifer Lopez is smart and sexy , she has it " , considering that's not a review of the film , I should've known better . Mary is a wedding planner who is having a hard time finding that guy of her dreams , but one day while planning a wedding for her biggest client ever , she is walking and her Gucci shoe gets caught in the sewer vent , instead of being smart when a garbage truck is about to head towards her and kill her , she goes back for the stupid shoe , but I guess it all turned out for the best since Eddie , a supposedly cute doctor , saves her life . But as it turns out he is the fiancée she was planning the wedding for . She has to deal with a guy her dad is trying to set her up with while she is in love with Eddie and he also must confront some tough feelings before the wedding . The Wedding Planner is just a typical romantic comedy that has nothing special . Jennifer and Matt had zero chemistry , I don't know what the casting director was thinking other than big bucks in the box office , because Matt and Jen had no chemistry what so ever . The story is alright , needs a lot of polish , but unfortunately it just has you begging for the stupid story to end since it's so predictable in the first place .
Normally if a guy likes me , I'd hope he would just bring me flowers and ask me out	I saw the trailer for Captivity quite a while back , like last spring of 2007 , and it looked so cool and scary . But unfortunately , it was one of those big fright fest movies that were not being shown in the general theaters , so I figured it was not a bother to look for it . But I saw it pre-viewed at my video store and decided to go ahead and just buy it , after all , like I said , it looked pretty cool and I like Elisha , so why not buy it ? Now I love horror films , I really love horror films , but this one was stupid , I think it's my new favorite guilty pleasure , just because it's one of those films that it's so bad that it turns right around and it's actually just fun to watch and make fun of , you know ? It's all good , we need a cheesy horror film every once in a while . Jennifer is a beautiful and successful model / actress with the whole world at her feet . But when she goes to a local night club / charity event , she is kidnapped and put into a dark and scary cell . She is tortured and is being held against her will . But when she discovers a man next to her cell , they develop a quick friendship that quickly leads to a sick tale of seduction . Jennifer and the man try to escape , but it seems impossible , but she learns of something even more twisted with her cell mate / lover . Now the thing I love about Captivity is how this plot I think was all just to get a girl for some guy's weird fantasy , I don't know , they didn't explain it well , but like I said , I think flowers and a simple " will you go out with me ? " would suffice . But that's just me , I suppose in this twisted world . But Gary , after Jennifer finds out about his true self , he goes from victim to very suspicious idiot . This movie is for those who will let down their standards and have fun , that's what I have to do since now I own it , but it's all in good fun and is at least has the probability of me taking MST3K on it .
A Walk to Remember this Autumn in New York Here on Earth in Sweet November	OK , that title I used can sum up the script if you wanna see those movies , I feel bad saying that , but honestly , it feels as if they have used the same script over and over again just with different characters . In some ways I was looking forward to seeing A Walk To Remember because it had a decent rating and actually looked like a cute movie . Unfortunately , I got fluff , fluffy fluff , in fact this movie is what I would name as the ultimate fluffinator . This was Here on Earth all over again , which I do despise that movie as well , but however , I thought I was in for a treat with some of these movie comments here on IMDb . Seriously , I don't understand what is the appeal of these movies , they only attract the googly eyed teenage girls who think that this kind of love exists , don't mean to sound bitter , just this story was incredibly predictable and unrealistic . Landon Carter is the handsome popular jock at his school , one night after getting a boy injured , he has to do community service . He then meets the good girl conservative Christan , everyone teases her , but she doesn't care what other people think . They are together in theater , they have nothing in common , but Jamie feels as if she sees something in him . She does her best to get him to loosen up , but he just refuses back , until he sees that she's hot one night , then he gets interested and falls in love with her only to find out that , gasp , she's dying . Seriously , this is one of the biggest " huh's " when it comes to IMDb ratings , this movie is just a fairy tale when you think about it . It's a cheesy love story that really doesn't have any likable characters , I know that there isn't anything to dislike about Jamie's character , but there's nothing to like in my opinion . If you wanna see this movie , I am going to warn you that if you've seen Here on Earth , Sweet November or Autumn in New York , you've seen this movie , but it's just the more innocent goodie two shoes version .
A director has two paths , either the good movie path or the bad movie path	Now , he accidentally stepped into the bad movie path . I think he was meaning to make a good movie . And it did have potential . But the main problem was the casting ( Elizabeth Berkley ) and the script . Now Elizabeth Berkley , let's start with her . Most remembered before as Jessie from " Saved by the Bell " . What a dramatic change of characters . Nomi is not a character that can be loved or have some kind of feeling . I mostly just wanted to kick her butt . Because she didn't put any kind of energy into her character as Nomi should have been portrayed . WARNING : SPOILERSThen there were some questions , like : 1 . ) How could no one notice Nomi pushing Crystal down the stairs ? Molly was the only one who noticed ? 2 . ) Was the rape scene with Molly neccessary ? I couldn't really see how it fit with the story . 3 . ) James turned out to be a jerk . And you then question his loyality and when he's being honest or not . I don't know , I'm going to be kind and give it a
Loved by few , hated by many	I got to see back to back hip hop dance movies , Stomp the Yard and now You Got Served . Now I liked Stomp the Yard , but I knew what to expect from You Got Served , it's been panned as one of the worst films of all time . But I had a bad attitude seeing this film , but you know what ? I'm alright with this film . I'm not saying that it's good , but is it awful ? No , I'm kinda in the gray area of this film where I don't love it , I don't hate it , I just think it's an alright film . I think people are just freaking out about it because naturally any film that has Lil ' Kim or K-Fed in the titles , I mean , come on , it's insulting to our intelligence . But the acting wasn't horrendous , I was expecting so much worse , but it was believable enough to watch . The story is typical and predictable , but once again , it's tolerable , this is movie that I'm not sure so many people should just jump to hate . David and Elgin are in a dance group together and they are the champions of their city . But when they are challenged by Wade , another group and they find out that one of their boys , Sonny , just spied on them and gave all their moves to Wade . They loose to them , but one night when El needs David for a job , David is out with El's sister and El gets beat up very badly . El ad David are on a non-speaking term , but when a little friend of their's is killed , they must pull together once again for the big dance contest up against Wade once again . Like I said , this isn't a bad movie , You Got Served is just an alright film , I think it's watchable . I think people just jump so quickly on these movies because of it's theme , I also hate rap , I hate the rap society , I think it's disgusting how many sheep there are out there who try to act so " real " and " down with the hood " , but You Got Served doesn't rub it in your face so much . I would recommend Stomp the Yard over this , but this is a watchable film , it's not too bad .
It's not all that	I have to say that this was one of the most insulting films I have seen . I remember seeing " Not Another Teen Movie " in the theaters when it was released , and not getting a lot of the jokes because I had not seen She's All That , that's pretty much the main movie that is made fun of . So , She's All That has been on TV , but obviously , most movies on TV are so badly edited and you have to deal with commercials , so I finally broke down and rented this silly movie . She's All That is about a girl , Laney , who is supposed to be " the ugliest dorkiest " girl at school , even though she's not really ugly , Zach , the good looking popular jock , has just been dumped by his popular girlfriend and has made a bet with his friend that he can make any girl into a prom queen , so they pick Laney . And something totally unpredictable happens , he ends up learning more about himself and hates that he's using Laney since he's falling for her . But can she forgive him once she finds out the truth ? If you can't figure this out , you need brain surgery . This film is totally corny and very unbelievably predictable and has horrible acting with a lame plot . The only thing I found somewhat amusing was Matthew Lillard's character , he was the only character that made me laugh . Laney , she wasn't that sympathetic nor was Zach , so what the heck ? God help these actors , because they better not post that they did this movie on their resume's .
What the hell was Oliver thinking ? !	First off , this movie is a gigaintic music video . Very poor acting . And I didn't see Mallory as a sick twisted girl who just got treated unfairly in life . And Mickey was just plain stupid and sick . Both Mickey and Mallory were very sadistic and should of gotten killed in this movie . It could still be a good movie , but needs a lot of improvement .
How the heck is this on the top 250 films ? !	OK , I went to Best Buy the day this movie was released . I just wanted to look around for some movie to watch later in the night . As I was checking out , I noticed everyone had a copy of " Finding Nemo " . Some even had 3 copies ! I couldn't believe it . So , I figured that it has to be some movie . But I knew my aunt bought the movie already , so I'll watch it with my cousins at home . Boy ! Do I regret that . Now , it was cute at times . But not as funny or amusing as " The Lion King " . And computer effects ? I'm getting sick of it . But it's for the kids , I'll let it go . But I'm looking over the top 250 films of all time , and this was on it ? ! Over other classic movies ? ! Why ? All I want to know is why ? ! " The Lion King " isn't on there , but it was the most successful Disney movie . And " Sleeping Beauty " , " Peter Pan " , and " Beauty and the Beast " were not on there . What the heck ? !
OK , the thing I don't get is that the doll can't be more than two feet high and weigh more than 1 pound , so what's the big deal ?	For some obscene reason , I do want to see the Child's Play series . I think just for the sake that I saw the first one and something must have been special because I am curious how the series goes . One of my friends also said that I have to see " Bride " and " Seed " for the Chucky series , but I didn't want to see those without understanding maybe a few things I missed in the third or second Child's Play . Some silly deaths occur in this movie , like the teacher's . I mean , did anyone look at that as more of a porn movie than a horror flick ? " You've been very naughty Mrs . Kettlewell ! " , slapping the ruler ? You'll see what I mean . I just thought that it was very funny instead of gruesome and also very unbelievable . But then again , I wasn't looking for Oscar material . I need to get back into my horror movies , I miss them so .
No , No , No , No , and No !	I can't believe you Batman fans ! I can't believe anyone really liked this movie ! It's a total BS film that destroyed the story of Batman . The movie wasn't even that enjoyable , it was brought more into a horror movie than a comic book or even a whimsical / corny TV show . Christain Bale as Batman ? He's better than George Clooney , that's for sure , but he didn't give much depth to his character . It's like " Look ! My voice can get scary ! I'm Batman ! No , really , I am ! " . Katie Holmes ? I'm recently ticked off with her and Tom , so I'm going to back off and just pretend she wasn't in the movie at all . The villain ? Who was it ? There was no main one ! Plot holes ! ! ! ! There were a million . OK , supposedly , this homeless person killed Bruce's parents , NOPE ! WRONG ! It was Joker , and even before Jack became the Joker , he was a smooth gangster . Not a homeless man if you will . Also , this is supposed to be a prequel to the first Batman ? Then why are people using cell phones and updated cars ? The first Batman was set in the 80's . Jeez , people ! I'm not trying to be all harsh on this film , but this was in no way the best Batman !
Princess Diaries 2 has it's moments , but over all is a pretty lame film	I just recently viewed The Princess Diaries and over all liked it pretty much , so I figured I would see the sequel . I rented it yesterday and watched it this morning and it seemed to me like it was the same plot as before only with a couple different elements . The film also felt very rushed in some aspects , some of the plots or characters that took place seemed to come and go . Although I'm still not sure since I haven't read the books , but the movie itself was just predictable and a bit too silly at times , it just seemed like it could insult the audience it was aimed at . Mia has graduated college and is off to Genovia to become queen and her grandmother , Clarrise is about to give up her title . But Genovia law is that before Mia is to become queen she must marry someone . She is falling for a young man , Nicolas , but he is also up for the throne as king , so his uncle is trying to set Mia up where she will loose her crown before she could even have it . Mia has to decide wither to go with her heart and let herself love Nicolas or have her duty for her country and marry for Genovia . The Princess Diaries 2 has some cute and funny moments , I won't lie , I did laugh a little bit , but over all I have to say that it just could have been more , you know ? The actors didn't seem to click as well as they did in the first film . Not to mention how quickly the character Michael went away and Lily just was there for 5 minutes to make like a semi quick cameo and just be out of the story . If you want too , feel free to watch this movie , it's harmless , but it's not a great movie if you're looking for one .
I knew Alfred wasn't perfect !	Every director has at least one bad movie or at least not as exciting as his other films . I was very much looking forward to Topaz , I saw a trailer for it and it looked like high suspense and ground breaking effects . Boy , was I wrong . I hate to admit it , I fast forwarded most of the movie because I nearly fell asleep more than a few times . This was a very dull and slow moving flick that I would really not recommend . Especially to those fragile viewers , because this could tarnish your view on Hitchcock forever . Not his best , probably his worst , I would really recommend to skip Topaz .
OK , that was silly	I wasn't really interested in seeing Step Up , but my friend just kept bugging and bugging me to see this film , especially since she is so in love with Channing Tatum , I tease her constantly about it saying how that's the only reason why she loved the movie . But she somehow convinced me that it was a movie worth seeing , that if I loved movies like Dirty Dancing , Take the Lead , and Save the Last Dance , that I should love Step Up , eh , what the heck ? I guess every movie in some way has it's right to a view . Well , you know those movies I just mentioned up top ? Dirty Dancing , Take the Lead , and Save the Last Dance ? Well , put them in a blender with some gangsta love in it and that's what you have . Not to mention if you've seen those movies , well , frankly , you have seen Step Up . Because Channing is lower class with street smarts who just naturally feels the music while that snobby up class girl must follow step by step , how will they ever fall in love if they are so different ? After all , this is their chance to " step up " to the passion , the mystery , and the lust of the dance ! OK , that was a silly plot explanation , but like I said , as long as you've seen those movies I mentioned , or even if you just saw the plot , you get the movie . I don't understand how it actually has a 5 . 5 rating , I bet it's those Channing lovers ! LOL ! I'm kidding with you guys , but it's all good , I guess I just didn't get what others did with the passion , the mystery that is the dance ! Oh , Antonio Bandares , where are you when we need you ? !
So stupid , but amusing at times	I am by no means a Chris Farley fan , I'm not sure why some people think he is so funny , most of his humor seems so forced and just makes him look like an idiot . But my boyfriend just kept on telling me how funny this movie was and was tormenting me on how I wouldn't give this film a chance , so finally I just decided to go ahead and see what it was about . Now that I've seen it , while I think it is still very stupid and has some of the worst acting that I've ever seen in my life , I think this was one of those films that it was so bad that it was good . I think the only thing that really made me laugh about this film was Robin Shou , I haven't seen him in any other film other than Mortal Kombat , so it was amusing to see him in this film . He was so serious in this film and that his character as a ninja getting into these silly situations was just priceless . Chris Farley was alright , I have to admit that I could actually stand him in the film , I know that sounds bad , but from me , trust me , that's a compliment . Haru is the fat , white ninja , he was raised by the ninja master and has never succeeded at being a ninja like his brother , Gobei . But when Haru meets a girl who names herself , Sally Jones , she needs help from a ninja to find out if her boyfriend is a murderer . It turns out that he is also in a big counter fitting scam and Haru wants to help her out and goes to Beverly Hills to find a way to capture him . With the secret help of his brother and his protégé , Joey , Haru will help his " dove " and learn the life of a ninja in Beverly Hills . Over all Beverly Hills Ninja is a stupid movie , it has bad acting , and a silly story , but for some reason I did laugh a few times . It made the film kind of enjoyable , even for a Chris Farley film . I think my favorite part was the Japanese kitchen scene where we see Robin Shou dressed as a woman and how Chris Farley accidentally kills a guy who is about to kill him . So give this a look if you are interested in seeing a silly comedy , that's pretty much what Beverly Hills Ninja is .
Some sequels are worth a fun watch , even if they are tacky	I know " Wishmaster " was never really that popular with the horror fans , but I think it's a guilty pleasure for some , and you have to got to admit that these were the deadliest wishes ever ! I loved seeing how the Djin twisted the wishes and loved all the gory scenes , they were just great . I have to say that the actor who played Nathanal , his face must've hurt that entire movie . : ) I think if you liked the first Wishmaster , you would get a kick out of this one . Basically , a group of thieves take art from a gallery , including the Djin stone , when a girl , Morgana , is stopped by a security guard , he shoots her and she shoots back killing him , but the bullet that hit her was stopped by the stone , releasing the Djin . The boyfriend of Morgana tells her to run , she does so , and the Djin takes the rap for the gang going to prison granting wishes upon wishes . He has to gather 1 , 000 souls and grant 3 wishes to Morgana before his hell will reign on Earth ! I thought the wishes were extremely cool , I think my favorite one was with the lawyer and how he " did " himself , it was very funny in a sick way , you've got to admit that it was original . I think horror fans will get a slight kick out of the second Wishmaster and I'm looking forward for the next sequel .
Better than expected , but that's not saying much	To be honest , I did not want to see this movie in the theater . To me , it looked like another treasure adventure film that I've seen one too many times . And it was . . . sob This had the Indiana Jones Mummy Goonie type of feel that you could only get from those movies alone . Of course , there is always a villain that is greedy than the pure hero . Of course there is a well , in this case not so goofy side kick . And there is always the sassy hot girl that because likable at the end . Sounds familular ? It should ! Indiana Jones , The Mummy , and The Goonies ! They've been ripped off . This is an OK film , and a little better than what I was expecting when my parents rented it , but a good film to watch ? Nope .
The gang is going to Hawaii and save the day once again !	Saved by the Bell : Hawaiian Style was a TV film that was mainly shot due to the show's popularity . Who can blame the writers ? I mean you know that all the fans would go crazy over watching this film , we have the whole gang here on the vacation in Hawaii . Now , there are a few things that irritate me quite a bit about this film , Zack once again just falls in love so easily with a girl , so it makes for a lame love story . The acting as usual is pretty bad , the jokes from the series are being over used , and the whole cast just didn't look comfortable together like they did on the show . The story itself is just awkward and too scooby doo . Zack , Slater , Screech , Kelly , Jesse , and Lisa come to Hawaii for vacation and stay with Kelly's grandfather at his Hawaiian hotel , The Hidaway . But they quickly learn that Mr . Worthington is trying to buy out Kelly's grandfather to expand his hotel chain . It's not too difficult since her grandfather's hotel isn't getting any business . But Mr . Belding is also on vacation , big coincidence , huh ? He's in Hawaii with a bunch of principals and brings his guests over to the Hidaway when the gang tricks them into going . In the mean time , Screech is also the God of a tribe who is supposed to save their land , and they just might when the gang finds out some evil secrets about Kelly's grandfather's lawyer . Saved by the Bell : Hawaiian Style is a cute film , but it wasn't in any way as good as the series . Like I said , the little stories within the film were just typical and nothing special . The love stories between Zack and Jennifer and Kelly and Brian were just too ridicules and actually made me laugh more than say " aww " . For fans of the series , I know they'll wanna check out , please feel free , but I was never a big fan of this film . I just could have survived without another Scooby Doo adventure of the gang , but I guess just a regular normal vacation would've been a boring film .
This has to be the dorkiest and most unrealistic romantic comedy I've ever seen	I was looking forward to seeing Failure to Launch , it did look pretty funny and original , but it turned into the same predictable romantic comedy that America sees time and time again . Not to mention how incredibly unrealistic the ending was with the friends and family watching Matthew and Sarah trying to work things out , that was pretty lame you have to admit . There are a few cute factors about the film that make you smile , like the first girlfriend finding out about Matthew living with his parents was pretty funny . But it seemed like the character , Kit , was supposed to be some kind of comic relief in the film , but she just tried too hard and turned out to be more of a sad character , the whole mockingbird plot with her was just too silly . Over all , this is not a horrible movie , but it's not something I would watch again , nore would I recommend really , because of the simple fact that if you have seen a romantic comedy , just imagine it with this plot , you'll have it figured out . Especially after you see this ending , you'll be upset that you wasted your time on such an unrealistic plot .
A little too slasher for me	Psycho 3 is one of those " it's not as bad as you think " type of movies , again , from what I was expecting , I thought it was going to be trash . But I bought the triple feature DVD pack of the Psycho sequels , I watched Psycho 3 last night , it wasn't that bad . The only complaint I have is that it felt a little too Friday the 13th to me , a little too slasher . From the first Psycho , we had more left to the imagination and a little more thriller / mystery , Psycho 3 doesn't use that same formula , but it still leaves you in chills . It is almost kind of a tribute in some of the shots and lines from the original , I think that is thanks to Anothony Perkins , it was interesting to see him direct the film , not the worst I've seen for a horror sequel , but the story itself is alright . Norman is back in business , running the Bates Motel , he needs a helping hand , so Duane Duke , musician bum , is his new assistant manager . When a former nun , Maureen , comes to stay in the motel , she reminds Norman of Marian Craine , he falls for her . But it's a question if his mother will let him be with Maureen . Duane is also bringing problems back into Norman's killing spree of bar fly's and a homecoming party . Psycho 3 is worth the look , believe me , when you've seen so many horror sequels that were just beyond horrible , this was a breathe of fresh air . The story does keep your interest , if you are into blood and gore , you will not be disappointed on that note . But I'm looking at this as to what should be a tribute to the first film , the slitting of the throat to me wasn't Norman Bates . But if you want to see the sequel , I wouldn't hold you back , the sequel is worth the watch if you are curious about the sequels , just this was a little too bloody for my tastes .
It's alright	I have to admit that Over Her Dead Body actually wasn't as bad as I was expecting , my mom wanted to see it , so I rented it . I figured just to go ahead and see the horror before my eyes , but actually this wasn't too bad . I was just expecting this horrific movie , but it seems like the writers meant no harm , but the casting of Eva Longoria ( Parker , sorry ) , she seems a little off set for the movie . I think I may have found it to be a little better without her , just she does annoy me . But Paul Rudd and Lake Bell had a decent chemistry that made the film somewhat likable . But you have to admit , there was no point to this movie , it was one of those quick paychecks for the actor type of thing . The movie could've been funnier if someone had really paid attention to it and had a better cast . Henry just lost his bride to be , Kate , who was killed by an ice sculpture on their wedding day . But when his sister takes him to a psychic , Ashley , Henry falls for her , but Kate is haunting her from beyond the grave . Kate is jealous and doesn't want Henry to move on so quickly and she will make sure that Ashley doesn't get him by torturing her day and night with her rambles , believe me , with Kate's voice , that's scary . Over Her Dead Body is an alright movie , not sure if it's worth the money , but I'd give it a rental for you if you want to see it or are curious . Eva Longoria just doesn't have enough star power to make the film work , no offense to those who love her , she just belongs on the small screen over the silver screen . Not to mention the character of Ashley , she seems still not too likable with everything she pulls , or her " gay " friend , Dan , just again , not really likable . Just with some re-writing and proper attention , this film could have been better , but instead we get the average predictable romantic comedy that will leave with with an empty feeling .
There's a good movie somewhere in here	OK , I am a big fan of horror movies as you can see if you look at my comments . So , when I heard that there would be a sequel to Carrie , I was a little confused . But I dealt . So , this was playing on HBO . I decided to give it a chance . Now the movie starts pretty strong . With a good plot coming in to play . But it turns too much into a teen movie . And then it becomes a little too predictable . I didn't mind it so much . But I was disappointed . I didn't get the whole relation to Carrie . They mentioned something about that . I'm not sure what it is though . It was pretty stupid . I must have blocked it out .
Well , they're baaack agaaaain	Poltergeist 3 was one of those mistake sequels that was an unnecessary movie to make in the first place . The second one ended the story just right and made us feel comfortable with it . The third Poltergeist might have worked , but the only characters that came back was Carol Anne and Tabith , I think her name was , you know that lady with the annoying voice ? Well , it just didn't work as well without the other cast , not to mention they felt like a shove off with this plot . Carol Anne is sent off to live with her aunt and uncle in Chicago temporally , she is going to a special school to help her out with all her trauma from home . But the ghost have followed her again to wreak havoc on her and her new family . Only this time , there are more " jumpy " scenes to freak the audience out . It isn't a terrible sequel , it just wasn't necessary and it was sad to look at that little girl's face knowing she died during the filming of this movie . Such a short life , but at least she'll always be remembered and a great treasure for horror fans . But I would only recommend this sequel for those who wish to complete the sequel . Like I said , it isn't bad , it just wasn't fair to the original movies and it was sad to see Carol Anne in her last days , but I guess you'll just have to judge for yourself .
Assignment : Miami Beach	OK , I'm starting to see the slump in the police academy sequels , it is number 5 , Assignment : Miami Beach , where we've lost Steve Guttenberg and the jokes are not as funny as they used to be . Now , don't get me wrong , this movie did make me laugh , but so far this was definitely the more weaker of the sequels . Again , the only thing that makes it worth it though is the original cast members , like Bubba Smith , Michael Winslow , and G . W . Bailey , but it seems like they're almost getting sick of the sequels too . But the story is really weak , that's the downfall , it's just not doing it for me , even though none of the Police Academy movies are realistic , this movie goes above being unrealistic , it has Bubba Smith fighting a crocodile for Pete's sake . Not to mention , not only do they not have Steve Guttenberg back , but there is no Zed or Sweetchuck , I loved those characters . The Class of ' 84 are going to see their favorite Commandant Lasard get an award for all his hard service in Miami , they are all invited together . But Captain Harris is displeased with his placement and wants to be commandant , so he figures since they are pushing Lasard into retirement , he can be a hero down there , and will do anything to get that promotion he feels he deserves . Off the flight , Lasard gets the wrong bag where he thinks his fish is , but instead has a camera with hidden jewels , not knowing he is being followed by thugs to get the diamonds back . Police Academy 5 : Assignment : Miami Beach isn't a bad movie by any means , like I said there are still some good laughs in it . I loved how Lasard gets kidnapped , but he thinks it's all part of the program and just goes with it saying to the thugs " thank you , you have been a wonderful kidnapper " , it was so stupid , but I loved watching him play along . Also Harris is always a blast to watch , he's such a great jerk , you love to hate him , but you still end up wanting him back for more . So if you're going to watch this movie , I'd recommend watching it if you're just looking to finish the sequels , it's the weakest I've seen so far , but still worth a look .
Funny stuff , but this was unrealistic silliness	You know what ? Standing alone as a comedy , it had some really good moments , but as an action movie , this was beyond unbelievable and incredibly clichéd . I'm going to start with the good parts , see , Eddie Murphy is still great as Axel and is always very funny . He has some really great moments , but for me in this sequel , it was Judge Reinhold that stole the show as Billy . He was just such a lovable goof , which was semi-sad since he was a cop in the film , but I got past that part pretty much since he has been a goof from the first Beverly Hills Cop movie . Axel is back in business , in Detroit he gets into a once in a lifetime for a cop normally , type of shoot out with dirty business men , one who is an extremely super duper bad dude , who just won't stop killing people or stealing , why do you ask ? Because he's a super duper bad dude ! Well , he leads Axel to Wonderworld in Beverly Hills , California , where he finds out that that's where they do business . He gets his favorite buddy Billy back in the game and together they try to find a way to reveal the super duper bad dude's true identity to the crowd . Now the complaints , there are a huge list of them : first off , for security guards , most of them had pretty crappy shooting techniques and couldn't hit a barn . Secondly , Axel saved these children from a ride in Wonderworld , with one arm ? ! Third , a shootout like they had in this film in reality is a one in a million chance for a real life , but somehow Axel just seems to keep getting them like their a dime in a dozen . And fourth , the super duper bad dude , did the badness a little too much , to the point where it was just obnoxious . But who am I to judge , you try it .
Honestly ? It's just OK	While 2005 was one of the worst years for cinema , " Into the Blue " is a prime reason for that accusation . Well , " Into the Blue " wasn't really that bad , it wasn't that good either . I felt that it should have been titled " Really hot , greedy , and horny people in bathing suits " . The actors , we got two really hot actors who's careers are on fire right now , Jessica Alba and Paul Walker . Together , they did a decent job of acting , but their characters were a bit unbelievable . The other characters / actors , I just didn't care about . I felt that the story had just cheated me out of so much and I didn't understand why some of the stories were made the way they were . This could have been a great adventure film , especially for the summer time . But it just turned out as an average teen movie that I feel adults just can't really get into . If you are an adult and you enjoyed the movie , I'm sorry , no offense to those who enjoyed the movie . I guess everyone must really love Jessica Alba in a bikini , huh ?
It did not take my breath away	OK , I will never ever split movies into like a " Chick Flick " or " Guy's flick " category . I hate it when people do that . But for the first time ever , it seemed like such a macho guy flick . I love romantic movies , so I asked my mom and friend what was the most romantic movie they ever saw and they said " Top Gun " . I knew we had it , so I watched it . The only thing I loved about it was the sexy Tom Cruise and Val Kilmer . Other than that , I'd skip it .
Computer effects , eye candy , annoying actors : no more	I saw the " famous " Matrix 3 years ago , after all the hype , I waited for the video . I wasn't like " Oh , I know this is going to suck . " I had an open mind . I do like this movie for one reason , it made me realize : MY GENERATION RELYS ON COMPUTER EFFECTS ? ! ? ! ? ! ! ? ! ? ! ? ! ! ? ? ! There is practically no plot , crumie acting ( except for Morphious ) , all effects , and just an excuse for computer nerds to get together for this crap . I mean , Spiderman I could deal somewhat , but man . This was nothing . All the actors got in front of a green screne and the director is like " Ok , pretend that something scary is coming at you ! " Wow , what motivation . I got really bored , tried watching it ( going on 5 ) again , nothing . I can't get it , and I wish Keanu the best of luck . Because I hope the sequal will have more luck .
Cute , but not needed	The Fox and the Hound is a quiet classic of Disney's , I highly recommend it , it was an extremely sweet story and a personal favorite of mine . So I was curious what was with the sequel , if they just prolonged the story or was it new characters ? I wasn't too sure if this was a prequel or a re-make of the first film . Because of the way the story was in the first film , this didn't make much sense . I wasn't sure if it was just an added story , if it was , it was a bit silly . While the story and characters were cute , don't get me wrong , it's perfect for the kids , it just didn't do anything for me since I'm such a fan of the first film . I just feel like they shouldn't have ruined the story , the ending to the first film was perfect , we didn't need an additional story . But it wasn't bad for the kids , it's just a typical Disney sequel . Todd and Chopper are back as young kids , they are having their typical play dates , but Chopper is feeling a bit down since he doesn't feel that he doesn't have any special talents . After a failed attempt at trying to hunt , Chopper's master leaves him home when he takes Chief to the fair for the howling and hunting contest . Todd takes Chopper to the fair anyways to cheer him up , and they end up meeting a stray dog singing group with wants Chopper to join due to his surprising pleasant voice . Todd gets left out , but the singer that got kicked out of the band because of Chopper , Dixie , she has a few tricks up her sleeve and wants back . Todd in the mean time just wants his best friend back . The Fox and the Hound 2 is a better Disney sequel than most , I admit . But like I said it just wasn't needed , I was kinda disappointed in seeing the computer animation , you could tell when it wasn't hand drawn . The additional characters were cute , but they didn't do anything for me personally . I would recommend that you stick with the first Fox and the Hound movie , just because it's very original and a classic . For the kids , this sequel would be up their alley , but for the fans of the original , I wouldn't really go crazy over this .
Babylonga A . D . I'd like to call it	I had the opportunity to see Babylon A . D . today and just decided to go ahead and give it a chance , from the trailer it didn't look so bad . I know a lot of people have a thing against Vin Diesel , but I don't think the guy is so bad , he makes a great action hero and also makes a lot of movies very entertaining . Just look at the Fast and the Furios as well as XXX , you have to admit those movies would be nothing without him . But we have Babylon A . D . now , a lot of my co-workers at my theater warned me that it was pretty bad , but like I said , some people just judge too harshly , I just wanted to see it for myself . Sadly , they were right , the first hour actually had me , I was like " Are they crazy ? This movie is pretty decent . . . " then the ending happened , well , what ending ? This film felt so rushed , I was expecting a narrator to speak over and say " Sorry folks , we forget to tell you about the sub plot " . Toorop is a mercenary who has just been given an assignment , it seems pretty simple , he just has to deliver a girl from Russia to New York City , unfortunately , it's not that easy . In a world where you have to be a strong person to survive , this girl is something special , with her protector , Rebeka , Toorop leads them to New York discovering that the girl , Aurora , is pregnant with twins that are going to save the world , but they can't discover who to trust since everyone is pulling them in different directions on who will kill her or who wants her alive . Babylon A . D . is just poorly put together . While I think it was an interesting story , it just could have been so much better and should have been told more properly . Sadly , the only character that we really get to know is just Toorup , who is played by Vin Diesel , he is the only one with depth , while they could have had a little focus on the girl , Aurora , how did she get her powers or was she really ill ? What was the history and was she destined for all of what happened to her with her children ? There were so many questions that were left unanswered . Over all , this isn't a terrible movie , but I would say definitely to wait for the rental , because while the effects are very good and the whole setting is disturbing , it's the story that leaves you dumbfounded and just bummed that the story ended the way it did .
A teenage punk kid's wet dream	The Fast and the Furious , I remember in 2001 this was the must see movie . I was in high school at the time and I remember the weekend that it opened strangely enough , and I remember the Monday at school , all the guys were just screaming how cool this film was , how " badass " it was , it was so ridicules . So , I decided to steer clear of the fast and the furious films , it just seemed like a waste of time . But recently one of my friends told me that I should give these movies a chance . So I decided to go ahead and see what they were about , plus I had a coupon for a free rental and there was nothing else better to watch it seemed . So I watched the first two fast and the furious films this afternoon , and for the first film , I have to say that it lived up to everything I would've expected . Brian is a cop in LA and is going undercover into the deep dark pimp my ride world of street racing . He meets the head of the LA races , Dominic , who has a gang of people who are loyal drivers and race for money , also a sister who Brian falls for , what a shock , huh ? But there's bad news , there is a rival race gang in the area , The Fast And The Furious became quickly from an action movie to a mystery thriller of who's gang is trying to get the major pimp your ride engines for money . So Brian of course starts to like the gang and wants to become one of them , what another shock . When it comes down to it The Fast and the Furious is the most predictable and horribly written piece of a film you could think of . I don't understand how others , besides a teenage guy , could get into these films . I shouldn't have rented the sequels , just because now I have to watch them to get my money's worth : P But I think it is just silly all the major over the top special effects , it has a pointless plot as well as it's sexist . I'm not saying that to be a pain in the butt , but all the women in this film were used as mostly sex objects , they had no development . But I guess that's what to expect from a film like The Fast and the Furious . Oh , well , at least I could say I saw these films .
OK , it's bad , but not too awful	Even though this is a pretty badly made movie , it's something that I just enjoyed when I was a kid . I think because I was in my princess and " damsel in distress " phase . Watching this movie now , it is pretty ridicules . I mean , the whole history back flash in the beginning , now I know this is a movie and it is supposed to be fairy tale like , but the peasant girl having a beautiful dress and cape with perfect hair and make up ? Just didn't make sense . The knights were complete wusses when in real life they were trained to take a sword through a gut and continue in battle . And the acting , yes it's pretty bad . But again , this was just something that I enjoyed as a kid . For the kids , just let them have fun with it . But as a movie for adults in a serious train of mind , just ignore it .
I knew it , I knew this movie would have some kind of undeserved 6 . 5 rating	It's really scary , because I was watching Feast and wasn't really enjoying it , but then I thought when I was going to comment on it that it'd probably have a 6 . 5 rating for those " cult lovers " . Somewhere down the road I thought maybe I could see this movie getting more appreciated , but right now I wasn't too into it . I saw this movie getting advertised on the Sci-fi channel and a critic was just raving about it and how scary it was . So , even though I never heard of it , I decided to rent it . It's about these strangers in a bar who are just frankly , are a bunch of jerks , and when two people come into the bar bloodied up and say that there are aliens attacking them , the creatures decide to attack the whole bar . They have to band together and figure out a way to defeat the aliens and get out of the bar alive , but it'll be hard since the aliens keep reproducing babies . Sometimes comedy and sometimes horror , two genres that need to be carefully put together , but it failed in my opinion . The only part that made me laugh hysterically was when the " actress " got in the truck and sped off , it was pretty funny . This movie kinda reminded me of " Dead Alive " which I also didn't enjoy , so I think that's why I didn't get into it . But to those others who did enjoy it , it's cool , I see this movie becoming a cult classic in the near future , but it didn't amuse me .
Explained too late	I couldn't get past all the confusion at the beginning . I was just wondering what the heck was going on ? And where was this movie going ? It wasn't too bad . After all , I did like " Vanilla Sky " . But you spend most of the movie just frustrated . SPOILER ! ! ! ! Josh Hartnett is Matthew . A guy from Chicago with a future and a life ahead of him . He has a wonderful fiancée . She does absolutely nothing wrong . He lies to her about his business trip to China . He instead stays in Chicago to see an old flame . And as it turns out his old flame's best friend is keeping them apart . The best friend is Alex . She is also in love with Matthew . But Matthew's best friend is in love with her . It gets more confusing . I did get it . But I'm not going to see it again .
It's funny because they make funny references to the future	In case you didn't know , I was being sarcastic ! Man , this was a pretty bad sequel to " Shanghai Noon " . I mean , it wasn't the acting or plot , I think it was the script . Also the character development ? What character development ? Owen Wilson just seemed so out of place in this film . You might as well have called it " Shanghai Jackie " . I admit , Jackie has become a big star and deserves it , but now I think his ego is getting out of control . You can tell in the movie how much he is showing off his moves . We get it , Jackie can do karate well . It was cool in the past , but now , he's just getting old with it . I'm sure many are agreeing with me too . 6 . 3 ? Please ? I really didn't get into it .
What started off as an alright film , it ended pretty badly	First off , the first thing that came to my mind after I finished this film last night was " Why the title of 8MM 2 ? " , because I saw the first one obviously , and what did this have to do with the first movie's plot ? The only thing that was similar was the fact that the couple had to go into the porno industry and that wasn't even needed in the plot , because after you see the ending that I will not spoil , it just didn't make any sense . A diplomat and his fiancée are in Hungary and notice a woman who is swimming naked in the pool area , she's very attractive , so when they see her at a club , they decide to have a little fun and have a steamy threesome . But things get extremely intense when the diplomat is mailed pictures of them all having the affair , fearing that it might go public and jeopardize his career , they pay off the guy who sent the pictures , the diplomat freaks out and " kills " the guy , leading into a murder case . He and his fiacee decide to find the girl they had the affair with , but things just get deeper and darker as they go further into what they got themselves into . What could have been an alright thriller , turned into an unexplained and not well thought out movie , which was sad . Like I said , the title really has nothing to do with the first one , so don't fall for it . It's just a sexual thriller that makes no sense , but it's good for those nights alone , because quite frankly this is one of those films where it's so close to porn that it might as well be labeled as soft core .
Stephen King's version of Brokeback Mountain	Now I was kinda interested in seeing Dreamcatcher when my friend told me that this was a pretty scary film . I watched it last night and I have to say that I was expecting these guys to get it on or something because they tried way too hard to prove their friendships on screen . I haven't read the book by Stephen King , I'm sure it's probably a thousand times better , but I'm not sure if I'll read it just because I think this is too familiar not only to other Stephen King movie adaptations , but novels as well . Dreamcatcher is just a movie that fell apart and had too much CGI along with the director who didn't seem to enjoy making this film . Pete , Jonesey , Henry , and Beaver have been friends almost forever , together they discover they have pretty special powers , that isn't well explained in the film , but there's special things they can do , they also help a young boy called Dudits , who gets brutally picked on . Their friendship continues for years to come , they go camping and end up with a very deadly attack from an alien life form that is killing everything on site . But when the guys are attacked , two are killed , Jonesey is possessed by one and Henry must help stop the attack from going on . Dreamcatcher had big potential , like a new version of The Thing for this generation , but it was too much CGI and more of a gross out horror movie that should have been more of a psychological one in my opinion . When I read that the director did this movie mainly because his mom told him too , I wasn't really surprised , because this is in no way the best Stephen King adaptation , wouldn't recommend it . The acting is bad and so is the script , I'm surprised at the kind rating it has on IMDb .
Yeah , it's silly , but take it for what it's worth	I had to rent a couple of movies for my little cousin for New Year's and she picked out The Swan Princess : The Mystery of the Enchanted Kingdom and The Little Mermaid 2 and we just watched both films , while she's sleeping , I figured I could get a couple comments in . : ) While this is a very cheesy cartoon , it really wasn't that bad . You have to admit that for children , these plots are new to them and it could be a great introduction of these stories to them . Odette finds out that Derek has been secretly keeping the magic secrets of Rosthoe and she tells Derek to destroy them immediately , but him being a guy , typically he does not do so and tells her that no on could achieve the magics without his help . When a witch named Zelda gets her hands on them , she finds out that Derek tore off the last words of a spell she wants to use to destroy everything , and she kidnaps Odette in order to retrieve this information . The Swan Princess : The Mystery of the Enchanted Kingdom is silly and predictable , but for the kids I would honestly say it's a go . It's so rare we have these clean cut cartoons now a days , so I'm going to cut the film some slack . It was just weird seeing all the voices change all of a sudden , I grew up with the first one , so I guess it was just stuck in my head .
To be honest , I wasn't that impressed	I had heard quite a bit for Mission Impossible , especially now that the third one is about to come out in the theaters . I knew my parents owned the first Mission Impossible , but due to the crazy antics Tom Cruise has pulled on . . . well . . . basically everyone , he has pretty much turned me off of his movies . But , I figured to give the Mission Impossible movies a shot . While over all this is an exciting action / spy flicks , there were only a few scenes in the movie I felt were worth the watch . Obviously the exciting scene of Tom coming through the ceiling on wires and copying the information onto disk . The last action sequence of the helicopter and train with Ethan and our surprise villain , very well thought out , unrealistic , but exciting to watch . Over all , for movie's sake , give Mission Impossible a chance , but it's nothing I would scream or jump on couches about . : )
So , this is the famous Phantasm ?	This is the scary movie Phantasm ? Was I even supposed to be scared ? Because I wasn't . This movie wasn't unique . I didn't even get the plot . All I know is that there is a tall man out there who has yellow blood ? I'm sorry . It's pathetic .
Sloppy , but fun	I was looking forward to seeing Meet the Spartans , from the first few theatrical trailers , it looked like a lot of fun and not like a horrible parody . But I have to admit that when it had it's TV spots , it was starting to look bad , but my boyfriend and I still saw it last night , just to see maybe if it still had some laughs . Now , while I'm still disappointed in most of the movie , there were a few good laughs I think . It was made pretty badly , but I think most spoof movies are made that way since they don't have a sense of reality , so I'll be kind on that subject . Plus , the movie in general was weird , they took on the movie 300 , fully , like re-shot the entire film , and just added their own jokes on TV , movies , pop culture , and random things . Leonidas has just been made king of Sparta , and his world is rocking with his bombshell wife , Queen Margo , and life couldn't be better . But when he is challenged by the Persians , he must protect Sparta with , well , only 8 guys . But hoping that " they will survive " , they go into a battle of stomping the yard , talking smack , and even having to deal with some transformers . Leonidas is getting more and more steamed though as he realizes that the blue screen Persians may be too much for he and his team can handle . Meet the Spartans had some really funny moments , like I loved and nearly died laughing when the Spartans were leaving their country and they left hand in hand singing " I will Survive " , it was so stupid , I know , but if you let go and have fun , I'm sure you'll laugh too . But there were things I was disappointed in , like the constant potty humor , it would be nice if the writers grew past the second grade level humor . There was some jokes that were predictable and used too many times in other spoofs . But over all this was definitely better than Epic Movie or Date Movie . If you go to see this , there are a few laughs , but don't expect the best comedy of the year .
Lame	I sort of enjoyed the first Pocahontas film that was released in 1995 , I never got to see the second one , so I figured why not give most Disney sequels a chance ? I mean The Lion King trilogy was actually pretty good along with Aladdin and Toy Story . But this was a very cheesy and incredibly disgraceful to history and Disney in general . I don't judge normally on movies with history , but I worry that because this is a viewing for children that they will get things mixed up . I know it's a stupid reason , but I just take history very seriously . It's a movie for the kids , nothing more , no good jokes for the adults to laugh at . Not to mention the editing was pretty cheap .
Superman vs . Richard Pryor . . . who will win the power of the silver screen ?	I just watched Superman III and was excited to see Richard Pryor on the cover , but then I even thought as I was paying for the rental " wait , why am I excited to see Richard Pryor more than Christopher Reeve ? " , it was an interesting thought . But I was thinking maybe it's just because I was just more used to being excited about some kind of comedy , but the problem was that it seemed like the comedy took over what could've been a great super hero story . Superman / Clark Kent is now invited to his high school reunion where he sees his old high school crush and they hit it off . Gus , played by Pryor , is a computer worker , he is asked by a big boss to play with the computers and control the weather and more ! But when Superman interferes with that , they decide to throw some kryptonite at him , but it fails , but turns Superman into a bad guy ! Hence the alternate title of " Superman vs . Superman " . Like I said , it just didn't seem to balance right with these two huge movie stars . In the 70's and 80's , Richard Pryor could do no wrong , he was so popular , and I think that overshadowed Christopher's presence on the screen . The comedy and drama didn't mesch well , I just think that this could've been a great sequel , but just didn't excel to what it could'v been .
Ladies and Gentlemen , the world's lamest villain : CHUCKY	Now , I know most people are afraid of this movie , but I wasn't . I mean , come on ! You could just pick the friggin ' doll up and drop kick him . I am afraid of dolls very much . But this thing was just like a foot tall . Yes , the plot is very original . And I did enjoy some of the scenes . But most of this was just lame . I give the movie a little credit , because yes . Chucky is a creepy villian . But to me , he's not that memorable . He just didn't do too much for me . Not like Michael Myers or Freddy Krueger . If you are a true horror movie fan , you will watch this . Just to know what all the hype is , but if you are just looking for a quick scare . Skip the movie . Trust me , it's not worth it .
Honestly ? It has it's moments here and there , but it's one of those films that are so stupid that it's funny	I had absolutely no interest what so ever in seeing Employee of the Month , let's face it , Jessica Simpson does not equal movie of the year . But my friends and I were stuck inside yesterday and my friend's brother rented Employee of the Month and said that it was pretty funny , so we decided to watch it . While I admit there were a few funny moments , it's the same pointless humor that you see in an average comedy . Jessica , well , even though she wasn't horrible , she wasn't that much of an addition to the cast , her part was just smiles and giggles , so it wasn't that much of a part . Basically , Guy is an employee at a " Sam's Club " sort of speak , only he doesn't take his work very seriously , Vince is the only employee who goes above and beyond his work making employee of the month for 17 months in a row and is about to win a car if he wins employee of the month once again . But all that changes when a new girl , Amy , starts working with them and now Guy and Vince are competing for employee of the month since they heard about Amy only liking the best workers . But Guy is about to . . . you guessed it . . . loose touch with who he really is and same with loosing his friends . While it's a pretty stupid movie , I have to admit that I had a few laughs here and there , it's silly humor , but it's all good . But I'm very serious and not just saying this , Jessica really needs to stay away from film because she doesn't add much to the screen besides incredibly low cut tops for the teenage boys . But this is one of those movies you have to decide for yourself , because if I actually had a few laughs , I'm not sure if my brain is functioning correctly .
Oh , Disney released straight to video , you know that can't usually be good	Now , I rented Hunchback of Notre Dame 2 in good hopes because I loved the first one . I was a little curious to see how the second one would end the story . While this could definitely be entertaining to children , for adults the story is way too predictable and the songs just aren't as magical as the first . Now , I'm not completely bashing the movie because it's not terrible . I did like how Quasy found a person who loved him for him and it was a very happy ending . Just again , I don't want to spoil anything , but the plot is just pretty much what you've seen before and if you watch this you'll see again . For the kids I highly recommend because it teaches good values . Otherwise for adults , it's not really for us .
I Am Disappointed	I Am Legend was the best looking film release for early December ; I was looking forward to it , like many others I am sure . So I saw I Am Legend tonite with my boyfriend , now after the movie we just looked at each other and had that disappointed look and then the audience just looked around and just walked out grunting and I heard nothing but " that was a waste of money " . That's definitely not a good thing . I think the problem was definitely the script , the story was not explained well as well as the character development needed improvement . The way that I Am Legend was shot very well , it had a very isolated and cold feeling . Will Smith does a fine job of acting ; his best though ? Not so much . The story also took a strange turn from Sci-Fi to religion towards the end . Not to mention , was this a zombie film ? I don't know , because it was never explained . Robert Neville is a scientist who is the last man alive in New York City . A cure of cancer has gone horribly wrong and killed off almost 90 % of the human population . The cure has turned people rabid and has made them feed on humans . Robert has lost his family in trying to get them out of New York during the evacuation , but he is dedicated to finding a cure for this virus . Along with his only companion , his dog , Samantha , he has to survive this scary and isolated world and try to find the last survivors before he goes insane or gets attacked by these creatures . I Am Legend had good ideas , like I said , the script just needed major work . Like with Robert's flash backs , it seemed like they just stopped the story at that point and didn't explain how the rest of the population died out and how he was really the ONE and ONLY person who survived New York's virus . I know he said he was immune , but no one else was ? Major spoiler : they killed his dog off almost in the beginning of the film which didn't seem right to me . I Am Legend is one of the year's biggest disappointments with me , I guess not everything Will Smith touches is gold . If you want to see I Am Legend , please just expect a lot of confusion and not much of a story , I am very disappointed .
Step back nine yards	After the fun time I had watching The Whole Nine Yards , I was looking forward to seeing The Whole Ten Yards . But I watched it last night and I was pretty much disappointed with where they took the story . It just seemed like they took the characters and turned them into something completely different . For me , I'm such a Bruce Willis fan , so when I saw him growing and acting like a bull while he was drunk in one scene , I didn't laugh , I actually wanted to cry for him , it was pretty pathetic what they did to this cool , smooth , charismatic hit man that we knew and loved in the first film . The script and story was just up to par like the first film was , in fact , I would've appreciated it if they just left The Whole Nine Yards alone if they really felt like this one had a chance for a great comedy . Jimmy has changed from this tough guy hit man to a Martha Stuart and Jill is not happy with it . Oz and Cynthia are in a quiet life in hiding from the gangsters . Lazlo is out of prison and wants revenge , so he " kidnaps " Cynthia and now Jimmy , Jill , and Oz get together to save her only to find out there are more twists and turns than they expected . But Jimmy has to go deep back into his roots of being the tough guy , not Mr . Clean . Now don't get me wrong , The Whole Ten Yards has a few laughs here and there , but for the most part I just actually felt bad for Bruce Willis with the silly attempt to be a soft like Martha Stuart type of guy , he's just such a great tough guy , it's hard to see him as anything else . Matthew Perry wasn't as fun as he was in the first movie and neither was Amanda , it just seems like everyone lost their magic and chemistry with each other in this film . I really wish that I loved this film , but I'm having a hard time , I'm sorry .
I thought it was kind of stupid . . . sorry ?	Eagle Eye's trailer was one of the coolest trailers that I had seen in a little while , so I was looking forward to seeing it . I work at a movie theater and a lot of people were walking out very happy , so I had high hopes , so I saw it a couple of weeks ago , I don't know , it's very strange because it seems like after I saw it and didn't like it , the audience didn't like it either . The rating however here on IMDb continued to rise , so I wanted to think this movie over , but seriously , I'm still not crazy over Eagle Eye . My problem with it is that it's dumb , it's just a silly story line , there's a good unrealistic and there's a bad unrealistic , this is a bad unrealistic . Not to mention that I thought it was unoriginal with the " technology will destroy us all " story line , if you are going to use this story line once again , I suggest making it worth my time . Jerry Shaw is a young man who is kind of a bum , he really needs to get his life together , just needs a little determination . Well he might get that when he receives a phone call from a mysterious lady who is telling him to get out of his weapon stuffed apartment and that the FBI are about to bust in , he fails and is arrested . Later we meet a young woman who is also a mother , Rachel , and the same lady calls her threatening her son if she doesn't follow the rules . Jerry escapes and finds Rachel , together they are ordered around town to get a bomb for this voice that can alter any cell phone , computer , even signs on the sides of the building , or there will be horrible consequences . Agent Morgan is chasing after these two having to realize maybe there's more to this than just Jerry and Rachel running from the law . Eagle Eye does truly deliver on the action , as much as I hate to say it , this car chase scene in the movie is very exciting and should be watched on the big screen . There are some other very tense and fun moments , but great action doesn't make a great movie . I also felt like Michelle Monaghan is miscast , somehow this woman who looks like she could be no older than 25 years old is playing a mom , it was just odd to take her as this character . Then they place a strange love story between her and Shia and it just throws the movie off completely . I would say if you're going to spend money on it , do a matinée , otherwise , I'd say skip it , to me at least this was just an over blown movie that could have been toned down just a smidge .
Meh , it's over rated	I saw Jerry Maguire quit a few years ago . When it first came out . My parents had rented it . I was like 11 years old . So , I didn't really understand it . And I didn't want to review it based on my 11 year old view . Sometimes they change . Well , I just watched it on TV , and I can see why I still didn't enjoy it . Tom Cruise was just a little too flat in this film . The only thing I did enjoy was Renee and the little kid with the big glasses . He was pretty cute . And the line " Show me the money ! " . Ahh ! How many times must I hear that horrible line ? It gets annoying eventually . It's not a horrible film . The story is somewhat interesting . But the performances aren't that grand . And the film is nothing you'd want to see over and over again . You'll just have to see for yourself .
Throw in " House on Haunted Hill " , " Thirteen Ghosts " , and a little bit of water in a blender	And that's " Ghost Ship " . High computer effects , good amount of gore , and a dash of over acting . Don't you just love it ? I finally watched " Ghost Ship " with same expectations of " Thirteen Ghosts " . I loved " Thirteen Ghosts " , but " Ghost Ship " is mostly a rip off of these horror movies that have been released in the past 4 years . The movie starts off strong with awesome effects and kills . Then the plot comes . If you can even call it that . As usual " Greed will imprison us all " . I am getting a little sick of it . But at the same time , yes , I did enjoy " House on Haunted Hill " and " Thirteen Ghosts " . And it's the same message , so for that , I give it a :
Your basic " Kid Saves the Day ! " movie	Man , do I remember the craze that was " Free Willy " . I recently watched on VH1's " I love the 90's " , and they brought it up . I remembered how when I was a kid , like the interviewee's said , I thought at the end Willy was going to fall on the kid . I was kind of sick in the head . : D Just kidding . The movie isn't really something I could get into . And the plot was kind of lame . In some ways , the kid being the hero thing is just getting too old . But for other kids , I can see where they might like this . So , I'll give it credit for that . RIP Keiko !
Not that bad	When I first saw the trailer for The Comebacks , it looked absolutely horrible and I had no interest in seeing it , but when it came out on DVD today , I figured since there was nothing else that caught my interest , I would rent it and give it a shot . I watched it tonite and it really wasn't that bad . I think it was immature and stupid at times , but there were a few funny moments that made me laugh . I don't really watch many sports movies , so I wonder maybe if I saw more , maybe this movie would make more sense to me , but it's all good , I still didn't mind so much watching The Comebacks . I admit , these " stupid spoof " movies are lame , but what's the harm in a stupid joke every once in a while ? The Comebacks isn't really that bad if you give it a fair chance . Coach Fields is failing in life , family and career both , but when he is offered a chance to bring his career back to life if he can bring a looser football team into the championship . But the team is really really terrible , like beyond terrible . But with a little work and team effort they try to give it their all , even though that might turn into something more sad . The Comebacks over all isn't the worst film I've seen , I think it's good for a couple laughs and giggles . I know that this was stupid , but I couldn't help but laugh when the coach comes in the middle of a fight in the locker room and he's beating the nerd's head against the locker , just him and the nerd in general were so funny together . If you have an open mind and don't take this movie too seriously , I think you'll have a fun time watching it , if you watch it expecting it to be Oscar worthy material , this is not the movie for you .
" The Perfect Bore " is what it should be called	Ah , my head . Whenever I think of this movie , I get so bored . This was the first movie in the theater I saw with my mom alone . Her and I are fans of storms and storm movies . So , when we saw it , she dug it , I didn't . Too many people so little storm . Special effects are getting my
Merciful rating	Honest to say , since I do like Wes Craven , I will cut him a little slack . It's not his fault for this O . K . movie . It's society . And Hollywood . But I have to say that the fact that they use a lot of the original character's names ( Van Helsing , and Lucy Westera ) , in 2000 , was sad . And that Dracula was not hot . Very disapointing . Even though in Dracula ( 1992 ) the Dracula was not sexy , still this is 2001 ! Where's the hotties ? ! Wes Craven could do better than this .
You'll get no more than 2 laughs	Favorite characters from the hit T . V . show " Saturday Night Live " bring a pretty low comedy that doesn't deliver too much . There are a couple laughs , but mostly all you get is a strange feeling after this movie . Despite the characters being non stop funny in S . N . L , they don't really have a life story that can be brought into a movie . They try to live in the suburbs and fit in . The community is questionable about their apperance , but they let them be apart of it . The daughter wants to look and feel normal , and eventually does fit in with her high school . Strange that she has a normal accent of humans , I have to mention . Over all , it's not a bad movie . But I'd only watch it again if I were pretty bored .
Not exactly as bad as everyone's saying , but it is still in poor taste	I saw American Psycho a few years ago , wasn't much of a fan , the movie was very strange to me and just didn't get to me . But my sister said that I should read the book then watch the movie , which I decided to take her advice , I like the movie a lot better the second time around now that I got into the mind of Patrick Bateman . I guess I was just curious when I decided to see the sequel , now as a sequel , it's horrible , it's just an insult to the original story and makes you cringe with what they did . But as a movie on it's own , it wasn't so bad , I think that's why it's been put down so much . For some odd reason , I could totally see Mila Kunis as a serial killer , she was so dark and mysterious yet could throw people off . The story isn't original and it's weak at some points , but it over all works . Rachel is a survivor and the killer of Patrick Bateman when she was a little girl , she has now grown up and has a strong passion for studying serial killers , trying to understand them . She is attending a great college , studying under Professor Starkman , who can turn her into his teaching assistant and also a possible FBI agent . But when Starkman learns of her scary presence and also what she just might be capable of . Rachel will do anything to be his teaching assistant , even if it means by eliminating her competition . American Psycho II : All American Girl in some ways was entertaining , I think if you just let the previous story go , this is enjoyable and scary . I think it just shouldn't have been a sequel , otherwise it wouldn't get such a bum rep . Mila Kunis was cool and a strong lead , she held her own throughout the film . William Shatner , he's my only questionable casting , he's just not that great of an actor , no offense to him , but a stronger actor could've made the role more noticeable . I over all liked the film , it is by no means a bad movie , but as far as sequels go , it's pretty lame .
Uhh . . . was that supposed to be sad at the ending ? Or were we allowed to laugh ? Because I did .	A little advice to the director , STOP WITH THE SOAP OPERA ! ! ! I know that Shakespeare stories are very sad and depressing but for God's sake ! It was so over dramatic . You don't feel for the characters . You think that two of the main characters are asses . And you think that the girl is very insincere . The ending isn't sad , because ( I hate to say this about Josh Hartnett , sorry Josh ! ) but BAD ACTING ! ! ! Even though I'm a fan of Josh Hartnett and saw this movie because he was in it , I just thought this was a bad pick . And maybe O should of concentrated on getting things straight with his girl then getting even . Especially when he hasn't asked other friends and seeing if she was cheating or suspected of it . So , I believe that Shakespeare is not going to be proud . Good luck to Mekhi , Josh , and Julia . Because I know you could do better .
I just could not get through this movie	I fell asleep twice and finally just got through it . I'm not sure even if I know what the plot was . I mean , don't get me wrong , I thought this movie was very well made . The acting from the entire cast was right on . I think the director knew what he was doing . But I don't get what some people are really seeing in this film . It's a lot to swallow . I don't know , maybe I need to give it another chance . I don't hate this film and I don't love this film . So , I'm not sure what kind of a rating I should give it . I think I'll do that spitsville type of rating . Like I said , it's very well made , for that I give a lot of credit . But I think that is the only reason why this movie has a good rating on IMDb . I didn't get too much from this film . . . except a good nap .
Ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ! You're kidding right ?	Well , one of my dear friends who is just as big of a movie freak as I am told me to give American Werewolf in Paris a chance . For the most part , he has good tastes in movies so I figured if I enjoyed the first Werewolf in London , why not see the sequel ? Well , I was wrong . The director tried way way way too hard . Now I understand this movie came out at a time where CGI effects were getting bigger and bigger , but still these " werewolves " looked like statues come to life . It was so lame . The acting is just terrible and I'm not talking like horror movie horrible , I'm talking just plain bad . The plot is silly as well , but I have to admit there were still some exciting scenes . But over anything , please stick to An American Werewolf in London , the true werewolf movie !
I felt like I was watching a cheesy teen show on the Disney Channel	I was bored one night and decided to go ahead and see what Sleepover was , it was on TV , figured it might not be so bad . Well , while it did live up to my expectations , I have to say for teens , this movie wasn't so bad . First off , the first time I saw Steve Carrel on the screen , I was like " Is that Steve . . . no , it can't be . Why would he be in a movie like this ? " , and it was him . But I guess we all have to start somewhere . He was an interesting person in the cast , but it's all good . Even though I didn't really like the film , it was worth the watch , I thought it was a good idea for the " tweens " as most people are calling this genre . I suppose who doesn't dream of a sleepover like this one ? I mean it had everything , the girls had a date with their teacher ( sounds sick , I know ) , messed with authority and got away with it , and got the guys . Julie Corky is throwing a big sleepover for her friends , it's the summer before they enter high school , so they are trying to make a new name for themselves as the click crowd . After a bad night , the click leader , Staci wants to have fun and challenges Julie and her friends to a scavenger hunt where they have to do certain things throughout the night and then whoever wins will get the hot spot in high school and have lunch next to the fountain . The girls are in for one wild night and end up with the greater reward : friendships that will last a lifetime . I have to admit that Sleepover has a few cute laughs , I wouldn't deny that some moments are funny . While the movie is still very overly cheesy , it's all good for the audience it was aimed at . It was just so cute how Julie found her " true love " in the movie , lol , I'm sure most teens find their true loves like that in real life . So other than that unrealistic situation , this was just like a J-14 magazine , I feel so preppy and bubbly , I have to watch a serious movie now I think . For the teens , this is the perfect movie for them , for adults , well , begin to feel old , because if this is the way kids act now a days , then I'm glad I'm done with them .
The Cheesemaster is what it should be called	But for some reason , I admit , I somewhat enjoyed this flick despite it's incredible amount of cheesy moments and effects . I think because I used to watch this all the time when I was a kid , it's like a comfort blankie . But I mean the way Dar presented himself and how he hit on Kiri was nothing but a good laugh all the way . The villain is like a high school bully that could easily be beat . The only part of this movie to be honest with you that is just great to watch is the animals . Especially the ferrets and how just plain adorable they are ! : D I know , I know , but I would kind of recommend this movie in all good fun and humor . Sometimes you just need a good cheesy laugh , and you'll definitely receive it with The Beastmaster .
It was alright	I have seen the original Time Machine , and it didn't do anything for me . So , I heard of the remake , and I thought maybe it would be better . Boy , was I wrong . As for the remake , it's not too bad . But I perfer the original over this . Maybe I just have a weak heart for the classics . And Orlando Jones , uh uh . It's not working for me .
Cheesy but creepy	I decided to get into the Amityville Horror sequels , just for fun . I was a little worried though when I saw that this sequel had such a low rating . Despite the fact that it was cheesy and there was a very sick situation , I thought that it was a pretty decent horror movie . This movie is a prequel to the first Amityville Horror , we learn what happened the original family and how the massacre came to be . As the family moves in , Sonny , the eldest son , is starting to hear voices , voices that are telling him to kill his family . He resists at first , but is possessed by the evil . He sleeps with his younger sister , scares a priest away from the house , and eventually is led to kill his family , only Sonny doesn't remember what happened . The family priest is the only one who knows what is going on and wants to stop the evil permanently , but we all know how that goes . The make up was highly effective , I have to admit that I had chills up my spin . But like I said , the script was a bit over the top and cheesy , and the affair was sick , I mean , brother and sister ? Blah ! Well , if you like horror movies , I think you might in some way like this , but otherwise , stay away , because you might be grossed out .
The Secret of Saurus Rock	The Land Before Time VI : The Secret of Saurus Rock , the sixth installment in the Land Before Time series . Again another decent enough sequel that gets a very unfair rating , this movie was a little step below the fifth sequel , but still I did enjoy watching this sequel because it focused more on family . Also just the responsibility some kids have to face when they have a new member in the family and how hard it can be to watch out for their younger relatives . A lot of kids could relate to this story . We also have a good moral that it's OK to ask the adults for help if a child does feel responsible for something they did and wants to fix it . The Secret of Saurus Rock certainly is a good story and once again just gives us lighthearted clean fun for the family and kids . Littlefoot's grandfather tells the children a story about " The Lone Dinosaur " , a legendary longneck who once protected the Great Valley from the most ferocious sharptooth ever to live . However , the sharptooth left " The Lone Dinosaur " with a scar slashed across his right eye . Soon after the battle , a huge monolith that resembled a proud sauropod , having life-sized tyrannosaur teeth arranged around his neck , came out of the ground during an earthquake . The dinosaurs called it " Saurus Rock " . The legend also states that if anyone damages the monolith , bad luck would descend upon the valley . A few days later when the kids are playing , Littlefoot accidentally falls off a cliff . Just before he hits the ground , a strange longneck dinosaur rescues him . This longneck introduces himself only as " Doc " and gives no knowledge of his history . Littlefoot is intrigued by this newcomer , who is scarred across one eye and displays prior knowledge of the Great Valley . For the preceding reasons , Littlefoot assumes that Doc is the Lone Dinosaur . Inspired , Cera's infant niece and nephew , the twins Dinah and Dana , go to Saurus Rock without anyone noticing . Later when the friends are playing , they notice that Dinah and Dana are missing . When they finally reach Saurus Rock , they see Dinah and Dana on the top . As they climb up to rescue them , Dinah and Dana fall off the top and land on Cera , causing the life-sized stone tooth on which she is standing to break off . Over the next few days , ill fortunes ranging from injuries to a tornado plague the valley . The adults blame Doc , in whose wake the misfortunes have apparently come , while Littlefoot blames himself and his friends , recalling the breaking of Saurus Rock . But Littlefoot is convinced that he can fix everything by going back to break off a dinosaur's sharp tooth to save the valley . The Land Before Time VI : The Secret of Saurus Rock is a good movie , I really liked the tribute to the lone ranger . Granted I know some kids won't get the little tribute to him , but it's still fun for them to see a dinosaur kind of cowboy , as silly as that sounds , it was good for the film . I also loved how Littlefoot just had this big heart and wanted to fix everything for his family and the other's in the Valley . The Secret of Saurus Rock is very fun to watch , I think it's a little notch below from what I've seen so far in the series , but not enough to say that this was a dreadful movie , I liked it and do recommend it for the kids and family .
I saw it when it came out in theaters , it's been a year . And I still can't decide if I liked it or not !	I was very impressed that there were no computer effects . Or that the director tried to make like pop out in your eyes scary . But I just couldn't decide on this film . It's so hard . I've been pulling my hair out over it . So , my mom got the movie . And I tried watching it again , and I'm still undecided ! How is this possible ? ! Maybe I'm loosing it . Oh , well .
Your basic pre-teen movie	I have to admit , I was 12 when this came out . I was in love with it . I was the age they were aimed at . I saw this on the Disney channel last night . I thought I would still love it . I have recently discovered that tastes change . And sometimes for the better . Although , I still think it was a cute little comedy . 12 year olds will definitely enjoy it . I wouldn't doubt that . The acting and the story are just a little lame . And of course there always is a message to be learned . Afer all , this was on the Disney channel . But it's better then most of the trash 12 year olds watch today . So , I would suggest it for them .
It's an alright film , nothing special , nothing scary , just wanna be Lost Boys in the hot deserts	Gosh , I remember seeing this movie when it was released in the theaters , a friend from school and I both are just the biggest vampire movie fans you'll meet . You name the vampire movie , I've probably seen it or at least have heard of it . So we naturally saw the trailer for The Forsaken and didn't even hesitate to see this movie , it just looked so awesome . Ever since The Lost Boys , we haven't had a really good teenage vampire movie that could be a new classic for my generation ? well , sadly this failed . Now honestly it's not a horrible movie , but it just didn't thrill me . The story isn't anything special and the cast is pretty forgettable , I'm not digging the " make up " effects they had considering these " vampires " didn't have any fangs at all , but I didn't feel like my time was totally wasted . Sean is driving cross country to his sister's wedding when he picks up Nick , a hitchhiker who happens to be a vampire hunter hunting a group of vampires led by Kit , one of the Forsaken . The Forsaken are a group of French Knights that during the First Crusade made a pact with the demon Abbadon to live forever . Nick was bitten by a vampire but thanks to a drug cocktail the vampire virus is kept at bay . Nick is hunting this particular Forsaken : he believes him to be the one that his strain of the vampire virus is descended from and that if he kills him he will not eventually turn into a vampire . At first Sean is less than willing to indulge his new acquaintance , but then they find Megan , a girl Sean finds he is attracted to , bitten and left for dead by the vampires . Nick also proves he is telling the truth by killing a vampire , Teddy , by exposure to sunlight . When Sean is infected with the vampire virus , their only hope is to kill the vampire leader before it is too late . The Forsaken is just alright movie , the reason I say that it didn't totally waste my time is because it did have a couple good scenes here and there . I thought that the scene where the guys and the girl go to the hotel room to find out if the girl was bitten by a vampire and get some sleep , then they see the vampires go into the room across from them was pretty intense . The vampires of the movie were pretty decent as villains , but Simon Rex as this sort of updated retarded Reinfield , it's like if Reinfield and Forrest Gump had a child , it'd be Simon Rex and he just didn't get enough character development for us to care at all about him . There are still things that need to be fixed with the script , but I wouldn't say this is a horrible movie , I would just say that you shouldn't go out of your way to see it .
Stupid funny , one of the better Adam Sandler movies , but still he hasn't had a real hit since The Wedding Singer	Adam Sandler was recently given on MTV the Generation Award , he was praised for all the " comedy " has given us , from the good old days from Saturday Night Live all the way up to I Now Pronounce You Chuck and Larry . Back in the good old days up to Big Daddy Adam Sandler has always delivered big laughs and was a always a pleasure to watch on screen . But unfortunately , he's come out lately with the very predictable comedies where you could predict who was going to be in it , what lines would be said and what out come would happen . It hasn't been fun ; Adam has also brought some dramatic roles that surprised us all such as Spanglish and Reign Over Me . He now brought us You Don't Mess with the Zohan going back into the funny accent like he did with his smash hit The Waterboy , sometimes offending us and sometimes just giving us some great laughs . Zohan is the top terrorist hunter in Isreal , everything could just keep going for him , but he hates all the fighting and his life long dream is to actually be a hair stylist . He fakes his death and runs away to America to start his dream , but things don't go so smoothly at first . After defending a man , Michael , from a jerk , Michael takes Zohan in . Zohan finds a little hair salon , he starts off as a sweeper , but then after a stylist quits , he takes a client and does a great job as well as , well , giving her all the satisfaction she could have . Zohan brings the shop's popularity back up while finding his true love , Dalia . But when a taxi driver that Zohan insulted sees him , all the hatred comes back to Zohan ten fold . You Don't Mess with the Zohan is a lot better than I Now Pronounce You Chuck and Larry in my opinion , but it's still not Sandler's best comedy . I don't think he's had such a great hit since The Wedding Singer , his comedies have just become so predictable and just . . . I know this is a bad word , dumb . You Don't Mess with the Zohan is offensive at times , I'm a white American , and I was offended for the Isreali culture , because Adam does take it a little far . Not to mention the hummus joke goes farther than it really should . But I do admit , there are some funny parts , I did laugh when he went into the children's salon and gave this kid the pinch and knocked him out . Sounds horrible , it's a funny scene though . You Don't Mess with the Zohan has it's moments , but if you ask me , I would recommend to wait for the rental .
Kind of ridicules , but still a fun film	The other day I was renting Father of the Bride and I figured to go ahead and grab the sequel . The great thing about it is that the original cast was back so I thought this had a good chance of being as good as the first . So I watched the first Father of the Bride and really loved it , so I watched Part 2 right afterwards , I have to say this movie is a bit unbelievable . Now getting pregnant the same time as your mother , it's cool , I can believe it because my grandmother and great grandmother were both pregnant at the same time , but they didn't give birth at the same time at the same hospital . That just seemed a little too " coincidental " and out of the blue . But Father of the Bride Part 2 still delivers good laughs even if the plot is predictable and unbelievable . George and the family are doing well and are just enjoying life , he's even grown to like Bryan . When Annie and Bryan come over , they announce big news that they are pregnant , everyone is so excited , except for George who has just accepted his daughter being married , now he's going to be a grandpa ? But the plot thickens , Nina is pregnant too with George's baby , like mother , like daughter , and when Bryan has to go out of town for work , George has to take over , but with Franck Eggelhoffer's help , that won't be too hard . Father of the Bride Part 2 is predictable and like I said it does get ridicules at times , but it still is a fun film for you and the family . I have to admit that the ending was very sweet , but I won't give that away , you'll have to see for yourself . Steve Martin , I felt so bad for him how hard he was trying to take care of his wife and daughter at the same time , poor guy . Franck Eggelhoffer really delivers the laughs this round , he and Steve , when George falls asleep and Annie goes into labor , Franck tries to carry George and has a hard time is so funny . Fater of the Bride Part 2 is worth the time and look , it's a cute movie over all .
It started out as an awesome sequel , but then became very predictable and it lost some spice	I was looking forward to The Legend of Zorro after being very happy with The Mask of Zorro , I have also been falling more and more in love with Antonio Bandares lately . He and Catherine had the greatest chemistry in the first Zorro movie , but it turned into a Mummy's Return kind of romance , where it just fizzled out and seemed to have not as much chemistry as the first . Zorro is back with his love Elena , but she is fed up with him and wants a divorce since he keeps flaking out on his promises of quitting his job and staying with her and their son , Joquien . He barely knows his family , therefore Elena demands a divorce . She moves onto a count , but it turns out that this count wants to destroy and make California his state and not a state of freedom . Zorro must defend the state and win back his family , but can he do it all at the same time ? The Legend of Zorro has some fun humor and great action sequences here and there , but it is the story that fizzles out and it just seemed like everyone lost their edge . If you are interested in seeing this movie , you might want to give it a chance , you never know , you may like it , unfortunately , I wasn't into it .
You really have to take it for what it's worth	I decided that I would try to get into the Steve Martin flicks , my mom being such a huge fan of his , she has all of his movies , so I figured it might be an interesting genre to get into . She recommended that I start off with The Lonely Guy , she said it was a cute and sweet comedy that I would get a few laughs at and that's exactly what it was . You can tell right off the bat that this is an early Steve Martin flick , kind of when he was just getting started in his movies , bringing his stand up to the silver screen . The Lonely Guy is about a man , Larry , who just got dumped by his girl and meets another lonely guy in the park , Warren . Together they figure out a way to get out of this lonely guy phase . Larry ends up meeting Iris , an insecure girl who is not sure of what she wants with Larry but ends up falling for him . Larry ends up writing a successful book called " The Lonely Guy " and makes a great turn for the world . Over all , I'd have to say that I enjoyed " The Lonely Guy " , like my mom and I said , it's just a cute and sweet little movie to enjoy with some mild humor that will make you laugh a little . But I'm looking forward to future Steve Martin movies , I think Roxanne might be next .
Not bad , but not great	I loved The Little Mermaid , it's one of my all time favorite Disney movies , I grew up with it and I still watch it every once in a while . I just showed it to my 5 year old cousin for the first time since it was recently released on DVD , so she wanted to see the second one when we were at the video store and we just watched it and we over all had a good time . While I wasn't that impressed , it was better than most Disney sequels that are normally lame and predictable . Ariel and Eric have had a daughter , Melody . Mel is now becoming a teenager and cannot understand why she has such a great love for the sea , but Ariel forbids Mel from going to the sea not knowing when the right time would be to tell Mel about all her family history . But Mel has had it and wants to be a mermaid when Morgana , the evil sister of Ursela , grants Mel's wish , she can stay a mermaid if she steals her grandfather's trident so Morgana can become leader of the sea . Over all , I would recommend this for a family afternoon , it was a charming cartoon to watch . The Little Mermaid will always be the best , but The Little Mermaid II : Return to the Sea was a nice follow up that you very rarely see in today's Disney sequels . Again , what freaks me out though is typically they change the voices again and again for the characters , but I think I had a better time excepting it for this film .
It was fun in the theater , that's about it	I saw Poseidon opening day with my mom and we both actually enjoyed the film , I mean , the special effects were cool and it was interesting to see a new updated version . However , like most disaster films , this is only really worth seeing in the theater because the movie itself is kind of lame . The plot is very stereotypical with characters , inaccurate situations , and plot situations in general . I prefer the original Poseidon Adventure because I think I could relate more to the characters . Besides this film being more accurate on special effects on what would happen to the ship after turning over , I just had more fun with the original . But I would recommend this for a new and refreshed viewing of Poseidon , but like I said , it's only for the theater .
Actually not as bad as some have lead it to be	I recently bought the " atomic wedgie " edition of the Revenge of the Nerds . It has all the four movies , so I watched Revenge of the Nerds III : The Next Generation this afternoon and once again after looking at the IMDb rating , I was a bit scared on what to expect , but so far , I'm really liking these movies . Yeah , they're a bit ridicules , not to mention that I think Revenge of the Nerds III : The Next Generation took a different direction than the original Nerd film , but it's all good . I thought it was actually a fun story and a new introduction of all nerds uniting together and showing who really takes care of the jocks in the world . Lewis has now turned himself into a huge stud and is living with his wife , Betty . His nephew and his nephew's friend have gone to the same college and have joined the Lamb's , but we have a new dean in town , Stan is back ! He and an alumni of the school are joining together to ban all nerds from the town . The nerds call on Lewis to get back to his nerd roots and help them take over the town , hopefully Lewis can get past this silly smooth operator appearance , because it's not working for him or the nerds that need him most . Revenge of the Nerds III : The Next Generation is nothing special , but it still has a few laughs . I really didn't think it was bad , at least not as bad as the rating would on IMDb led me on . Revenge of the Nerds III : The Next Generation is just a fun movie that I think people need to be open too , it's a different direction in the story but it works over all . So just give it a shot , I think you'll actually enjoy this story , after all , everyone's gotta love the nerds .
Really not as funny as I was expecting	I am such a huge fan of Simon Pegg , I really love this guy , he is such a great comedic actor and has so much potential , but what is with How to Lose Friends & Alienate People ? How did he get this mediocre script ? Now granted , I'm going to give this movie a little credit , it's better than most romantic comedies , but I'm just so sadly disappointed with this movie . I was so excited to see it because from the trailer it looked incredibly funny , but you know those movies where all the funny parts are shown in the trailer , then you see the movie and the rest of the film just doesn't get you like the trailer did ? That's How to Lose Friends & Alienate People in a nutshell . Simon Pegg is funny , but for some reason he seems more forced than usual in this movie and his chemistry with Kirsten Dunst is off . While there are some funny moments , this is not the laugh out loud comedy I was expecting . Sydney Young has always dreamed of rubbing elbows with the big time celebrities , he has a job as a celebrity journalist , but he's not exactly well known , so he's constantly thrown out of the parties and award shows . He is offered a job at Sharp's Magazine in New York City , but he's not having the easiest time being accepted by his peers . They think he's a creep , a loser , a low life , etc . But with the help of sarcastic journalist , Alison Olsen , Sydney is soon rubbing his elbows with the rich and famous hoping to date the gorgeous new hot actress , Sophie Maes . How to Lose Friends & Alienate People didn't do well here in the U . S . and I think because it didn't receive the proper publicity . Simon Pegg needs to make one movie that is really going to stand out here in the U . S . that will give him the proper push into a great leading man around the world . Kirsten doesn't look like she really enjoyed making this film and I think that's what threw her and Simon off , she seemed as forced as Simon , so this film didn't really work . There are a couple laughs here and there , but nothing to really get excited about , so I'm just going to say if you want to still see this movie , I'd recommend just doing a rental , it's a basic romantic comedy , just nothing too special .
Over rated	I watched this movie in the influence of my friends . They said it was one of the best movies they saw . I wasn't into it . It reminded me almost too much of " Dirty Dancing " . I did like the acting and there was nice coregraphing . But it wasn't my type of movie .
Now actually on it's own , it wasn't that bad , but compared to Creepshow , yeah , you'll be disappointed	I loved the Creepshow movies , I thought they had great creativity and scary stories that are always fun to watch . So when I saw Creepshow III at the video store , I thought why not ? I didn't check out the rating first on IMDb , I actually watched it first , after finishing it , I didn't think it was that bad if you held it away from the first two creepshow movies . It was definitely different compared to the last films , but I think it still worked over all . Except for the radio story , that was just plain bad and beyond unbelievable the way these characters reacted . There are some things that are missed , but I was able to get past them . The first story was Alice , a snobby girl who needs a lesson on manners and gets it when her father gets a " universal " remote control . Then there is a story of an alcoholic who needs goals and is told by a radio he buys off the street what to do . Then there is a murdering prostitute woman , Rachel , who gets the tables turned on her with a client who may have a little more " bite " than usual . Then there is a doctor who needs a major attitude adjustment and is haunted by a homeless man's ghost that he treated badly . Then there is a professor who's wife may not be what she seems to a couple of young boys . Over all I wouldn't say this was the most awful movie I've ever seen , because I'm more than sure that I've seen worse . Yeah , it shouldn't have named itself after two great horror movies , but it just had the same type of style and idea , so I think people should just give it a break . It's just a horror movie for good fun and I think if you really gave it shot you might like it .
Not a big fan of it , but it was better than the first	I have only met one person who didn't like this film . So , I decided to give it a shot , even though I disliked the first " American Pie " . I have to admit , I had a couple laughs . But there were still a lot of jokes that were too close to the first one . The plot was also the same . I don't mind that too much . But if you didn't enjoy the first one , you won't get a big kick out of this one . I did enjoy some of the jokes . And the story was a point above the first one . So , if you loved the 1st , be my guest . If you didn't enjoy the 1st one , still give the 2nd a shot . You don't know what you may get . Some may actually just enjoy the 2nd one alone . Who knows ? Maybe I'll even watch " American Wedding " .
The cheesiest fun you will ever have . . . if you're 12	Well I have officially entered the mind of a lot of the children in this world , I am trying to understand what this generation's music and television are like . So I have watched Hannah Montana , The Jonas Brothers , and now High School Musical . . . frankly I've gone where no 23 year old girl should go , I feel as if I have taken some really bad drugs that no one should ever take . OK , I'm over reacting , but my cousin wanted me to watch the High School Musical movies , the first one wasn't really as bad as I was expecting , the sequel isn't really up to par , but honestly this wasn't as bad as the rating says it is . I admit that it is a pretty lame movie and has really cheesy songs , but take it for what it is . Just the title alone should say something considering that it takes place on the beach . This is the classic 60's beach musical with the cheesy looking actors and oh so dreamy cast members . Troy and Gabrielle are just looking forward to their summer together , but power hungry Sharpay wants Troy for herself and gets her country club to offer him a job , but he will only take it if his friends and Gabrielle can have a job too . Sharpay does whatever she can to make sure that she keeps Troy's mind off his friends and Gabrielle so she can make him enter the talent show with him so she can look good . Troy gets promoted and of course looses track of who he really is , leaving his friends behind wearing his new Italian loafers . High School Musical 2 is a must see of course if you are a fan of the movies , but they are very overly cheesy . The first high school musical film had reminded me of Grease , the sequel reminded me a little bit of Footloose , especially with Zac Effron's solo , but he is certainly no Kevin Bacon ( even if that was a stunt Bacon in the dance moves ) . I probably won't watch this again , but the thing that is nice about these films is that as cheesy as they are , they're perfect for the kids , they need a musical as well , so these movies are perfect for them . They have fun songs that kids can dance too and just beautiful people , isn't it just wonderful ? Sorry , had to say it , you know it's true with these movie covers .
Invasion of the Tinysauruses	The Land Before Time XI : Invasion of the Tinysauruses , the eleventh installment in The Land Before Time series . After seeing the last Land Before Time movie , The Great Longneck Adventure , it was a terrific movie so I was really looking forward to this sequel . Now still this was a fun movie , had a decent story and the animation was good , just it wasn't as good as I was expecting , but it's a good movie still . This story is one that I'm too familiar with from every sit com in the world , the problem with size , how many kids are either too small or too big and are so concerned with their mega or lack their of ability of growing . But it's always a moral tale that needs a good repeat for the new generation and The Land Before Time now takes it on . But still I loved the animation , the colors are getting brighter and the movement of the characters are more clean . How could you not enjoy these sequels ? Littlefoot and his friends are a joy to watch on screen together and the writers added another story of the difficulty of accepting another adult into a child's life , Invasion of the Tinyauruses is a good movie . Every year , as the warm season approaches , a certain tree in the Great Valley blooms with pink flowers . Since they are so delicious , every dinosaur in the valley wants his / her fair share of it . Littlefoot and his friends Ducky , Petrie and Spike are eagerly waiting to nibble the first treesweets . Ducky tries to take one , but Littlefoot quickly tells her to stop and reminds them all that none may take any treesweets until " Nibbling Day " . Meanwhile , Cera's father is visited by an old friend , a female treehorn named Tria , it seems he used to have a crush on her . Cera doesn't take as kindly to her as her father does as she is jealous of her relationship with her father being put on hold because of Tria . Littlefoot , meanwhile , goes off by himself , feeling very down about how " little " he is . As he returns to the treesweet tree , he climbs up the cliff right next to it and tries to reach the treesweets by himself . As he does , he accidentally falls right through the tree and knocks down every single treesweet . He finds himself surrounded by several miniature longnecks . They have eaten all the treesweets and quickly run away once the shocked Littlefoot starts screaming out of fear . Upon noticing that every treesweet is gone , all the dinosaurs in the valley are standing in front of the tree ; they all suspect Littlefoot to be the guilty party . Littlefoot , afraid to admit it was his fault that the treesweets fell off the tree , blames everything on the tiny longnecks . Littlefoot falls down a pothole in the ground where , it turns out , the tiny longnecks are hiding in . First being afraid of them , Littlefoot flees deeper into the cave ; but soon enough , he finds out that the tiny longnecks are not as bad as he thought and befriends them . Upon hearing how difficult it is for the tinysauruses to find food , he promises to help bring them as many treestars as he can every night . But he's still not sure how to explain their existence to the valley without getting blamed for the treesweets accident . The Land Before Time XI : Invasion of the Tinysauruses was a good sequel , not the best but still worth the watch . Littlefoot is getting a little more mature with each story , I loved how he stood up to the valley and defended the little longnecks . The little longnecks were so cute and a great addition to the story . One story I did appreciate was the one between Cera , her father and Tria , a lot of kids have a difficult time when their parents split and start dating again so I think this was a good story to show . So over all The Land Before Time XI : Invasion of the Tinysauruses is worth the watch , it's a good sequel . So far it seems like the only reason people are complaining about these sequels are just because there are so many of them , my advice is to get over it , I'm glad I got into them . They are fun movies to watch for yourself , the family or your kids . I do recommend Invasion of the Tinysauruses , trust me , I'm always honest with the reviews .
Back in Training	A few years ago I watched Police Academy , which became one of my favorite comedies , but I never could find any of the sequels . Even though I have been warned that these sequels are not any good , I'm still curious , I just finished Police Academy 3 : Back in Training last night and even though it's not as funny as the first Police Academy film , it still has a few decent laughs . I think the ratings here on IMDb are so low because a lot of people are not giving these movies a good chance . If you wanna see these sequels , just have an open mind to it , because some of these sequels are still pretty funny . I liked having the gang back together , even good old obnoxious Zed , and they've added a few new characters to the story that are so much fun to watch . Due to money shortage , the governor has to cut one of the two police academies in the city . The way to choose which academy is going to last is a competition , to see which pulls out the best trained policemen . So the class of 1984 is back to help their academy out and help train new recruits , including our villain from the second Police Academy , Zed , has decided to clean up his act while picking on a poor little nerd , Sweetchuck , but end up being quite the funny pair together . But the other academy is going to do whatever they can to sabotage and win the competition away from Lasard's Police Academy . No , this isn't by any means a pure comedy that has you constantly laughing , but it still delivers a few good moments . I know he is getting little obnoxious , but Michael Winslow with the voices , I loved when he was training a student and making noises like she was a bad driver , then he stopped and said " ok , if I hear any of those noises , you fail " . Back in Training is worth the look if you're interested in seeing the sequels , I would recommend it , Back in Training has it's laughs , just have an open mind and have fun .
Predictable and lacked chemistry	May I start off that Gregory and Billy really lacked chemistry that a buddy cop movie should have ? It just didn't seem right and they couldn't really feed off each other . And for the most part you could only really laugh at Billy's jokes . Not to mention just how predictable this movie was . Because let's face it , you've seen one buddy movie , you've seen them all . But I would like to still say that there were some pretty funny moments in the movie . I especially loved when Greg and Billy took the villain's car and the villain calls the car phone and they just shrug it off . For some funny moments , I would recommend , but if you are very serious about films , you might want to skip this one .
Decent , but over acted and things are still not explained to well	After seeing the first trailer for Vantage Point , I have to say that it really did not catch my attention , it looked like one of those typical thrillers that tries to confuse people so much into thinking that " well , I don't get it , it's so intelligent , I have to like it " type of movies . But I decided to just go ahead and give it a chance this afternoon and I have to say that it is definitely better than I expected , in fact , over all I think I did enjoy it . But there are still some major flaws to this film , like the acting . We have some fantastic actors , some who have won Oscars , been nominated for Oscars , or are known for doing some great movies . So , Dennis Quaid , very over the top and in some ways unbelievable , like a stunt that was pulled that I'll explain later . Most of the actors looked like they had just read the script the day before and just looked lost . The plot was typical and needed a little more . The president of the United States is due to make a very important speech in Spain , the speech to end all international terrorism . But all that has changed when he is shot and killed in front of everyone . But not everything is all it seems . From several points of view : the president , the body guard , an American visitor with a camera , the terrorist , and a black mailed man , we learn the juicy details in this mixed up and crazy thriller . Now basically , this film does have quite a bit of technology , which in some ways frightened me , the past year we've seen films where technology has taken over , especially video camera's , can be helpful , can be a little much . It's just weird to know this is the type of society we live in where everything is filmed and there is no such thing as privacy or mystery . Back on what also I was going to say about the stunts , Dennis Quaid gets into a HORRIBLE car accident , goes walking away without a single scratch , just a small limp . There were a few plot holes not to mention , it was hard to keep up with who was a bad guy who was a good guy and they never got back to certain characters . Over all , this isn't the worst film , but it's not the best film of the year , so it's up to you to see it , it's a strange one to recommend .
I liked it	I rented Maid in Manhattan the other day and watched it last night , but before I had watched it , I looked at the rating on IMDb and I saw the low rating and I was like " Oh , no , I've picked another bad movie " . I don't know why I wanted to see this movie , just I figured I needed a romantic comedy in my selection , so I just grabbed it and even after that rating I thought this was going to be a bad movie . But as it turns out this really wasn't a bad movie at all . Yeah , it has minor flaws here and there , this isn't movie of the year , but over all I would say that it was pretty cute . Marisa is a single mom in Manhattan who is a working maid in one of the top hotels . She is also up for a big promotion as a manager and is hoping to help her fellow employees . When she and a co-worker are just fooling around and wondering what it's like to try on over 5 , 000 dollars worth of clothes , Marisa gets caught by a politician who her son is excited to meet . She has to convince him that nothing can happen between them without letting him know what she did and who she really is , but it might be too strong of a connection for both of them to let go so easily . Maid in Manhattan is predictable and I think Marisa's character wasn't really as developed as I would like her to be because she came off as kinda rude and judgmental . But over all , I wouldn't say this is a 4 . 5 rated movie , I think people were probably just jumping on the movie because it is Jennifer Lopez , I would agree , I'm not into her either , but I can't resist if I do like a movie or not and I wanna be honest if I like a movie . So please just give the movie a shot if you're looking for a sweet romantic comedy .
Oh , those silly angels , if only they weren't so exploited	I remember in 2000 , I was a sophomore in high school , so naturally , you'd think this movie would've been perfect for me . But I got so annoyed with how advertised it was and how Cameron , Drew , and Lucy just wouldn't stop holding hands ! It was just so annoying and Charlie's Angels proved to be that this was the director's wet dream when he was a pre-teen looking up at those famous Farah Faucett posters . Charlie's Angels was a fun TV series in the 70's about three very attractive ladies : Alex , Dylon , and Natalie who fought crime and just had so much fun with their sex appeal . It was a fun time and wasn't too exploited , well , if you watch this movie , forget all that . I decided to wait until I was ready to watch this movie without being so judgemental , well , it reached my expectations when I was 15 ! Basically , the girls are just trying to save Charlie's life from a villain who thinks Charlie killed his dad . This film made me wonder , the 70's action sequences worked so well , so why did we need all the CGI effects in this film ? Not to mention , Cameron Diaz could break easily , this was so not believable . Cameron , Lucy , and Drew , these girls just didn't seem like the perfect angels . But maybe that's just me . Charlie's Angels wasn't as bad as I expected , but still , that's not saying much , it just couldn't stay on the right direction and was too exploited . I wouldn't mind taking a peek at the sequel , I'm hoping maybe they might do something right , but if the rating on IMDb is right , maybe I should think first .
Remind me to buy George and Kathy a housewarming gift .	I seriously said that at the end . It's like , " That's it ? That's what I'm left with ? " Come on ! The house wasn't that evil ! It scarred off solicitors for heaven's sake ! Who wouldn't want this house ? It adds a little excitement to a family's life ! And I'm pretty sure that babysitter that got locked in the closet was going to strike the children ! LOL ! I'm kidding . This is a pretty corny movie by today's standards . I am interested in seeing the remake after watching this , I think the remake will probably be scarier . Over all , it's not a bad bad movie , it just leaves you feeling . . . empty inside .
An undecided vote	OK , after reading and hearing of votes for and against " Van Helsing " , I still wanted to see it . I took my mom to see it yesterday after it making a killing at the box office . I am still in a tose . I'm not sure whether I liked it or not . It's kind of like " Signs " , I just don't know if it was good or bad . There was things I liked , Frankenstein's character , Igor , the special effects , and the interesting story . But there were some things I didn't like , Kate Beckingsale's character , they tried to make some of the side kick's funny when they couldn't , and the lame and predictable plots of the story . Over all , you should judge for yourself . I can't really say whether this is a movie ultimatley worth seeing . But it's based on what you enjoy : computer effects or a story . If you want the computer effects , this is the movie for you . If you want a full story , it may not work for you . I'm still tied . Maybe in a year or two , I'll decide . :
Ah , so that's where Corey Feldman went	I was starting to wonder . Well , I saw this movie on Comedy Central . And I was a little disturbed with the movie . It's kind of stupid . But I do love " Tales from the Crypt " , so , I figured I'd go out and rent it . Without censorship . It's ok . Not my cup of tea . But I did get a couple laughs .
Typical 80's buddy cop film that misses more than hits	My mom bought Red Heat on DVD a few weeks ago and she had mentioned how much she loved the movie to me and that I should check it out . I had an hour and a half to waste last night so I figured I would give the movie a shot and I'm wondering why my mom is so in love with this film like it was the best film of the 80's . But I guess everyone has their different tastes . See , I had absolutely no problem with Arnold , he did everything he was supposed to do , but it was his chemistry with Belushi , it didn't really work since Belushi is more annoying than funny . Belushi just ruined the chemistry they could have had to make this a memorable buddy cop film . Ivan is from Russia , he goes to Chicago , Illinois to find a villain who is slowly turning Russia into the next Miami . Well , Ivan must work with Art Ridzik , a cop from Chicago , when the villain gets away . Together they must find out how to capture him , but Art is going to have a hard time with the " iron jawed " soldier who likes to do things his own way . Not to mention Ivan with Art who has to stick by the American book of police brutality . Red Heat isn't a bad movie , it was cool seeing one of Gina Gershon's first roles in film , she actually did a decent job in Red Heat ; it wasn't a surprise that she made it big afterwards . Arnold did a good job as well , I loved how monotone his lines were , he was great . But it was Belushi who just killed it for me , no offense to Jim , but he's not John , I recommend that he just stays away from comedies .
The Time of the Great Giving	The Land Before Time III : The Time of the Great Giving of course is the third installment into the Land Before Time story . When I got the opportunity to see all the sequels , I definitely took up on it , even though these sequels are given such a hard time , I'm still curious what they were about . I do love just a nice little family movie every once in a while , something light hearted and an occasional laugh . Now the second Land Before Time movie wasn't as bad as I was expecting , so I went into the third installment with good hope . Now it's definitely to as good as the first or second Land Before Time , but it's still enjoyable and something that I'm sure your kids will enjoy . Littlefoot and his friends are constantly being bullied and browbeaten by three teenage dinosaurs : Hyp , Nod , and Mutt . However , when a shower of meteorites impacts near the Great Valley and causes a rock slide in the Mysterious Beyond , which blocks the water supply of the Great Valley , Hyp , Nod , and Mutt are no longer the biggest worry of Littlefoot and his friends . The increasing lack of water causes conflicts between the inhabitants of the Great Valley , who have lived in relative peace and harmony until this event . When the interspecies situation becomes worse and worse , Littlefoot and the others set out to find water , to keep the peace in the Great Valley . They are pursued by Hyp and his friends . When Littlefoot and the others find a small lake , the teenagers emerge and claim the waterhole for themselves , demanding that Littlefoot and the others keep silent about their discovery . Unwilling to comply , Littlefoot and the others flee from the bullies and during the following pursuit discover the reason for the blockage of the Great Valley's water source . Before they can return and tell the other Valley inhabitants the truth , a lightning strike ignites a wildfire that spreads rapidly through the dried Valley . The dinosaurs barely make it to safety at the edge of the Mysterious Beyond while the fire ravages their home . When the protagonists tell the other dinosaurs of their discovery of the water's being blocked in the Mysterious Beyond by the rock slide , disunity about what to do prevents the adult dinosaurs from doing anything to utilize this knowledge . Hyp , Mutt , and Nod set out into the Mysterious Beyond on their own to get to the water first . But Littlefoot and his friends are on their tails to find a way for them to share the water with the rest of the Valley . Over all The Land Before Time III : The Time of the Great Giving is a good movie , it's worth the watch for the kids , but is made more so for them rather than the adults to join in on it as well , but it's all good . Littlefoot and his friends are still a joy to watch on the screen as they get into these new adventures . So far these sequels are really not as bad as everyone says they are so I am looking forward to watching the fourth installment of the Land Before Time series , they're cute for the kids .
Better than the second one , but I'm still not digging it	Now , the main problem with this film was the plot . It wasn't the actors , because they actually did a decent job . It wasn't the director , because it seemed like he knew what he was doing . It was the plot , plain and simple , the plot . First off , Corvis turning into the crow ? No , didn't work for me . I didn't feel for these characters at all to tell the truth . The script didn't develop them as well as the first " Crow " did . So that was a major problem , I didn't feel that Corvis and Lauren had a strong love because they repeatedly showed the same loving scene between them . " Was that their only romantic moment ? " I thought . See , the first " Crow " showed many memories of Shelly and Eric that were loving and touching , it showed how much they loved each other and it would never die . Another problem I had was the make up was naturally on Corvis and didn't give any depth to his anger on the murder of his girlfriend . Kirsten Dunst seemed really out of place and was just another copy off of Sarah from the first " Crow " . The villains , they were not that disturbing . Everything just didn't go in depth enough for me to care . For the " Crow " fans , I would recommend to complete the trilogy . But to other movie fans looking for a good rent , forget it .
Even though it's a bad movie , I thought it was better than the first	OK , I admit the fart jokes are a little too much , and Janet does nothing but pretty much smile and look hot in the film . Eddie goes a little far with some jokes , but over all , I hate to admit but will , I did kind of in some sick way enjoyed the film . Maybe I just needed a good laugh and needed to enjoy myself . Sometimes I think you need to let go and have some fun , or maybe I was just touched by the ending . : ) But I would recommend this if you had fun with the first film or even didn't . Again , the jokes are stupid and the story is cheesy , but I think we should all just have a good time with this nutty professor once again .
It actually started off pretty strong , but you remember the scenes where the bodies just feel into ashes ? That's what happened to this movie .	After seeing the trailer to Pulse , I had no interest in seeing this movie , it looked like your typical non scary Asian rip off of a film . But my friend just so desperately wanted to see it , so we rented it and watched it last night , while I wouldn't say that this was a great film , it was good , just an average horror film that had good potential , it just needed work . Some things were left unexplained and the ending just well . . . ended . But the film in the first hour was pretty good , I think they just didn't think it through , you know ? Not to mention the acting got pretty crappy towards the ending . Mattie is worried about her ex boyfriend , Josh , since he left a weird message on her answering machine , so she decides to check on him herself at his apartment . There is a scary looking cat in the closet , the place is a mess , and Josh looks like he's not having a nice day , he hangs himself while she's there . All of a sudden there is a " suicide " epidemic we find out later is being caused by the ghosts who are spreading through technology . It actually sounds silly , but it worked for a little while , the makers of this film just got a little cocky or something . It's better than most of the Asian horror film remakes I've seen , but that's still not saying too much . But I always tell my mom to give a movie a shot , because you never know , you might like this film , I don't think it deserves a 4 . 0 rating , believe me when I say , that I've seen worse .
Not something I'd watch again , but I don't regret watching it	Seriously people , I thought that this was an honest , funny , and cute movie . The plot is a bit lame , of course , I mean what were you expecting from a Lindsay Lohan movie ? But still , I thought that it was just a fun little flick to watch . I loved having fun with my friends when we watched it because we were coming up with ideas on how Lindsay and this guy could still be together and how they'd have to have a chart and take turns with the luck . Maybe that's why I enjoyed it so much . But as a movie , yeah , it was a little lame . There were still a lot of funny and cute scenes , like when Lindsay looses her luck and she has to work as a janitor at her crush's old job . Her working in the high heels was so funny . I guess because I'm a girl and could relate to it . So , give this movie a chance , it really isn't that bad . If you are looking for it to be bad , than don't watch it .
Atari was a joke ! A sick joke ! Spit ! I spit on Atari ! : -	Another film that my friend lent me , man , it's like she lent me the Brady Bunch variety pack of family friendly movies . : - P Eh , it's all good . But she bought this recently at a store and told me how it was one of her favorite childhood movies , when I told her I never saw it , she looked at me all shocked and told me that I simply had to see this movie . That it was so adorable and a great family film , so she lent it to me and here is my review . It's about this boy , Davey , and his imaginary friend , Jack Flack . Together they go on an adventure when Davey is in a hospital and sees a scientist who has just been shot and gives him a " Cloak and Dagger " game cover and tells him it's top secret . It turns out that the game opens up secrets of military weapons and now Davey is being chased by the bad guys who want this secret , but who can he trust ? It was an alright film , I can see myself enjoying it when I was a kid , but as an adult , I wasn't really amused . I guess when you grow up with something , you still will always have a soft part in your heart for the movie , I think that's the case for my friend . But I'd recommend it for the kids despite some major unrealistic situations , it was a cute family film .
The CGI is a little bit too much and takes away from the story	I remember a year ago seeing the trailer for Beowulf and to be honest , nothing seemed too special about it . I know the poem , lucky enough I never had to read it , my friends said it was boring , so never found interest enough to read it on my own . I saw Beowulf on DVD for rental and figured just to go ahead and check it out . So I watched the film this morning and honestly , I wasn't that impressed with it . The story itself was an interesting one and I think I might read the poem after all , although from what I'm reading from here on IMDb , the movie wasn't all that accurate to the poem itself . But my main problem with the film is the CGI , I know this is a fantasy type of film , but Lord of the Rings was able to pull off a fantasy type of feel with a live action film . The bad looking effects just take over what could've been a great epic film . Hrothgar is the king of his Denmark land , but there are demons that are attacking him and his people . He and his soldiers are not able to defeat the demon , so they send for a hero . Thankfully a hero is on his way , he is called Beowulf , I like to call him Beobuff . He has come to save the day with his men and they do succeed in killing one of the demons . Unfortunately , the demon's mom does not take this so lightly and offers Beowulf a deal in exchange for a new son . But things take a dark turn when Hrothgar knows a little more about the woman / demon who wanted a son . Beowulf is an alright movie , seriously though , would I recommend it ? Not really , the story was wonderful and magical , but the way the film was made and the cast was not what I would've done if I created the movie . I think it would have been a better idea to use unknown actors , because we have these incredible actors who are aways a pleasure to watch on the screen , but seriously , on Beowulf , this was not their film . The CGI is way too over the top and looks very fake , I didn't enjoy the " eye candy " . If you read the poem , go ahead and check the film out , if you haven't , you might not get into it .
Oh , come on , this was in no way a horrible movie	I had been dying to see Phat Girlz when it came out on DVD , but when I saw the incredible low rating on IMDb , I was just afraid of being disappointed and feeling like I wasted my time and money . But one of my friends had the movie and we watched it today and I have to say to the IMDb users , how was this movie bottom 100 bad ? No , this had no Oscar worthy material and some of it was a bit silly , but I think that this film had a positive message . One of the most disturbing things I have seen on the IMDb reviews and boards are how this movie " promotes " obesity , when I don't see that at all , this film was just about accepting yourself and feeling good and confident in a world where being a " phat " girl is so unacceptable and makes them feel like the minority . Monique had a positive energy , at times I admit she could be over the top and annoying , but I didn't find her character to be horrible , but actually more believable . Jazmin is a big girl in a small girl's world where she can't find any hot clothing for her size and wishes to help other big girls feel beautiful and sexy . But she is ignored and criticized for her outgoing personality and her plump figure . She wins a trip to the Carrabean Islands with her thin cousin and her other plump friend . There she meets and incredibly handsome doctor who loves her figure and finds big women to be very attractive and helps her realize that maybe with a little confidence she could be on top of the world and smile with her killer fashion designs . I lost a lot of weight , I used to be a " phat " girl , so I think that's why I enjoyed the film somewhat , because I could relate . Besides that , this was just an average comedy that people are taking way too seriously . I think if you let go and just have some fun , you'll like the film , just ignore the ignorant people who are just hating this film because there are big women in it , it's just a cute romantic comedy with a positive message .
Not a bad Disney Sequel	I remember the first time I saw Lady and the Tramp , it was one of the first Disney movies to make me cry as a child . It was one of the most romantic films I ever saw , lol , well , I was a kid , so , give me a break , it's still a good love story . So , I figured to go ahead and give the sequel a look and I watched it today and over all , it's a decent sequel that's worth a look . Unfortunately , there are a lot of Disney sequels that really are not worth your while and are pretty cheesy , Lady and the Tramp 2 is typical where as the plot is always the same for every Disney sequel . They always take the plot from the first film and reverse the situation to the kids wanting whatever the parent had in the first film , but Lady and the Tramp 2 has it's moments that are just very sweet . Pidge and Tramp are living the high life with their masters and 4 kids . 3 kids are girls and they are loving the pampered life of baths , 3 meals a day in a bowl , and a healthy home to live in . But Scamp's the boy that stands out , he wants to be a junk yard dog so badly and be free an wild . Tramp doesn't want that life for him , and certainly to not end up in the pound . But Scamp goes off with a girl dog , Angel , and other junk yard dogs to prove that he's just as tough , but it's a tough world out there and he may not have the chops to survive . Lady and the Tramp II : Scamp's Adventure is definitely worth a look , it's not a waste of a sequel . Is it necessary ? No , not really , but it's all good clean fun . The animation is colorful and the songs are catchy along with a cute little story that may be predictable , but is always a safe route to go with the kids . It's a cute family movie and is a nice Disney sequel . I would recommend it if you are a fan of the original Lady and the Tramp and also for the kids , it's a good clean cut movie to watch .
Eh , it's OK	This movie reminded me so much of The Great Outdoors with John Candy and Dan Aykrod , it's insane . I felt like Steve and Eugene just were probably watching that movie and thought how funny it would be if they could do a different version with their kids from Cheaper By The Dozen . If you've seen The Great Outdoors , I think you'll end up agreeing with me . Well , the Bakers are back and they are on vacation in the woods . They meet the Mortoges ( spelling ? ) , the kids love the kids , and the wives love each other as well , but there is one problem , Eugene and Steve don't really like each other and are having a hard time getting along on parental abilities . So they challenge each other to the this picnic type of race family thing a ma jigger . But the Baker's eldest daughter Nora is expecting and that just might help these two families call all ties together . Cheaper By The Dozen 2 was kinda a lame excuse for more money on this franchise , not to mention it wasn't needed . But I think over all that it's a decent family film , but on it's own , from an adult's point of view , it wasn't my cup of tea . Hopefully , the next Steve Martin flick I watch is better , because his later films are not thrilling me .
Am I the only one who wasn't as into this movie as others ?	I have heard a lot about Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid , story and movie wise . I enjoyed The Good , The Bad , and The Ugly so much that I decided to give Western movies another shot , maybe I just didn't appreciate them more when I was young . But Butch Cassidy was pretty slow paced and doesn't even have much of a story . So why the big fuss ? Robert Redford and Paul Newman had good chemistry and I did believe in their friendship and partnership sort of speak . This movie was also beautifully shot , so there are a few points where I can say I had a positive view on the movie . But I felt like there was no story and it just wasn't really my type of movie that I could get into . I hope most of IMDb users understand , we've all been there . But if you want my opinion for those of you who don't enjoy Westerns , only stick to The Good , the Bad , and the Ugly . If you want to , give Butch Cassidy a chance , but I did warn you .
OK , now it's getting silly	Even though I wasn't a big fan of the first " Anaconda " , I figured to give the second one a chance . After all , the rules of a sequel is that the body count is always bigger . " Anacondas : The Hunt for the Blood Orchid " gave us that . The death scenes are always more elaborate and gory . " Anacondas : The Hunt for the Blood Orchid " gave us that . And always suspect everyone . . . in this case the wonderful CGI fake Anaconda gave that away . Of course there is always someone a little beyond greedy , and you want them to get it from the anaconda . Why ? But good shall always triumph over evil ! Mwa ha ha ha ha ! Ahem , sorry . I felt this was beyond unrealistic , I mean I know it was a " horror " movie , and the situations are supposed to be that way , but come on ! I would like to try to believe that there is a killer anaconda out there trying to kill these stupid people . One can only dream . A little better than the first one . But again , they could of done something more than the CGI effects . Even the actors complained in the making , so that's got to mean something .
Pretty low , Mel	You think Mel Gibson , you think great movie . Don't you dare think that for " The Patriot " . It's an O . K . movie . Nothing to get excited about . It is historicly accurate . That is what I will only give it credit for .
While pointless , it's still a fun movie	Mr . Deeds , the remake of Mr . Deeds Goes To Town , Mr . Deeds Goes To Town is an old comedy that is personally one of my favorite comedies . It's just a wonderful film that I highly recommend you watch if you get the chance . So Adam Sandler decided to take on that classic and make it into his film , which honestly isn't that bad , just in comparison , believe me then you look at it as a horrendous film . It was just one of those movies that really didn't need a remake . But Adam Sandler did bring his own bite to the film and just updated the story for the younger generation that obviously never heard of the movie . After Preston Blake freezes to death at the summit of Mount Everest with a triumphant smile on his face , a search for his heir for his successful company begins . When it is found that he has a living nephew named Longfellow Deeds who runs a pizzeria in New Hampshire , Deeds is contacted and brought to New York City by attorney & businessman Chuck Cedar . Plans are made for Deeds to sell his shares in the company to Cedar and return home $40 billion richer , but he must remain in New York for a few days as all the legal details are worked out . The story is major news , and reporter Babe Bennett , who works for a tabloid show , has a friend pretend to steal her purse in sight of Deeds , because their research indicated Deed wanted to meet a girl by saving her , the same way his father had met his mother . Deeds rescues her and she continues to go out with him under the disguise of Pam Dawson , school nurse . Though Pam initially hopes to just get a good story on the new heir , she eventually falls for the kind-hearted Deeds while realizing that all she's done is lie to him and wants to be with him . Chuck is also up to no good in wanting to take over the company from Deeds and doesn't have the best intentions . Mr . Deeds has a few funny moments , even though it was incredibly immature , I do have to admit that I got a kick out of the scene where Longfellow shows off his frostbite foot and tells the servant to hit it with the fire poker , and screams to freak him out , yeah , it's something that most little brothers would do to their older sibling , but it still got a laugh . Wynonia Rider was actually pretty good in the film , she was very adorable , but her chemistry wasn't exactly on key with Sandler , not her fault , just I wasn't feeling it too much in the film . Over all the film is worth the look if you see it on TV , but otherwise , I wouldn't recommend going out of your way to see the movie .
I'd have to say " Enough already "	I normally enjoy these type of plots for some reason . It's a guilty pleasure of mine I must admit . I do like the whole " boyfriend / girlfriend goes crazy on girlfriend / boyfriend " type of stories . But this was a little stupid than what I usually expect . See , the normal thing to do when a spouse is abusive and you fear for your child's life is to call the police . Not run away from your problems . If you knew that your husband was a psychopath and a stalker , would you just run ? Jennifer Lopez's acting isn't bad in the film . I've never really thought she was a great actress to begin with . She is pretty convincing in the film though . The movie isn't bad , but the plot was just unrealistic .
Weak , there is no point to it	The X-Files , one of the most famous television shows that ended in 2002 , had a movie in 2000 , just came out with a sequel . To be honest , I was wondering why , I know that there are still fans that are shaking to see their favorite agents back , but the story was weak and felt like another episode , just an extended one . Now I did enjoy The X-Files series , I also did like the first X-Files film , so I felt like maybe this was going to be big and have an exciting story , but instead we have just another episode that is trying to have the Saw edge and gross people out . We also have some added characters that are just weak , for example Xzibit as a one dimensional character who is just flat and typical , also , it's Xzibit , I don't know what casting director was thinking " he's perfect " , no offense to this guy , but he should stick to his day job . David and Gillain are also off track and don't have the same chemistry as they did in the series . Fox Mulder has been requested back by the FBI to help them with a case of missing female FBI agents , he meets a priest / pedophile / psychic who is also helping the FBI out with the case . Dana Scully has decided to stay with her current career as a doctor who is struggling to save a little boy's brain disease . But Fox wants her back in work with him and together they discover the darker world that is happening with these missing FBI agents and the Russian black market . The X Files : I Want to Believe is over all not a bad movie by any means , but it's at this point that it seems like the writers were not even trying . Also with David and Gillain , I like to call this movie The X Files : I Want a Paycheck , because they just didn't put their hearts into this and you can tell very much , I thought David hated the series , you think he would have been more stubborn or at least would have read the script first before the paycheck . As far as for the fans , I'd recommend that you just do the matinée , it's not a full price ticket movie , it's just an extended episode , the ending is anti-climatic and this was just pointless .
Not my favorite Steve Martin flick	Like I said , I'm getting into the Steve Martin flicks , and since my mom has all of his films , I decided my next film journey to be for comedy and see what the hype is that is Steve Martin . I loved his films like : Bringing Down the House , Bowfinger , and Roxanne . They had great humor and a touching story that anyone could fall in love with . L . A . Story was next on my list , and while it is a cute movie , I felt that it was a little too cheesy and not up to par with Steve Martin's humor , or at least not the kind of humor that I know he can perform . Harris , played by Martin , is a weatherman in L . A . , he's in a pretty dysfunctional relationship with a very fake and shallow woman . But when he pulls over to fix his car on the road , an electronic road sign tells him the way to find his true love leading him to Sarah Jessica Parker , but she's a bit of a ditz . But the sign eventually points him to the lovely Sara , a British and intelligent woman , but she is taken . It's a matter of seeing if the sign is right and is this the woman of his dreams ? L . A . Story is a cute little romantic story that deserves a look , but like I said , I just didn't get into it . I guess I was just expecting something more since it's a Steve Martin flick , but it's all good . I wouldn't say no to recommending this , because you might enjoy it . But just don't expect the humor from Bowfinger or Bringing Down the House or The Jerk or . . . well , you get the idea .
Come on , it wasn't that bad .	I was expecting a complete and total disaster of a film when I saw the trailer for " Little Man " , not to mention that it's on the bottom 100 on IMDb , and those ratings are usually pretty accurate . But I liked " White Chicks " , I proudly admit , and I like the Waynes brothers , wither you want to admit it or not , they give you a few good laughs in most of their films . So , I figured to just try to give Little Man a chance , what harm could it do ? Honestly , it wasn't that bad , I actually had a decent time watching this . Calvin is a two foot criminal on the run with a hundred thousand dollar diamond and while running from the cops , puts it in a lady's purse . Cal and his partner follow the couple and since Calvin is so little and the couple , Darryl and Venessa , wants a baby , Cal dresses up as one and the couple takes him in . Thinking it will be for a short while , Cal does this hoping to get the diamond and run , but it won't be easy since Darryl is dedicated to being a good dad . Like I said , I was expecting something really bad , but I had a couple laughs during the film . I honestly don't understand what people have against the Waynes brothers , while Little Man is in no way Oscar material , it was a silly comedy with a few light hearted laughs .
A surprise , but still that's never saying too much	I was never interested in seeing Deuce Bigalow : Male Gigolo , but one of my friends said that it was a very funny movie , so I figured I would give it a shot and I rented it . I watched it yesterday and over all I thought it was alright . To be honest I never really was a big fan of Rob Schneider anyways , but he was actually pretty likable in Deuce Bigalow . Though it didn't really make me laugh , Duece Bigalow is a likable romantic comedy that is a spoof off of American Gigolo . At times the humor is a bit immature and typical , but there are a couple of laughs here and there . Duece Bigalow is a man who takes very good care of fishes . One day he comes across a man , Antoine , who just seems to get all the babes and has a fabulous house . He finds out the way he gets this living is from taking money from pleasuring these women , he's a man whore . When he has to go away for 3 weeks , he asks Duece to look over the house , Duece destroys the house and needs 6 thousand dollars fast , and of course how he is he gonna get it ? That's right , he shall become the ultimate man whore and ends up finding the love of his life . Over all Duece Bigalow : Male Gigolo is a likable movie , I'm not sure if I would watch it again , but it is worth a look . The acting is just what you would expect , it's average , but the story is pretty funny . The things that made me laugh mostly were when Duece is getting all the " messed up " female john's and just his reaction was pretty funny . So I would say that you could give this movie a look if you're in the mood , but for me , it's a one time watch .
Entertaining , but oh-so-cheesy and predictable	Fantastic Four : Rise of the Silver Surfer , was supposed to be one of the big summer events , but over all didn't make it as huge of an impact as expected , but I was hearing pretty good things from my friends who saw it . But I wanted to wait for the rental since I really wasn't into the first one , the first one just was so silly and didn't keep my attention . I have to say that Fantastic Four : Rise of the Silver Surfer was definitely better than I expected and so much better than the original Fantastic Four , but I think I will probably skip out on the next sequel , this just isn't my type of super hero story . But that's the way Marvel has always been , very cheesy and silly , but the hero's always save the day . I think also I'm having a problem since Jessica Alba is getting nothing but the " hot factor " publicity lately , so I can't help but be sarcastic during her scenes where it seems like she really can't act , no offense to her . But Fantastic Four : Rise of the Silver Surfer is just glitzy effects with a fun story . The fantastic four are back and Sue and Reed are about to get married , but that is quickly interrupted when a planet eating rock is about to destroy their world . The Silver Surfer is destroying country by country and when they get ahold of him they know his surfing board is the source of his power and if put into the wrong hands , well , things could just get so much worse . But the fantastic four ban together to save the world once again . Fantastic Four : Rise of the Silver Surfer is definite entertainment , a lot of special effects and a decent story , but the actors are still not that great in my opinion . I feel actually so bad because I know there are a lot of comic book fans who love this kind of story and grew up with the fantastic four , but I guess I should just stick to Batman , I prefer the darker stuff , for super hero's I always thought that yeah , they should have some cheesiness to the story , but not when it takes over the whole film , you know ? But I would recommend if you're just looking for a fun little action film , it is major eye candy , I'm talking mostly about Jessica Alba though , lol , just kidding .
To sum it up , it's the female version of " Meet the Parents "	OK , I have to admit , I had major major major major doubts about watching " Monster In Law " . I mean , who really enjoys Jennifer Lopez's acting ? And Jane Fonda coming back ? Not really needed ; Hollywood wasn't dying without her . Over all , I am going to admit that actually " Monster In Law " isn't that bad , but then again , that isn't saying too much . We have the typical cliché's of a romantic comedy . Let's start with Jennifer Lopez's character , Charlie . She's a typical artist who is loved by all , an artistic woman , a gay man , and a semi-attractive doctor who happens to have an over possessive mother . She is an artist / little league coach / pharmacist / dog walker , to sum it up a temp . She's just so darn cute and charming and lovable and intelligent and funny and very unrealistic that a woman like that would be single very long . : / Her boyfriend , Kevin , is your typical semi-attractive doctor who is clueless to his mother not liking any of his girlfriends . He is usually in the shadows and you can tell he's not into his part because half the time you don't even notice him really . He just didn't win my vote . Jane Fonda , Viola , the mother , the over possessive mother , the old hag who had her bra burning days and crazy anti-war moments , and she's here . Trying to look young when you can tell she's trying too hard . But performance wise , she did alright . She was the only thing that really carried this movie to keep me going . She kept my interest and it seemed like she was the only one who really got into the part . The ending and story in all is just too cliché . I mean over all , this wasn't bad , but it's living up to it's 5 . 1 on IMDb . I would recommend it for romantic comedy lovers , but that's pretty much it . I'm not going to say anything more because , I'm just at a 50 % split of wither I liked it or not .
Actually , I thought this one was funnier than the first	My friends and I started watching Big Mama's House 2 a couple months ago , but we never got to finish , and in some ways I was glad because I usually like to see the first film before I see the sequel . Most times you feel like you have missed out on so much and you might not understand the humor . So I rented Big Mama's House and was sorely disappointed , I was really nervous and was thinking that maybe I didn't want to see the second one . But my friend insisted that I see it and to give it a shot . Malcom is back and this time he's a safety teacher who has felt like he's lost his edge , but he has made a promise to his wife since she is pregnant . But when he finds out there is an investigation on a top secret defense CD being released to some very bad men , he goes undercover as Big Mama to be the man who has the CD and his family . He lies to his wife and work and the family he is caring for , but ends up saving the day for everyone . I have to say that I honestly laughed a lot more in the second Big Mama's House more than the first one . This one seemed just more light hearted and it was fun , despite it being predictable , I think more should give this movie a better chance , because in my opinion this was better and well thought out more than the first .
Stereotypical and silly , but still in all good fun	Oh , come on , people , was it really that irritating to you ? Now , I admit , in no way is this movie Oscar material or the best movie of 2001 , but learn to have a little fun . Are you really telling me that you couldn't laugh at the models ? They took the movie and made it into a fun ditzy comedy . Basically , it's incredibly predictable , but Freddie Prinze , Jr . is a " fashion " business man who falls for Monica and she does as well . But as she states that she has bad judgment of men , there is a terrible thing she witnesses in an apartment with her " model " roommates and see him commit a murder ! Together they investigate to find out if she is going to have a murderer boyfriend or live happily ever after , you make the guess .
It's an ok teen comedy	As far as teen comedies go , this is just like the rest . Friendship always wins . There is the sexy one , the cute funny one , and the smart one . Pretty predictable . There are some good laughs , especially with the whole boy band thing . And the ending has a few good jokes as well . The music is alright , it's nothing to get excited over to let you know . I think the guys will definatly enjoy seeing the sexy girls though . This is more of a pre teen movie as well . I would say , if you have nothing better to do , it's ok to watch . I think Tara Reid would be my only excuse . Strange role she picked , but she's a lot of fun to watch . This was too cheesey for my taste . Don't expect too much from this teen flick .
Yeah , it's stupid , but I was looking for a good laugh	I know that the Leprechaun is a lame villain , but I like him . He's funny and actually somewhat scary , you have to admit that he's scarier than Chucky . While this has the most racial stereotypes , it's still a very funny movie to watch . You have got to admit that it was hilarious when the leprechaun picks up Watson's phone and starts to have a little " chat " with his girlfriend . I know it was cheesy and predictable , but this was still good for laughs . Also , I think this was the bloodiest Leprechaun movie out of the 6 , so a little gore is cool for horror fans . So , for a good laugh and just a fun time with the Leprechaun , give it a chance .
Such good actors , such a typical thriller	My mom and I have been on a Johnny Depp trip , so the next film on our list was Nick of Time . I watched it the other day and I have to say that I was so excited throughout the film , not to mention , it also stars one of the coolest actors ever , Chrisopher Walken ! But the ending just left me with tons and tons of questions , my mom was just as puzzled . I just thought that while it's a good movie , it just lacked the rest of the story . It forgot to mention what happened to the characters and why they had motives . Also , I didn't like the way they developed Depp's character , why should I care about him so much ? Just because he has a daughter doesn't mean he's a good person that I have to love or root for . Thank goodness they picked a likable actor though , other wise the story would have never worked . Gene Watson is walking with his daughter , we learn that his soon to be ex-wife died , but his day is about to get a thousand times worse when he is taken by who appears to be a cop . Mr . Smith , the cop , tells him that he has to kill a woman or he and his partner will kill his daughter . Lucky for Gene , the woman he's supposed to kill is the governor ! Gene does whatever he can to get out of the situation , but its going to be more difficult when he finds out that almost everyone is involved in this attempt to assassinate . Nick of Time is over all a decent thriller , but it didn't necessarily excite me , I was a bit disappointed with the way they " developed " the characters and how it ended . It just left me with an empty feeling and a lot of questions . I love Christopher and Johnny so much and I really don't want to dislike this movie , but sometimes I guess the actors just get stuck with a bad director . Just the story needs some work , I wouldn't really recommend the movie though , it's just alright , I probably won't see it again though .
Wanted Dead or Alive	Recently my boyfriend has been trying to stump me with movies , since I've seen so many , he wanted to know there was at least one movie that I'd never seen but he did . He finally got me with one : Harley Davidson and the Marlboro Man . I had never heard about it , but he told me that Mickey Rourke was in it ; I got excited because I loved Mickey in 9 Weeks and was hoping for the same kind of performance in Harley Davidson and the Marlboro Man . Now the funny thing is that I made my boyfriend watch 9 Weeks with the smooth operator Mickey and I watched Harley Davidson and the Marlboro Man scary motorcycle Mickey . But onto the movie and wither it was good or not . Now actually , Harley Davidson and the Marlboro Man wasn't at all a bad movie , it's better than most I would say . It's actually a cool action movie and has a decent story despite it's unusual title . Harley Davidson and Marlboro are buddies way back , together they ride their motorcycles on a care free life . But when they go back to the bar that they love so much , they find out that a bank is about to replace it unless the owner , Jimmy , comes up with two and a half million dollars to cover the cost . Harley and Marlboro decide to rob the very bank that is taking the bar away with some of their friends , they think they got away with it when they do , but it turns out that the truck they stole that they thought had the money has drugs instead . So they make a deal with the evil guy from the bank and get the money for the drugs ; they just did one thing wrong , they trust the evil super duper bad guy too well . Harley Davidson and the Marlboro Man is good cheesy fun that was kinda fun to watch , sometimes you need the typical and predictable action movie that just has the great exciting scenes to make you at least be entertained . Both Mickey and Jon seemed to have a lot of fun together and I would say clicked very well . I loved how Marlboro was trying to teach Harley how to shoot his gun , and well , it comes in handy at the end to actually make for some dark comedy jokes , but I'm not going to tell you what happens . I think I would recommend Harley Davidson and the Marlboro Man for those who just want entertainment , it's a fun action movie .
There is nothing scarier than a rapping leprechaun !	Wow , my friends just critcized me for renting Leprechaun in the Hood . But come on , I wanted a good laugh mixed in with a few scares . I mean , despite it's non-promising Oscar material screen play , come on , this was so much fun to watch . The great thing about it , was that it didn't take itself so seriously . I'll admit it , I love the Leprechaun movies . I mean , they're so bad that they're good . They have a great amount of laughs and so does this one . I know I'm going to miss Leprechaun in Space , unfortunately I can't find it , but I'll stick with the Hood . As silly as it sounds , the plot is about these wanna be rappers who take a flute from Ice-T who stole it from the Leprechaun . The flute has magical powers to make them famous , so not only is Ice-T trying to get it back , but so is the leprechaun . With a scary scene of Warwick rapping , this was a fun movie to watch .
Makes you want to go the distance and hit someone , even if it is 16 years later	Well , it's better than the 5th Rocky film , but I wasn't too impressed with Rocky Balboa . I was so excited to see Rocky back in the ring , even if Sylvester Stallone is 1600 years old , I'd see Rocky XX ! Well , my boyfriend and I were so excited and it was so great to be in that audience last night , the audience was cheering before the movie even started ! I never saw that before ! People were screaming out the famous lines of the first Rocky and having fun pretending to be Sylvester Stalone , how could anyone not be pumped up to see this film ? Well , I'm going to explain the sadness that was the end in just a moment . Adrien has unfortunately passed away , their son , Robert , has grown up trying to separate himself from his famous father , and Rocky has opened up a restaurant to pass time and make some money since he doesn't box any more . But there is a new boxing heavy weight champion , Dixen , who doesn't have much pazazz like Apollo Creed , Mr . T , or Ivan Drago , instead he's kind of a gangsta of some sort . Well , everyone is thinking old school vs . new school and now Rocky must face Dixon in a not so triumphant fight that gets you pumped up and go to the gym after the movie is over . Now , normally some movies get an applause after it's done , and you'd think with this movie there would have been a standing ovation , but instead two people started clapping and one person screamed " What the hell was that ! ? " and someone screamed at the two people " Man , stop your clapping ! Let's go home ! " , and my boyfriend and I looked at each other and said " That's it ? " . The training sequence didn't get us pumped up and excited like the others did and we didn't have the typical happy Rocky ending , what the heck ? ! Rocky , I demand a rematch !
Average	When I was at Wal Mart a few weeks ago , I saw a DVD that had three movies in it for 10 bucks , Blue Crush happened to be one of them , so I figured to go ahead and see the film , I mean , decent price , the movie might be worth a look . So I watched Blue Crush last night and I have to say that when I remembered seeing the trailer for Blue Crush when it first came out and it looked like the most lame thing ever , I was 17 years old at the time , so watching this now , it was better than what I expected . But still , it was nothing special , it was like one of those movies that you see once , and you're happy with seeing it that one time . It has fun sports , hot actors ( that really can't act ) , and a decent story that's worth a look , even if it is a little too much of a chick flick at times . Anne Marie is a young girl in Hawaii who lives with two other friends and her little sister . Her mother ran away and left her with all the responsibilities of being an adult . Anne Marie is also a competitive surfer and kicks butt on the waves , so much so , that her room mate , Eden , wants her to compete in the pipe line contest , which is extremely dangerous and Anne Marie has a fear off since she almost died from a wipe out when she was a little girl . A hot tourist , Matt , distracts her and has a steamy affair with him , she forgets who she is and has to get back on track in order for her dreams to come true . Blue Crush is a cute movie and has an uplifting and positive message to go the distance and make your dreams come true . Sounds cheesy , but I think young girls need more movies like Blue Crush , it's cool for the tween crowd . As an adult , like I said , it's average , but it was a decent film . There's nothing terribly wrong with the film , there are a few unbelievable things and it's a little predictable , the acting is alright , but it's all good , it's just a cute film . Blue Crush is worth a look if you're looking for a sport type of film , but for me , that's all that I'm going to have of the film .
One thing I can definitely say for sure is that I have never seen a movie like this before	I grabbed Yes off the shelf at Hollywood Video because I am a fan of Joan Allen and Sam Neil . Both are terrific actors and I was on my phone and told my friend what I had just picked up and she told me to rent this movie and that it was very good . She's a huge fan of independent movies , and she said this was one of the best . This movie is basically a gigantic poem . And to be honest , this wasn't really my movie . I'm just not an independent movie fan . While the movie is extremely interesting and done pretty well . It was very depressing in some ways . Especially when He breaks things off with She and He explains why . I think everyone could understand his heart break . Especially after the attacks , everything he said was true . So , if you are a poem lover or an independent film lover , I'd recommend it . But if you are just a regular film lover , you might want to stay away from it .
LOL , I just couldn't resist	My generation , we had the Spice Girls , you know how they were so hated , they were too perky , too fake , too sexy , too advertised , had everything they wanted , the list goes on and on , but 12 year old girls ( like I was at the time ) absolutely adored them . We also had a movie called Spice World which again got a ton of hate , while the movie was terrible , it was the new generations " Gimme Shelter " or even " Yellow Submarine " , now most would argue with me because the music was better back in the day , hey , guess what ? Their parents thought the same thing , now we have Hannah Montana / Miley Cyrus : Best of Both Worlds Concert Tour , the whole point of my ramble is , this is the new Spice World , little girls look up to Hannah Montana , as silly as it is , we have all been through the same thing generation after generation . We always get into the same argument , notice a pattern here ? It's rather scary when you think it over . Hannah Montana / Miley Cyrus : Best of Both Worlds Concert Tour takes you back stage with Miley Cyrus , her big preparation for her big concert . She talks with family and friends , talks a little bit about her character / alter ego Hannah Montana and what a journey it's been . We find out from her screaming fans why she is so wonderful , what people would go through to get those tickets for her concert . There is also a special performance from The Jonas Brothers , Miley goes on as Hannah and then later on performs as herself . Hannah Montana / Miley Cyrus : Best of Both Worlds Concert Tour honestly is good for the 12 year old's , in my opinion , the concert was pretty cool to watch . I watched this with my 10 year old cousin and I just saw how her eyes lite up as she sang to the songs , so you know what ? I think this was nice for the little one's , it's a Disney Movie , it's Hannah Montana , so I really don't know what people were expecting . It's also very short , so I wasn't tortured with it or anything , like I said , we go through this every generation , Hannah Montana / Miley Cyrus : Best of Both Worlds Concert Tour is just the new concert / artist biography for the little girls who need an idol to look up too .
Good story , but it looses it's grip on the audience after the first hour	I couldn't tell you how excited I was to see The Strangers , from the moment I saw the trailer , I just knew this movie was a must see . Not in a long time has a trailer scared me so much , I just couldn't wait to see this movie . So I saw it tonite , opening night , I have to say that I'm a little disappointed with this movie . While it has some strong points , some very disturbing and creepy moments , the movie hits some classic cliché's that you've seen before as well as the characters you're just screaming at and calling idiots while in the audience . Now we have two good actors , Scott Speedman and Liv Tyler , but their characters lacked any good development and not to mention , if you're alone in your house and someone's making noise outside , do you walk towards the noise ? ! I'm sorry , just had to get that out , it just frustrated me in the classic cliché ' , let's split up and not give each other equal weapons . Kristen and James are a couple who have gone back to their father's place to celebrate the engagement that they were supposed to have , but Kristen said no . James feeling hurt goes out to get cigarettes for Kristen , Kristen hears some strange noises throughout the house , then discovers there is a man with a mask who is just making all sorts of bangs , breaking into the house , and destroying her phone . James comes back , they then discover there is three of these psycho's and must try to survive the night of terror that awaits them . The main problem with the movie is the major cliché's that come with it : the splitting up , the moving towards the noises , not to mention if these killers are human how is it that they appear in one scene then we cut back again to them and they're gone ? I was just also disappointed with the dialog that did exist , " because you were home " ? Are you serious ? There were some predictable moments , and the one thing that majorly made me angry , the killers took their very very very sweet time in establishing that they were any harm to these people , I mean other than with the car scene and making noises , I didn't take most of their presence seriously , I was like " are they going to do anything this time ? " . The Strangers is a disappointment , I would recommend you wait for the rental and watch it in the dark at home , it'd probably be scarier that way .
It has it's moments , but for the most part it's annoying	When I was a kid , I enjoyed this movie . I was 6 , so automatically it was aimed at my age group . I thought that this was possibly the best movie ever . Now it just got really annoying . I sometimes wonder how adult actors can do this . I guess if you are desperate in looking for a career . SPOILERS ! ! ! Basically , the movie is about a girl named Lizzie . When she's a little girl she has an imaginary friend named " Drop Dead Fred " . He is supposedly real . Just only she can see him . He gets her into a lot of trouble . Her mom takes away the box that awakens him . Lizzie grows up . Her mom is running her life . Her fiancée leaves her . Her life is going down the drain . She finds the box and opens it up to release Fred once again . He decides to " help " her out with her life . It just goes on and on with the little kid jokes . It's an OK film .
Eh , it's all good	I don't know why , but I guess I was just desperate for a movie last night , so I went searching through my mom's collection and found Caveman . I noticed some unknown celebs like Dennis Quaid and Shelly Long with always famous beatle Ringo Starr . Well , I figured that I'd give this movie a shot , it didn't seem so bad . After watching this I have one thing to say to the writers : You are some sick mofo's ! Anywho , this was a harmless fun slap stick that I'm sure most could get a little laugh out of . What seems like a slight parody of Quest for Fire , Atoulk is a caveman who has a thing for his leader's wife , Lana , but she doesn't even notice him . When Atoulk is banished from the tribe , he and his friend Lan start a new tribe of dimwits who believe that Atoulk is the strongest of all . After a few failed attempts , he proves to save the day and falls for another cave lady . Well , Caveman is silly , but it's all in good fun , I don't think the makers of the film meant any harm to film , just looking for a good slap stick . Like I said , it's nothing special , but you might get a couple little laughs here and there . I'd rather stick to Encino Man though when it comes to comedic caveman movies , you know ?
Typical , but still funny	When I first saw the trailer to What Happens in Vegas . . . , I thought it did look so predictable , but it had some really funny moments in the trailer , so I still wanted to see it . The only sad part , we have Cameron Diaz ( who looks like a really good looking aging woman ) and Ashton Kutcher ( who still looks and acts like he's 12 years old ) , so we have two obnoxious actors that could have made a very disastrous film . But I saw What Happens in Vegas . . . yesterday and even though it was very predictable and stupid , it still had some very funny moments . I mean , Cameron and Ashton play two of the most unlikeable characters in movie history , who just bicker back and forth . The characters who win you over in the film are Rob Corddry and Lake Bell , who's fighting is actually very funny . But Aston and Cameron had some really good moments too . Joy just got dumped by her boyfriend in front of her friends , Jack just got fired by his own father , so what's next for them ? VEGAS ! They happen to meet when their rooms get mixed up and end up drinking together , having a ball in Vegas , and end up accidentally marrying each other . When they come too , they realize it was a mistake , but start bickering , Joy leaves a quarter at her slot machine and Jack puts it in and wins 3 million dollars ! But when it comes to the annulment , for some strange and unbelievable reason , the judge sentences them to 6 months hard marriage and freezes the money . So these two who have nothing in common battle it out , until of course they fall for each other . What Happens in Vegas . . . is silly and predictable , but I do think the rating her on IMDb is a little harsh . I completely side with people who hate Cameron and Ashton , but their battle scenes together are pretty funny . Just I've seen so many worse films , this was just a fun romantic comedy to lighten the spirit of Iron Man and Speed Racer , not to mention the more action packed movies for the summer . So I'd say it's worth the look , but more of a rental vs . a high priced ticket , but just have fun , I think you'll get more than a few laughs .
Just a fun family film that isn't special but worth a watch	I don't know why , but I just wanted to pick up this copy when I ran across it at the video store and figured that I have seen the first one , why not see the second one ? The first Dr . Dolittle is a pretty cute film that I enjoyed , so the second I guess wasn't a problem renting . Especially since I am an Eddie Murphy fan . Over all , I'd say that Dr . Dolittle 2 is an enjoyable family film that is a little bit judged too harshly on IMDb , it is just a fun movie . The family is now having trouble coping with Dr . Dolittle's animal psychic abilities , but he has very little time to save a forest that is about to be torn down and a bear , Archie , from going back to the circus . While he's trying to save these animals , the family misses him and wants to spend time , but it's hard when he has so much to do and so little time for these animals . There are some little funny and genuine moments that I think makes this a fun family film . There were some touching , like where Dolittle and his daughter find out that they have something very special in common and a certain terminator cameo that will get you laughing . So , I'd recommend for the family afternoon , but otherwise , be nice , it's a cute movie .
It's cute	This movie is a legend in my neighborhood . Because one of the kids from my old school in my grade was one of the bullies . So , my classroom had to watch this . We were all wondering what he had been up too . This is the most exciting thing ever to happened in my neighborhood . Sad , isn't it ? The movie " The Little Rascals " is adorable . But it lacks somewhere . The kids are all brats . I don't think I was even able to really enjoy the cameos . But this is more of a kid's film . Not a movie you'd watch as a grown up . But congats to Zac , he made it . . . somewhat . And the movie is enjoyable if you are 7 . Otherwise , you'd might want to skip it .
Maybe my expectations were just a little too high	30 Days of Night was one of the horror films I was looking forward to most this year . I mean from the moment I saw the trailer early spring , I was looking up on IMDb when the release date was , it was agony knowing that I had to wait until October . Finally , last night , opening night , it was storming in my city , so it was like the most perfect time to go see this movie . So my friend and I saw this last night and the theater was packed , when the movie ended , there was only one person who started to clap , but then stopped immediately when he saw that there was no one else clapping . While my friend liked this movie , I wasn't too thrilled . It didn't seem like a real vampire film , more like Night of the Living Dead or 28 Days Later , where this group is just hiding from the vampires . Not to mention that things were just not well explained , but maybe I need to read the book to get it , because this movie failed to explain certain situations . Eben is the sheriff of the northern most town in the U . S . , also it is night for 30 days , the roads shut down and some of the population leaves and some stays . Things go extremely bad though when a gang of vampires decides that this is the perfect town to move to . They pretty much get most of the townspeople , except for Eben , his ex-wife , Stella , his little brother , Jake , and a couple more of their friends . Since the vamps have cut the power and had someone burn all the cell phones , it's impossible for the gang to escape , but they are going to try to make it for the month . But that's going to be tough when the vamps spoiled their dinner the first day and now need more happy meals on foot . The plot was incredibly good and original , I was so thrilled that this seemed to be like a real vampire movie . But unfortunately there were things that were just not well explained . Now like how the vampires seemed to want to be known in this world , but then later on they try to " hide " what they did by burning the town , it didn't make much sense . Then how did The Stranger fit into this whole mess ? Was he a potential vampire ? Was he promised to live if he did these things for the vamps or promised to be turned into a vampire ? Then also why did Josh Hartnett become a vampire ? I know it was to gain super strength , but still , it seemed kinda silly for him to jump so quickly . Not to mention the love story between him and Stella didn't have good enough chemistry to pay attention too . I feel bad bashing this film because I so badly wanted to like it , but it just didn't pull through for me .
Actually not bad , but the movie is a little hypocritical	So I had the opportunity to see The Women , even though I'm not a huge fan of chick flicks , this did look a little interesting . I admit , I haven't seen the original , but I am a little curious , because from what I was seeing , this seemed like an ultra updated version that might have chopped up the original , maybe that's why there are so many harsh reviews . But just seeing this movie , it wasn't as bad as I was expecting , it's so rare we have the movies with an ALL WOMEN cast , I mean literally , no men , not even a man's voice is used in this movie , it's always put down by the guys because it's automatically going to be a " bad chick flick " . But we do have a strong cast , although , I still have my doubts about Meg Ryan , not sure why she's still in movies , no offense to her , just I don't see her as a strong leading actress any more . But the story works and makes it a nice little watch for a group of friends looking for a movie . Mary seems to have it all , a rich husband , a daughter , and 3 loving friends who would do anything for her . But the bad news is her daughter and her do not get along at all , her daughter even asks for advice from her best friend , Sylvia . Then from a manicurist's mouth , she hears that her husband is cheating on her with the hot little number in perfumes , she tells her mother , her mom says to not tell her husband , make him grateful for her , the plan actually works . Mary goes home happy and relieved that her husband wants her back so badly , but then her friends tell her to get angry , she does and ends up separating with husband only to find out about herself before it's too late . The only thing I really didn't like about this film is that it has a slight message in the middle of it where it's saying how magazines are hypocritical of women today , that on the cover there's a hot young air brushed actress and on the inside it says to love yourself just the way you are , then we have 4 older but extremely attractive actresses who have in no right what so ever to complain about their looks . Meg Ryan doesn't look a day over 30 , and I'm supposed to think yeah , I feel bad for her , it's understandable that her husband would see that she's slipping in the looks department , when it's the complete opposite . That's why I'm giving this movie a 5 , it's enjoyable , but the message is just hypocritical . For a few chuckles , it's worth the watch , not a horrible movie , but I think I'm going to check out the original .
I'm a Cubs fan , so what am I supposed to say ? ; )	OK , I know it was a kid's movie , but couldn't they have picked another team to be the villains of the movie ? LOL , OK , but other than that I watched Everyone's Hero last night , wasn't too sure what it was about before I watched it , and I checked out the rating on IMDb , 5 . 4 isn't that good for an animated film that usually gets 6 . 0 or above . But I can understand why , Everyone's Hero didn't really blow me away or got me excited . I'm not basing this on the fact that I'm a Cubs fan , just the story was alright , it's perfect for a kid's movie , it's just a good clean cut story , but for adults , it doesn't really give anything for them to enjoy it with their kids . But while this movie was probably aimed for the kids , it seemed like the writer was maybe expecting like another Shrek or The Incredables , where the whole family could enjoy it , but it ended up being just a kid's flick . Yankee Irving is a young boy who isn't that good at baseball , but he has big dreams to play as a New York Yankee . It's 1932 , his hero is Babe Ruth , and Babe Ruth has a lucky bat , Darlin ' , but Darlin ' is taken by the Cub's pitcher , Lefty , to win the World Series . Yankee's dad is fired from Yankee Stadium , he's the janitor , so it was his job to make sure that everything was secure . Yankee finds a ball that can talk to only him ; together they go to look for the bat , they find it , but want to take it to Chicago to give it to Babe Ruth himself . But Yankee has to make sure to keep it away from Lefty and the Cubs manager . Everyone's Hero isn't a bad movie by any means , it's just a kid's movie , I guess I was expecting more . Not to mention the Cubs bashing was hurtful , sorry , I'm from Chicago , if you're a Cubs fan , you can definitely relate on this subject , you must be faithful to them , LOL . OK , back to the movie , the movie is cute and has a charming story , but it wasn't anything that stood out for me . I could understand the 5 . 4 rating , I'm sorry to the writers and cast , but Everyone's Hero is just a kid's movie , nothing more .
It has some cute and funny moments , but it could have been more	I remember wanting to see this in the theater when it was first released , it seemed like a guaranteed hit . But unfortunately , I never got the opportunity to see it , when I saw that it was available for rent , I didn't hesitate , I also never looked at the IMDb rating , so I thought that this would have been a fun family movie that had a few good laughs . OK , I admit this really wasn't what I expected , it was kinda lame , but I think a 3 . 0 is a little too harsh . This wasn't the most original computer animated film , but it had a few good laughs here and there . It's just a fun and wacky family film that I think some people might get a kick out of . We all know how fairy tales go , the happily ever after ending , but did you ever wonder if there was some sort of monitoring going on to make sure that everyone had a happy story ? Well , that's what this story is about , only Cinderella has another man in her life that wants her heart , a slave , Rick , who wants a happy ending of his own . But when Cinderella's step mom finds out about the monitoring , she takes over and wants the villains for once to win the day . Happily N'ever After is a silly film , but it was all in good fun , you have got to admit that the prince character was pretty funny , when he was admitting all his failures and started crying . There were some fun moments also , I think people were a little too harsh on the film , just give it a look for yourself , it's not unique , but it's just a fun little animated film that I think just got over looked .
Sweet - N - Offensive	Well , um , I'm not sure what to say about " The Nutty Professor " . I have heard a few parodies on this movie and some have said this is a decent comedy . But for the most part , this movie broke my heart because I used to be over weight and recently dropped all the pounds , so I felt for Sherman . But I felt that the movie really over did it on the fat jokes because I know some people that exercise and do whatever they can to loose weight and it's almost impossible . So I felt that in some ways this movie was cruel and unrealistic . But it had a very sweet side and it had it's occasional jokes that could get a little laugh . So , I'd recommend over all , but then again , if you are very touchy on weight jokes , you might want to skip .
Yes , for there would be another sequel to well . . . you get the idea	6 out of the 10 sequels I have completed . Jason Lives . Catchy title . You always know how they say in the trailer " You thought the terror was over . You thought that he was dead . Yadda , yadda , yadda " . I admit , I love predictable horror flicks sometimes . This wasn't true to the Friday the 13th experience . There was no nudity ! How can you have a Jason movie without nudity ? ! Not to sound weird , but it is kind of tradition with these films . Over all , Jason Lives isn't a bad installment to the series . I guess I'm off to rent the 7th . I wonder if this one Jason learns how to cook . Maybe he'll give swimming lessons . . . never mind .
Actually not as bad as I expected , but it defeats he whole purpose of the first classic thriller	I don't know why , but when I was shopping for DVD's at Best Buy I found the triple feature for all the Psycho sequels , it was ten dollars , so I figured what the heck ? So I bought it and I watched Psycho 2 last night , it actually was not as bad as I expected . It was an interesting plot and made the story work , I'm not going to say that it was un-necessary , yeah , Psycho did not need a sequel , but it wasn't a bad movie to watch . My only problem with the film , the blood , Hitchcock did something that made the first film scary , he left things to the imagination , the mind's power and thought is more powerful than seeing something and jumping so quickly to conclusion . Psycho 2 shows a lot more blood and gore . But Anthony Perkins performs well and makes Psycho 2 worth the watch . Norman Bates is back in business , he is released from the mental institution , but when Lila Loomis finds out about this , she freaks out and sends her daughter , Mary into undercover duty to try to get Norman back where he belongs . But something is odd , Norman seems actually like he could have a normal life , just everyone is playing tricks on him to where he's loosing his mind once again , or is he ? Mary tries to keep a cool Norman so she's not the next Marian Craine . Psycho 2 is over all a decent sequel , I wouldn't mind watching it again actually . The story keeps your attention and there are some chilling moments . It was a little predictable I think , I had a feeling with Mary , that her story wouldn't end so well , but it's all good , you'll have to see what I mean . Psycho 2 is worth the watch if you loved the first Psycho , just like I said , I think they did mess up on showing too much blood and gore , Hitchcock got it right by leaving it to the imagination .
Sadly disappointing	I do have a question , what ever happened to the slow walking lame Egyptian mummies ? I mean , as silly as they are , they're still entertaining . Now we have The Mummy : Tomb of the Dragon Emperor , I loved The Mummy , The Mummy Returns , it was watchable , but this one was just an excuse to make some quick cash . I was actually looking forward to seeing this movie , I got the opportunity to see it today , I was excited , but unfortunately , we now have Chinese mummies that can do anything that will fit into the CGI budget . Another disappointment was the recasting of Evelyn , I know Rachel Weisz turned this script down , but she was seriously needed , Maria Bella , who is a decent actress , actually made Evie a very flat character and not as enjoyable . Then not only that , but we have Brendan and Maria who do look incredibly good for their age , they have a 20 year old son in the movie ? This story was a waste of time and money . The Emperor of China wanted to rule the entire world , but when a Chinese witch curses him and his army , he is put to sleep for thousands of years . Rick and Evie are now retired and have lost the spark in their relationship , but when they are asked to go to Shanghai to deliver a small little ball , they bump into their son who has discovered the Emperor . Rick and Evie are forced to wake the mummy by his followers . Now the whole family with Jonathan and the protector who was supposed to keep the emperor from rising , must destroy the Emperor or he will take over the entire world . The Mummy : Tomb of the Dragon Emperor has some OK moments , I loved the beginning story and the ending battle scene is held pretty strong , it's worth the look for that , but I would say this is more of a rental . It's just a sad disappointment , considering how much better it could have been . The one liners were too cheesy and we have three headed dragons , karate kicking abdominal snow men , why not just go all the way and have leprechauns with machine guns ? That's how out of control the CGI effects are . Luke Ford makes Brandon Fraiser look like Marlon Brando with his acting and the love story between him and the protector girl was useless . Like I said , wait for the rental , not the worst movie of this year , but a huge let down for sure .
Um , it's interesting how I voted for Damien at the end of the movie	I mean seriously , the whole trilogy I kept on thinking " Are the good guys gonna win ? " because frankly it didn't look good for our side . The story to be honest was a little weak and just never could compare to the other stories . It also left some cliff hangers that could lead into another sequel . Sam Neil as Damien was an interesting choice , he just didn't have the same fright as the children did , which is interesting . I also thought that Damien was British , in here he is American . Even though I had a feeling this trilogy was going to close this way , I felt empty and that I wasted my time in some ways .
Journey Through The Mists	The Land Before Time IV : Journey Through the Mists , the fourth installment into the Land Before Time series . I've been watching the sequels in the Land Before Time series because I'm curious about them , I loved the first Land Before Time and despite the sequels not having the best reputation , I still wanted to see what they were about . So far I really did enjoy the second movie , the third was decent and now Journey Through the Mists is pretty good . I think it's just as good as the third one , there's nothing that really stands out about it , but it still has a very good message about friendship and learning how to make new friends . It's very good for the kids to watch and I'm sure even some of the adults can get into this series as well for some light hearted fun . Littlefoot notices a longneck herd entering the Great Valley , and informs his grandparents . They tell him that the longnecks are their cousins , and that they must go and greet them . As the Old One , the leader of the herd , tells the residents of the Great Valley that her herd has been migratory since a heavy rain period turned their old home into a marshland called " The Land of Mists " , and became the home of many dangerous creatures , Littlefoot meets a longneck girl named Ali , and invites her to play . He introduces her to his friends , but as she is not used to associating with diverse species , she is afraid of them . Grandpa Longneck falls ill , and the Old One notes that the illness is lethal unless the victim eats the petals of the " Night Flower " , a flower which can only be found in the Land of Mists . Though Littlefoot is warned that the journey is too dangerous , he feels determined to save his grandfather , and asks Ali to take him there . She agrees , as the two of them make their way , they pass through a cave , and sudden earthquake causes a wall of rocks to crash down , separating them . Ali decides the others will have to help her free Littlefoot , and runs off to get them . Littlefoot , in the meantime , tries to find a way out , and meets Archie , who offers to help him dig through the rocks . They are interrupted by a belly dragger and a sharp beak named Dil and Ichy , who have their minds set to eat them . But Littlefoot's friends are not too far behind as they help Littlefoot and Ali . Together they continue the journey to help save Littlefoot's grandfather . The Land Before Time IV : Journey Through the Mists is a good animated film that I'm sure if you have an open mind , you'll enjoy it . There is so much dislike for these films , I think it's not just the songs but everyone is so determined that the first was the best and can't accept that there is a newer generation who wants to see new stories with Littlefoot and his friends . Over all I'm enjoying the series , even if it is a little cheesy , so far there hasn't been anything to hate . The fourth installment is a good one so I'm excited for the 5th movie and I'll give you an honest review of that movie as well .
One of those " You gotta read the book " movies	I remember last year seeing the trailer for The Golden Compass , now I'll be honest , I had no interest what so ever in seeing this film , but after seeing the Oscars , it was nominated for a few awards , so I wondered maybe if I had just misjudged the film . So I rented it this week and watched it yesterday with a very open mind ; while the movie was nicely made , the one thing I did not appreciate was this is a movie where if you haven't read the book , you'll have no idea what they are talking about really . The effects , the acting , the editing , etc . was very good , it's just the story that really gets your brain in an overload and at the end of the movie , you'll be like " What movie did I watch ? " . Lyra Belacqua lives in a very different world than our own , where pets are called " demons " and they can talk and change shape . But apparently there is some kind of organization where the demons and the children are being torn away from each other and the kids just disappear . When Lyra is taken by a beautiful woman , Marisa Coulter , but Marisa isn't so trust worthy when Lyra finds out that she's the one behind the organization and wants to use her for her special talent to read the golden compass and see into the world . The Golden Compass is a decent film , but like I said I was just disappointed in the fact that you really will not get a lot if you haven't read the book . But from what I am reading here on IMDb , the people who have read the book say that this film is a let down for them , so I'm kind of in a confused state more so now than when I finished this film . As for a family film ? This movie does have a little violence and scares here and there , but over all I think it's safe for the kids . Everything about this film except for the over the top story is decent , but maybe the sequel will make more sense , hopefully .
Fun , but stupid	After all seeing the very funny movie Caddyshack , I was looking forward to seeing the sequel , but I have to admit that I was nervous because I heard a lot of bad things about Caddyshack 2 . I was also reading on the internet how this was voted one of the worst sequels of all time , which is sad . But I wanted to see the movie still , just at least see if it was really that bad . So I rented it anyways and watched it the other night . Now , I agree , this movie is really stupid , but it's a funny stupid that's very light hearted and has a few really good laughs . I know Randy Quaid can be annoying at times , but he really steals the show and his comedy is outrageous . I didn't like how they were trying to replace certain characters from the first film , but I let go and ended up laughing and having fun with Caddyshack 2 . Jack Hartounian is what you might call , " New Money " , but he's a very successful in construction and is worth millions . He's a bit out there , personality wise , and dresses a bit crazy , but knows the hard work of the common man . His daughter , Katie , begs him to join a golf club so she could be with the upper class elite . But he makes a fool of himself and wants revenge on those who made fun of him . He buys the club and turns it into an amusement park ! But this doesn't stop the elite from trying to tear him down . Caddyshack 2 is stupid at times , like the gofer , they took the joke a little far . And Dan Aykrod's character , I love Dan so much , but it's like he took on Bill Murray's character from the first Caddyshack and made Dan really annoying . Jackie Mason is a bit out there and can't stand up to Rodney Dangerfield . But Caddyshack 2 still has a few good laughs , I mean , if you couldn't laugh at Randy Quaid and how he delivered his lines , check your funny bones . Caddyshack 2 is a silly movie , but it's all in good fun , but if we are just going to keep comparing to the first movie , then you're not going to have a good time .
What the heck ? ! Was Roger Moore a huge fan of Star Wars ?	As much as I am happy that I finally got to the introduction of Jaws , I have to admit , I wasn't really into this James Bond flick , it just wasn't as original as the other Bond flicks I have seen so far . James Bond meets outer space and discovers the evil master plan as usual , that Hugo Drax plans to destroy global warming , dun dun dun ! Although , I have to admit that Jaws falling in love was just too sweet , it's like freaks have feelings too , you know ? : D , just kidding ! I love Jaws ! He's so cool . Over all , this was an OK Bond flick , not my favorite so far , it was just too much of a copy off of Star Wars . But like I said , I'm just too into Jaws , so I have to give points for such a cool villain !
Sometimes good , sometimes a little too much	I'm not really into football movies I have to admit , the only one's I make an exception for is Adam Sandler's flicks because they are comedies . Varsity Blues is more of a teen drama and the Dawson's Creek lovers , due to James Vander Beek , or whatever his name is . While the movie is pretty good and inspirational , the accents were a little thrown off from time to time . Not to mention it was pretty predictable . John Voight was pretty good , just again , his character was a little too much . Being an American , I know we take our football games pretty seriously , but , I didn't need to know that much . While you still cheer for the coyotes , it's a fun movie to watch sometimes . I could see where some people would like this movie . Including Regina George . : D See Mean Girls to get that reference . So either you're going to love it , like it , or hate it . You make the choice .
Despite it's promising cast , it's very vulgar and predictable and a waste of a good thriller	While the ideas were very good and interesting , there is always a " big twist " at the end , that pretty much you can easily predict by today . I've mentioned before , but I'll repeat , you've seen one good thriller , then you've seen them all . While it seemed like the director had good intentions , he tried too hard to shock the audience when really I could had written a better script . Another problem I had is that Ashley and Morgan are getting stereotyped , well Ashley more than Morgan , because they are signing onto these thrillers with the shocking ending . It gets old , they couldn't do it really after the excellent crime thriller " Kiss the Girls " . When all is said and done , you're really just looking at the case of the movie when it ends and wondering why you bothered because you knew what would happen . Like I said , the cast wasn't the main problem , it was just script writing and the director's fault . There were some things I had questioned , like Ashley's character's reactions at certain times . They didn't seem appropriate or on cue when needed . Morgan was the only actor who was true and original , he and Jim had carried the film doing the best they could with what they had . If you want a predictable thriller , I would recommend , but I mean you can really save the watch . It's just not exciting any more to see them and the script could have been written by a 15 year old that has seen one too many high action crime thrillers .
Not bad , but it's nothing without Buttermaker	After seeing The Bad News Bears , I have just been in love with that film ever since my first viewing , so I figured despite the low rating on IMDb , just to give the sequels a look . So , I just watched The Bad News Bears in Breaking Training and while I didn't think it was so bad , it lost it's substance of what the first one was , and that was a crappy team with a lousy coach that didn't care if they won or lost . Now we don't get to know the coach better , we get to know the team better , well , I guess we didn't need to know that much . Some of the team is back , mainly it seems like we are focusing on Kelly this time , but they want to go to Texas to win the big game in the Astrodome to win the game for Lupus and a trip to Japan or something along those lines . But the team gets a lousy coach to begin with , so on their road trip , Kelly picks up his estranged father and asks him to be the team's coach and help them practice . Of course , Kelly and his dad need some things to patch up before they can play any games . The thing that was strange to me mainly , I don't know maybe because it's a different time , but I found it strange that the dad kept calling the boys " handsome " and patting their upper legs , but I don't know , maybe I'm just taking it too seriously or too PC . While , on it's own , it's not too bad of a movie , I wouldn't really suggest this movie for the hard core fans , but I rented both sequels , so I might as well see the next one , right ?
Yeah , it's stupid , but cut it some slack	It seems like on IMDb , a lot of people bash the newer Christmas movies , which in some ways I can understand , because most of the older movies could never ever be touched like A Christmas Story or It's A Wonderful Life , but I think we do need to be more open to these new family Christmas movies . I borrowed this movie from my friend and both her and I agree that it really wasn't all that bad . Although that it reminded me of another very bad 7th Heaven episode , I have to admit that I laughed a couple times , you have to just let up about these types of movies . The Krank's daughter , Blaire , has just gone away for the Peace Corps . and she will be away for a year , figuring it might be a good chance to think of only themselves , the parents decide to skip Christmas . But the Christmas loving neighborhood won't hear of it , they have their hearts set on getting the Kranks to love Christmas again and get all the decorations out along with the annual Chrismas Eve party they through . But they won't hear of it . . . until Blaire unexpectedly decides to come home for Christmas with a big surprise ! Over all , I wouldn't say that this was a fantastic Christmas movie , but it wasn't a bad one at all . It had flaws , a lot of movies do , but we need to cut it a break . You have got to admit the botox scene with Tim was pretty funny , even if it was a little over the top . So , honestly , just let go and have fun , you can't take this type of movie seriously , otherwise , what's the point of watching it if you just expect bad ?
An 80's iconic movie	I know how much Flashdance became such a huge hit of the 80's , it defined a whole new generation of clothes , behavior , and dance moves . That's what made Flashdance so special . Now I was born in ' 85 so I kinda missed out on these things , but I understand it's importance . I just bought this movie yesterday , it was back to back with Footloose , two iconic 80's movies , and I watched Flashdance this afternoon . While this film defined a huge part of the 80's , it was an average film with a simple plot . The acting and story is just pretty average , but it's a cute and fun one . Alex is a welder by day , but at night she is a sexy exotic dancer who grabs the attention of all the men . But she has big time dreams to become a ballet dancer , she has promised her grandmother that she would apply to the top ballet school and try to get an audition . But Alex is always intimidated by the other " proper looking " dancers with tons more experience than her . She falls in love with a fellow co-worker , Nick , who wants her to make it just as badly . She goes through rough times , but she just wants to make it and will do anything for that chance . Flashdance is one of those must see movies if you wanna see the important films of the 80's . I just wanted to see what this movie was about since it's such a huge part of film culture . Jennifer Beals actually did a great job as Alex , she was absolutely beautiful and made the character very likable . While this film did not live up to my expectations , it still was a good film . It has an awesome sound track and really is a lot of fun to dance too . Now excuse me , but I wanna try to take my bra off without removing my shirt , lol .
Michael Jackson : singer , song writer , ultimate mega star . . . actor ? Hmm , he should've stuck to his day job	Ah , Moonwalker , I'm a huge Michael Jackson fan , I grew up with his music , Thriller was actually the first music video I ever saw apparently . Believe it or not there was a time where Michael Jackson was like a God to people , a time where women fainted at the sight of him before really fainting before seeing the sight of him , sorry , Michael . But Moonwalker was what started to be a tribute to all of Michael's success of the time right when he released his famous Bad album that was record breaking , was the first album to have 6 top ten singles . Michael is an incredible artist , there is no doubt , he writes , sings , dances , but when it comes to acting or keeping a story straight with his audience ? not so much . We start off pretty simple : Jackson's music , life , career , success and the mania that was the 80's biggest star in the world Michael Jackson . Later on , Jackson is a 30's style gangster who uses his powers as a crime figure to protect the children . When Jackson was allowed to be near children , we cut to him playing in a field with the children and their dog . The dog runs away , and in their search for it , Jackson and the children uncover the lair of Mr . Big , Frankie Lideo , a drug dealing mobster with an army of henchmen who wants to get the entire populace of planet earth addicted to drugs , starting with the children . Mr . Big discovers Jackson and the children , but they escape ; Jackson tells the children to meet him at Club 30's , which turns out to be a haunted nightclub abandoned since the 1930s . The story goes back to the mobsters attack on Jackson , and here it is revealed that Jackson is actually a magical gangster , who draws his power from shooting stars . As one passes by the club , Jackson transforms into a sports car and mows down several of Mr . Big's henchmen . The story picks up on the children at Club 30's , and at first the children are afraid , but when Jackson appears the scary atmosphere of the club transforms and the children find themselves back in the 1930s . The club is now filled with zoot suiters and swing dancers . Jackson participates in a dance-off with the other club members , which serves as the music video for " Smooth Criminal " . At the climax of the song , Mr . Big lays siege to the club and kidnaps one of the children , Katie . Jackson follows them back to Big's lair and ends up surrounded by his henchmen . Mr . Big appears and mentally tortures Jackson by threatening to inject Katie with highly addictive narcotics . While Katie manages to just grab Joe Pesci's glasses and get free from being injected , Mr . Big decides he's had enough and orders his men to kill Katie before finishing off Jackson , but not before a shooting star flies by . Jackson transforms into a giant robot and kills all of Mr . Big's soldiers . Yup , ummm , you want more weirdness ? Watch the movie . Moonwalker is fun for the first half hour , seeing Michael's success and all his hard work really makes his fans appreciate him once again . Is it mostly to hype up his album ? Yeah , I love how he spends the first 25 minutes praising how awesome he is , then we go to his song called " Leave Me Alone " , which is kind of hypocritical , not that it's not a great song , just a small turn of events . Then when we skip the crummy acting , the story was incredibly weak : The villain spells his name out loud while Michael and Katie are spying on him , lol , Michael is a transformer all of a sudden , the villain's big monster plan is to make kids high ? Also the villain has some sort of massive ray gun that would make Marvin the Martian blush . But if there is one new thing that is incredible that the movie gives us is the new video for Smooth Criminal . This music video is perfection , it's choreographing , it's setting , it's song , it's smooth style , Michael always goes above and beyond perfection and Smooth Criminal was incredible . I loved Moonwalker as a kid , I still watch it for fun to this day , but it's not the best movie by any means , it's pretty silly , but it's all good if you're a Michael Jackson fan as well .
Why can't they just stick to an average slasher flick ?	I've just been seeing a lot of films lately , especially in the horror genre where they are making these stories into the big mystery thrillers . It's just getting old , because this movie could have worked so well , but unfortunately the story just went into a very strange direction , even to the point where I'm not sure where anyone could understand this film . The story is very gruesome , very Texas Chainsaw Massacre style , very gory , but I always did love a good gory movie , I think we all need one , but this one just could have continued into a great story and turned into a strange thriller . Two best friends are going across the country for a party and they stay at one of the girl's family's home . But the night doesn't exactly go smoothly when a big man rings the doorbell very late into the night and massacres this family , and I mean brutally . But he takes one of the girls , puts her in his truck , and drives off , but he doesn't realize that the other girl is loose and chases him to save her friend . It's just a very strange movie , the lip syncing is of course a little off , due to the fact that this is a foreign film , it was kinda weird how they kept going from English to French to Italian singing . Well , I wouldn't really recommend this movie , it's alright , it just got turned into a very strange mystery that I'm not sure you can understand . I don't mean that in a bad way , because if anyone knows how the story worked , please send me an E-mail , it would be very much appreciated .
Um , yeah , pretty funny	There's nothing I have never heard about Ace Ventura : Pet Detective . How funny it was and that this was the true movie that kicked off Jim Carrey's career . So , naturally , being a fan of his , I figured despite some annoying trailers for this flick , I'd watch it . While it had some funny jokes , Jim was just actually as weird as it sounds , too hyper for my taste in this movie . I mean , don't get me wrong , I loved the ending and the humor played into the villain . I loved more than a few scenes , especially the first scene where Jim is kicking around the " fragile " box and him trying to catch the albino bird was also great . Over all , I mean , I thought it was a funny movie , just not my favorite Jim Carrey flick . I'd rather watch Liar Liar or The Mask .
When you try to get into the movie and take it seriously , then it seems like more of a spoof and you can't help but laugh	" The Karate Kid Part II " was made a year after I was born , so no , I never really had an opportunity to see the films but I am now interested in seeing what the hype was about . When I saw the first film recently , I could understand why people enjoyed it so much . It had humor , drama , and a feeling of total accomplishment at the end as " Rocky " did in it's series . " The Karate Kid Part II " disses the honor the first one brought . As I predicted " they'll send the mother away and Ali will break up with Daniel because the actors probably either didn't like the scripts or actually got good careers " . I was so right ! : D First off , we are now in the country where Mr . Miyagi is from and he is there to visit his dying father . There he is confronted by an old friend who wishes to fight him over an argument they had several years ago over a woman . Mr . Miyagi of course says he cannot fight him and wishes to visit his father and leave once again . Daniel has also come along with him to Okinawa to learn about the culture and such . When Mr . Miyagi's old friend , Sato , just won't leave him alone about the fight , he gets his nephew involved as well getting Daniel tangled into the old argument as well . Now , the old friend , Sato , has such a deep voice that is trying too hard to intimidate , you just expect his mouth to be out of sync . That nephew of his also is like " I'm super bad ! Fear me ! I kill ! Grr ! " , it really wasn't that effective . The ending just didn't make sense to me and I wouldn't really watch this movie again . Unless you want to see the series , this is the only way I'd really recommend it .
For a kid's movie , it's very charming	Since my friend lent me the movie Balto , I decided to see what the sequels were all about and also show it to my cousin , maybe he might get into it as well since he's 5 and he really liked it and so did I . Balto 2 may not have been up to par with the first Balto , but it did just as well with the story . I think because so many children could relate to where they stand in the world , they know they belong with Mom and Dad , but where does their life go ? Balto now has kids , including a little wolf named Aleu , Aleu doesn't understand why her sisters and brothers were adopted and why she wasn't . Balto finally explains how she looks more like a wolf than a dog and she freaks out and runs away . Balto goes to find her , in the end , they meet another wolf pack who is running out of food and need a new leader to guide them to food and start a new generation of wolves . Aleu is finally discovering her place in the world . The animation was great and so was the story , I wish they didn't cut the ending so shortly , but I understand , kids usually have a short attention span , so it's all good . But I would recommend Balto II : Wolf Quest for a good family film to watch together . It was a really sweet and lovely film that anyone could be touched by .
If you loved the first " Dirty Dancing " , you'll like " Havana Nights "	Over all , I was a little surprised . " Dirty Dancing : Havana Nights " wasn't that bad . I did like the first Dirty Dancing , so I figured that I would give this a shot . So , my friends and I saw this last night and I was very impressed with the dance moves . But there are more than a few flaws . 1 . ) Romola Garai , although she is a great dancer , she was not convincing as an actress . It felt like she kept trying to get her lines right . 2 . ) There were too many things taken from the first Dirty Dancing . I thought they could have been a little more original . 3 . ) It was a little clique with the parents . One minute they are against Katie seeing Javier , then the next they love him . I don't want to spoil though . 4 . ) And putting Jonathan Jackson as a little bit of a jerk was kind of dumb . I liked how in the first Dirty Dancing , the original guy that liked Baby was just a dork . But Jonathan being a jerk ? Couldn't see him in that way . Just a couple things they could've fixed up . But I wouldn't mind seeing the film again if I was in the mood . PS , you're going to freak out when you see Patrick and how he looks . shudder
Being a child star rocks , it's being an ex child star that stinks	I'm going to be up front , I don't like David Spade , I was never much of a fan of his work . But one of the girls I work with mentioned how she saw this movie and that I should see it since I know so much about pop culture , including most child star actors and their history . So I decided to give Dickie Roberts : Former Child Star a chance , what did I have to loose ? I have to admit that I actually enjoyed this movie . It had definitely some of the most awesome cameo's that I have ever seen , like Corey Feldman , Dustin Diamond , Danny Bonnoduchi , Barry Williams , it was just awesome to see them playing poker together , that was the best scene . But the whole movie is pretty fun . Dickie Roberts is a former child star who's life has gone down hill since the sit com that made him a star got cancelled . He wants a comeback , but when the director , Rob Reiner , tells him that he needs a " normal " person , someone who has had a childhood , but Dickie wants the role so badly that he stays with a family to discover what he missed in his childhood . But he ends up with a lot more than he expected when this family may be all he needs . Dickie Roberts : Former Child Star is just a fun comedy with average acting , but a cool story . It was pretty unique and I just loved the ending credit sequence of the whole former child star actors singing about their memories and what it's like for them in today's world . Dickie Roberts : Former Child Star is a cute movie , some things are a bit unbelievable and the love story wasn't really needed , but it's a fun film and I would recommend it if you wanna just have a movie afternoon .
It's more of a blast from the past .	Here we are into the third installment of " Austin Powers " and sadly it is wearing thin . We don't have the same originality that the first one brought or the usually funny jokes . Now while the ideas were good and it seemed strong , it just didn't give . The beginning is classic and it seemed like this was going to be great . I mean , we have Tom Cruise playing Austin Powers , Kevin Spacey as Dr . Evil , John Travolta as Goldmember , and Danny Devito as Mini Me in the Austin Powers movie ! Just great and brilliant . But then the actual movie starts , Felicity is not here for no explained reason and Austin is single . Leading him to Foxxy Cleopatra , played by Beyonce and is way too stereotypical . Fat Bastard is also back and tries too hard with his disgusting jokes that fall flat . Dr . Evil is still pretty funny , but again just loosing his touch . We have a brilliant idea of Michael Caine as Austin's dad , but it's a hit and miss with Caine's dull performance . Goldmember , also played by Myers , is just too disgusting and tries too hard to impress the audience as another funny villain . Scott has now decided to take over the family business , which takes his cool and unique style away . : ( Mini Me is push aside then from Dr . Evil and he joins up with Austin to try again for that " shocking and ironic " laugh of him now being a Mini Austin . The ending is just ridicules . I'm sorry , this just didn't amuse me that much . The jokes were overused and not funny any more . There are too many stereotypical performances in here and the only thing worth watching is the beginning with the amazing cameo's . That was unforgettable , but the rest is just a skip . So , pass on this one , guys , it's not worth your time really . - and 4 points of that goes to the beginning !
The plot was like a cheesy TV series	A Nightmare on Elm Street 4 : The Dream Master , the fourth installment in the Nightmare on Elm Street series . I was lucky enough to get the boxed DVD set of Nightmare on Elm Street series and I just finished all the sequels and while the fourth isn't a bad sequel or continuation of the story , it was pretty silly . It was cool to continue on with the dream warriors who were clever enough to defeat Freddy in the third Nightmare on Elm Street . But Freddy's back and he is more ticked off than ever and you know that's not good . But while the story was a good idea , the way it was executed , I wasn't really that into it , just the acting I think is what killed it for me . The way the movie was made was what made it feel like it was more of a cheesy TV show like on the Sci-fi Channel than an actual movie . We start off where the third installment of the Nightmare on Elm Street series left off , the kids from the hospital are now grown up and are all on their own . But they are quickly killed off by Freddy hoping to get Kirsten back to help them , but they are too late . But when Kirsten finds a girl , Alice , she finds out that Alice has the same powers as she does . She has the ability to pull other people into her dreams and of course Alice is scared to find out how to use her powers , but she may just have to use them since Freddy is now after her and other kids too . A Nightmare on Elm Street 4 : The Dream Master was a good enough sequel , but it just could have been better . I liked it , but so far it's not my top favorite sequel . Again , we've got some very cool deaths , don't think I could choose one , I think the water bed one was very cool . But once again , I don't wanna spoil it . Of course if you wanna see the Nightmare on Elm Street sequels , this is recommended , but as a horror movie on it's own , it's OK .
Julia's big break	The funny thing is that I'm a girl and it's rare that I like a chick flick , I've found a few that I really like and some that I'm cool with . Mystic Pizza I'm cool with , just the fact that there's nothing wrong with the film . It's Julia's big break in films , that big hair , that dazzling smile , I think people knew she was going to be big . I started watching Mystic Pizza with my mom a while back when it was on TV , but we never finished it , I have to admit , it kept my attention . So I rented it the other day and just watched it a few minutes ago . It was a very cute film and a charming story for girls who know that it's time to grow up . I think the reason I enjoyed this film is that right now I can relate to these girls when they know they're going through major changes in their lives that they have to accept and go with . The story is one that I think most girls can relate too . Kat , Daisy , and Jojo are three girls who have grown up together and work together at Mystic Pizza . Jojo is afraid of marrying her long time boyfriend . Kat is having romantic fantasies of the married man who's daughter she is babysitting . Daisy is having a wild romance with the money of the States , Charles . Together they face the hard times of having to grow up and face the world . But they know that if they stick together , they can make it through the tough times . Mystic Pizza is a decent movie really . There's nothing wrong with it , there are some funny moments and some one's that make you shed a tear , it's a chick flick , what can you do ? But I would recommend it for a good flick , so far this is actually the only Julia Roberts flick that I have really enjoyed so far . But I think I loved Lili Tyler's character the most , she was so cute and funny . I loved it when her parents walked in on her and her boyfriend , it's such a situation that most can relate too . So go and give this a look , it's a good movie .
Not as bad as most say	Beauty and the Beast : The Enchanted Christmas is a sequel to Beauty and the Beast obviously , I wasn't too sure if I had wanted to see this because I thought it was just going to be one of those cheesy Christmas special things . But it turns out that this was just a semi-prequel for the story , just going for the stories in between when the time where the beast was still a beast , Belle was still trying to figure out her place in the palace as well as the servants who are still objects in this story . I actually thought it was a nice addition to the story , now I do think that this was unnecessary , because of course we always have to have a villain to these stories and this one somehow in between all the drama of trying to get the beast to turn into a prince , we have an organ that is trying to break the beast's heart away from Belle , yeah , it's silly . Belle is still a prisoner in the Beast's castle . All the servants are trying to figure out a way for them to fall in love with each other , but with Christmas coming up , they look at this as a great opportunity to bring them together . Belle is excited for Christmas , but the beast isn't happy seeing how it's the one year anniversary of his spell being cast upon him . The organ player though is not in the mood to be mortal again , so he decides to figure a way for the beast to steer clear of falling in love with Belle . Beauty and the Beast : The Enchanted Christmas is a decent sequel , it's a little silly , but I think it wasn't that bad . It was nice little story to add to the fairy tale , it's for the kids for sure , but it's a nice family film as well . There are some good songs in here as well , also we have Tim Currey who is always an awesome villain . Over all , I'd say to give this movie a chance , it has decent animation , a charming story , and the original voices , how rare is that when it comes to a Disney sequel ? But I do recommend Beauty and the Beast : The Enchanted Christmas , it's a nice Disney film , even for the holidays as well .
Home is where the heart is	I found Sweet Home Alabama to be a very sweet romantic comedy , Reese Witherspoon was just so adorable in this film . I wanted to see Sweet Home Alabama because I love Reese and remember hearing so much about it when it was released . So , of course , I figured now would be a good time to rent it and find out what this movie was about . Over all , I'd say it was a bit over rated ( everyone I knew who saw this movie loved it ) , but still a watchable romantic comedy . Sweet Home Alabama is about a girl , Melanie , she is about to marry the mayor of New York city's son . But she has a bit of a bumpy past in the south where her family and old friends are , she's still married to Jake , her high school sweetheart . Without trying to bring up her embarrassing past to her fiancée , she has to get things done and settled with everyone , including her husband . But she slowly discovers how much she missed her true home and how much of a wonderful guy that Jake is . A bit predictable and silly , but over all I would recommend Sweet Home Alabama for a lite comedy that most could enjoy . Like I said , it's not that big of a deal , but I love Reese Witherspoon personally , so you might disagree , but then again , how will you know if you don't give the movie a shot ? So , sit back and just have fun !
It has it's moments	" Bad Santa " does deliver it's title . I wanted to see this movie so badly because the trailer was very funny . But I figured this is a movie not worth spending 7 bucks on , so I'd wait for the rent . I'm glad I waited for the rent . There are some very funny moments in the film , but it does have a lot of dirty humor . Some humor I can stand , but it seems like " Bad Santa " was trying a little hard . I thought Billy Bob did a great job and I loved his character , but the rest of the cast doesn't add up . The kid and Willy were the only people you could get into . Over all , it's not a bad film . In fact , I wouldn't mind seeing it again . But it's not the comedy of the year .
It was lame and cheesy , but I think people are way to harsh on this film	I watched " Jack Frost " last night and I had my doubts because of all the bad reviews on IMDb . But I didn't think it was that bad . Yeah , it is a little cheesy , and of course very unrealistic . Sometimes that's what you need for a feel good kind of a movie . Over all , the script and acting is a little silly and this a movie more for the family by yourself . But I wouldn't mind seeing this again . It's not really that terrible . I'm serious , just give the movie a shot . Like I said , people are a little too harsh on the film when they just can't admit it makes them feel good afterwards . So , give the movie a shot . Especially around the holidays if you feel like a scrooge .
A classic that will be remembered like Sixteen Candles	Gosh , I have heard a lot about this movie , especially from my girlfriends . I'm not into the romantic comedies though , I'm not lying , I enjoy some , but I'm just not the biggest fan of ' em . Normally , they are the same with the deja vu ending every single time . While , Never Been Kissed is nevertheless the same thing , it's over all still a decent and cute movie to watch . It was fun to see a young Jessica Alba with Drew , both actresses are just too cute in this movie . I also liked the over all message of how high school people will never change , the popular kids will still treat most like dirt , the dorks will become smart and rich successes in life , and the jocks will only go on about the good old days . It's very true . While this movie didn't blow me away , it's still worth a watch and I think people will continue to talk about it for years to come .
Every girl's dream	What girl has not dreamed of a handsome knight sweeping her off her feet ? What girl has not dreamed of being a princess ? What girl . . . you get the point . But " First Knight " is in no way historically accurate . Of course , it is a love story and only that . If you ask me , the girl was kind of a tramp . Was I supposed to feel sorry for her ? She was playing both guys . OK , I just had to get that out . The only realy thing I enjoyed in the film was Connery's performance . He's been kind of letting loose with some roles . But he was impressive . Gere was alright . The story isn't horrible . But I wouldn't really watch this film a lot .
You know , Mickey Rourke always creeped me out . . . until now :	As much as I know that this is a pretty silly story that really makes mostly no sense whatever , but this movie was just so sexy , blah ! I'm shallow ! I'm sick ! I liked it ! Shame , shame on me ! Mickey is just so hot in this movie , I couldn't believe it ! He always creeped me out in his new movies , but once I saw 9 Weeks , he's just so beautiful . OK , I'm sorry , I just had to get that out . Elizabeth is a young beautiful woman who meets John , a smooth talking business man , and they hit it off naturally and passionately . They start a very intimate relationship pretty quickly and she ends up moving in with him , under the condition that he can take care of her have her to himself at night time . But of course since she doesn't know him that well and he keeps silent about his past , she begins to question him . Not to mention that the games are getting more and more scary when he's asking for more from her sexually . OK , movie wise , 9 weeks is no Oscar winning story , in fact , I even deny if there is a movie in here , but it was Mickey that drew me to the story . . . and that accent . . . and that hair . . . and that smile . . . Oh , God ! I need to go watch this movie again before I give it back to the movie store .
It doesn't shine like other Alfred Hitchcock films	Like Topaz , I found myself not liking Torn Curtain too well . I liked it better than Topaz , but still that's not saying too much , especially since I've been enjoying almost every Hitchcock film . The movie starts out strong and had something , but it didn't keep me going like a typical Hitchcock movie would . Don't get me wrong , I love Julie Andrews , she is one of the most charming women on the silver screen . But I just couldn't see her doing an Alfred Hitchcock film , nore did it look like she was into the movie . Her character didn't develop as strong as she could have been . Paul Newman was the same story , his character didn't get the justice and depth he deserved as well . It's a good story , it just didn't seem to well done , and not thoughtfully thorough as it could have been . I know there is a good movie in here somewhere , I just hope my next movie " The Trouble with Harry " will prove that Al didn't loose his touch .
Yes , ' tis true ! Michael is back ! And he wants revenge for his death ! Huh ?	After the failure that was the 3rd Halloween sequel , the writers knew that was mainly due to the absence of Michael Myers . So what did they do ? They invited Michael back in for the 4th sequel and back into the story of Halloween . Even though I did enjoy the 3rd sequel , I do agree that I missed Michael . He's my favorite boogeyman , so it'd be cool to see him return and do what he does best , slice and dice and scare the heck out of me . Well is this really scary ? Not too much , but still it's a fun sequel to get into and watch in the dark . I like the story and how they are continuing into the Myer's past and how far Michael will go to destroy this blood line . Although I was disappointed to not have Laurie Strode in this one , it was interesting to see how her legacy lives on with her daughter and now she will have the struggle with Michael Myers . Michael Myers has been in a coma for ten years , when his massacre was stopped by Dr . Samuel J . Loomis and Laurie Strode . Myers is being transferred from Ridgemont Federal Sanitarium to Smith's Grove Sanitarium . He awakens when he hears that Laurie Strode , his sister , is deceased , but her daughter , Jamie Lloyd is alive and well in Haddonfield . He kills the ambulance crew and escapes . Dr . Loomis races to Haddonfield in an attempt to bring Myers ' killing spree to an end once and for all . In Haddonfield , his niece Jamie Lloyd , has been adopted by the Carruthers family . She has frequent nightmares about Michael , though she does not know who he is . On Halloween night , Jamie goes out trick-or-treating dressed as a clown with her teenage foster sister Rachel . Her uncle , Michael , follows them . Meanwhile , Loomis arrives in Haddonfield after an exhausting journey , and contacts the police department to inform them of Myers ' escape . He and Haddonfield's new Sheriff Ben Meeker begin to search the town for Michael and Jamie . Myers has also blacked out the town's electricity by throwing a technician onto a electrical box and singlehandedly annihilated the entire police force . The girls barricade themselves in the Sheriff's house , while awaiting the arrival of the state police where Michael follows them and you'll have to see the movie to see the exciting conclusion . So over all Halloween 4 is a good sequel , it's not the strongest in the series , but it's one of the better stories of the franchise . I do like Jamie Lloyd , she was an interesting addition to the story and the writers are making these movies very interesting . I'm glad they brought Dr . Loomis back in , it brings us back into the original Halloween and he'll never give up until Michael Myers is gone for good , which we know is not going to happen since we still have 4 more sequels after this one . But the 4th installment into the Halloween franchise is a good one so I do recommend that you see it if you get the chance .
The darker side of Superman	I was really looking forward to seeing Superman Returns , especially since I just finished all the Superman movies and I love Kevin Spacey . This movie also looked very exciting and a great new introduction for a new generation . Though it had a good story , I have to admit that I liked the original better , this seemed like a darker side of Superman and not as fresh or bright . Sort of like Batman Begins , it seems like they want to take these super heroes and just make them so mysterious and not as bright or friendly , I know the comics are darker , but I just grew up with the cartoons and movies . Superman has returned , we're not sure why he left though , but Lex Luther is also back and he is planning on making his own island and destroying the United States . Clark is just getting back into things , learning that Louis has moved on with a son and a fiancée , she has also written an article on why the world doesn't need Superman , but that article is clearly proved wrong several times as Lex slowly tries to destroy the U . S . , Superman is there to save the innocent and know that there is more to Louis's son than meets the eye . While it had cool effects , the CGI seemed a little too fake and the original looked more real , you know what I mean ? Also , not to complain too much , just I wasn't sure where Superman Returns took off from ? Was it another sequel or was it a remake or was it like the original never existed ? Maybe I missed something , but I'm sticking with the light hearted and fun original masterpiece , same with Batman , I love those type of films , not these new darker versions .
It's um , well , it's interesting	After all the hype reviews , especially from Peter Jackson , the director from Lord of the Rings , who wouldn't want to see this movie ? We all need a good scare every once in a while . This was indeed , a scary movie . I think because it felt real and it could happen . A lot of the images were very disturbing and not fun to watch . But the movie and story itself ? Not on the bright view of my movie knowledge . There were some things that seemed like this was a college wanna-be director's first movie . While it had a very good and scary feeling of being claustrophobic and turning against your friends in a heartbeat , it didn't have any depth . I liked how he turned the friends into the monsters of the story . Because , in the beginning of the movie , they seem like your typical American college friends who get along very well . But when this " desease " pops up , they turn against each other in a heart beat . I felt that the director could have gone more into that . Another problem , the girls . I know that every good horror flick usually has to have sex in it , but this wasn't really necessary . It seemed like the director said " I have two hot chicks , how can I get them naked ? " Over all , I don't mind watching this movie . It's not too bad , but it's not worthy of the classic horror films . You get the gore , the blood , the scares , the senseless violence . So for horror fans , this is a go , but if your just looking for a movie , you have my warnings .
Cute and fun	I recently saw Garfield the movie and decided to go ahead and see what the sequel Garfield : A Tail of Two Kitties was about . These movies are so short , what do I have to loose , right ? Well I watched Garfield 2 yesterday and actually it was a pretty cute movie , from what I was expecting , I thought this was just a fun family film . Again , we do deal with the CGI , but for what this movie was , it had a cute story and fun characters . I'm kinda wondering though , what was the purpose of this sequel ? It's one of those " was this for the money or for the kids " movies . But I have to admit that this still had some fun laughs and cute moments , I'm such a sucker for the dogs , like Odie . But this movie felt more like a straight to DVD release than an actually theater movie . Jon wants to propose to his girlfriend , Liz , Garfield is so not in the mood to loose Jon to another life just when he got used to Odie . But Liz has to go to London for a convention , Jon thinks it would be the perfect idea to go and surprise her over there and propose . Garfield and Odie sneak with Jon and take the vacation too . But when a cat , Prince , who looks exactly like Garfield , is thrown away into the streets by Dargis , who wants Prince's castle that he inherited , Garfield is mistaken for Prince and taken back to the castle to live the high life and just party . Prince is mistaken for Garfield and lives the lower but the funnest life of lasagna and laziness . Garfield : A Tail of Two Kitties isn't a bad movie by any means , I think this is the perfect family film where it's great for the kids and even the adults will get a few laughs . I mentioned before in my Garfield comment that these movies did defeat the whole purpose of the original cartoon , but I guess I'll have to give up because you know we will see these movies again where they'll take our favorite childhood cartoon and turn it into CGI madness , maybe Woody Woodpecker will be next , who knows ? But anyways , Garfield : A Tail of Two Kitties is decent enough for the watch , but one watch is enough I'd say .
We all have to start somewhere	And Martin Scorsese did it with " Mean Streets " . Wow . Now , as most of my comments read , I am a big Martin Scorsese fan . He and Tim Burton are my favorite directors . Even though , I wasn't too big on " Mean Streets " , it was a great start . I was impressed with the story . And the acting was just as great . But it wasn't " Goodfellas " or " Casino " . I know those films were made after . But maybe I was expecting maybe a little too much . Robert and Harvey make a great pair together in this film . Before there was Joe there was Harvey . Sorry to say that I love Joe a little . . . WHOLE LOT MORE ! To " Mean Streets " ! The start of the wonderful and talented Martin Scorsese .
Good for the scares	I have to tell you from the minute that I saw The Ruins trailer , I knew I wanted to see this movie , we've been needing a good horror movie , especially for 2008 . So I didn't hesitate to see the movie today ; I'm actually a little disappointed . Now with the pro's , we've got an awesome plot , it's a little unoriginal with the gore and the shock ( ever since Hostel came out , it's hard to get a little more shocked ) but the plot works and makes the movie extremely disturbing and makes you move around your seat and uncomfortable . The only problem I had was the characters , they were either very dis-likable or didn't even have any depth , so you didn't care wither they lived or died . It's a typical horror movie mistake , characters are neglected and we are left guessing , but this is still worth the watch for the non-stop scares . A four friends are on vacation in Mexico , just enjoying the time , getting drunk , dancing , the usual stuff . But when another man , a Greek named Mathias , invites them to explore the famous ruins of the land , he's also looking for his brother who disappeared there , so he wants to see if he's still there . When the group goes there , they are confronted by a tribe who cannot speak English or Spanish , and when one of the guys touches the vines , he is shot and killed , the others are told to get up onto the pyramid that's covered in vines . They have to figure a way out while being trapped there by the armed tribe , but something has gotten " under their skin " . The Ruins is a decent horror movie , the best I've seen ? For the year , sadly , yes , which I'm hoping there will be some promising horror movies to come up . I'm just disappointed with the characters and their development , the girls were obnoxious and the guys were stupid . But the effects were cool and creepy , I think we all have that fear of these flesh eating viruses , so this concept worked . I also liked that it wasn't so jumpy and it didn't try so hard to scare . I would recommend it for a watch , but I'm just warning you that it's not what it's all hyped up to be .
It was meant as a gift to horror fans , but wasn't that good	I mean , over all , they really can't go wrong with some of the classic horror movies : Halloween , Hellraiser , Texas Chainsaw Massacre , and Psycho . But they didn't show the best clips and some movies , you were either " I didn't see that " or " Huh , why did they put that in there ? " They also missed some great classic horror movies , such as Jaws , The Exorcist , and Silence of the Lambs . I know that those aren't considered in some ways to be Boogeymen , but I think this was more of a tribute to horror movies . Also , they showed the worst clip of the Friday the 13th series , I thought they should have shown the 6th one where Jason slams the person in a sleeping bag against a tree , that was classic and terrifying . This wasn't too bad , but I mean , who really had heard of " The Guardian " , " The Ugly " , and not too many knew about " The Dentist " . If you want to see this , I'd recommend the DVD , it has great commentary by Freddy Krueger , or as true horror fans know him as Robert Englund . It has trivia and trailers , and is must see for horror fans .
There are a few too many inspirational speeches and it's totally predictable , but . . .	For some odd reason , I liked D2 : The Mighty Ducks . Now , obviously , I haven't had the opportunity to see The Might Ducks , you know , the first one ? But my friend only had the second and the third , so I'm watching those first and hopefully I didn't have to see the first one to understand the second . But I got the story just fine , not to mention , after reading the summary of The Mighty Ducks , I get the point of the movie . Basically , Gordon now has the chance to coach his Mighty Ducks again , only this time , they are Team U . S . A . They are fighting against the best Pee-Wee hockey teams in the world , including the very nasty , plays against the rules , Iceland Team . Now , if you've seen The Karate Kid , you get where this is going . Of course , Gordon changes and wants to win instead of have fun , leading the team into stress , and again , if you've seen Rocky , you get the point . See what I mean by how predictable it was ? Not to mention how many inspirational speeches there were , I was getting a toothache from how many there were , they were so sweet , it was unbearable . But I thought that it was a fun family film that the kids would definitely get a kick out of . As silly as it was , it is a good film for the kids , for morals , you know ? : - D But , just sit back and enjoy , you never know , you might like it as well .
It's a nice romantic film , Diane and Richard make it watchable	Oh , my friend was just dying to see Nights in Rodanthe , I'm convinced she is absolutely in love with Richard Gere , not to mention she just loves romantic movies , so Richard Gere and romance ? It's a no brainer , she just had to see this movie , guess who she begged to go with her ? Yeah , me , I didn't really want to see it though , it looked too sappy for my tastes , but we got to see it for free , so I figured to just go ahead and give it a fair chance . Well , we saw it today , it was a little better than I expected , which is saying plenty . After seeing the movie Unfaithful , I really wasn't into the whole Diane and Richard being back together on screen , but for some reason they made this story more enjoyable . Even though it was predictable , it was a sweet movie , I hate the sappy movies , despite it's sappiness that I normally resent , it's still a nice movie and was just a breath of fresh air due to the recent movies that we're getting that are either thrillers , comedies , or action . Adrienne Willis is a divorced mother of two who's ex-husband is begging to come back home after a nasty affair he had with one of her friends . She's debating on it since her children want them back together and she feels it should be that way . But when her friend leaves her to run her house on the beach that she rents out to people , Adrienne meets Paul Flanner , a doctor who has had a rough year after loosing a patient on a routine surgery , he's staying in the house with Adrienne . Loosing themselves has been so hard , but when they're together they find themselves once again and bring life back into their world realizing it's OK to be in love once more . Nights in Rodanthe is a nice movie to watch . . . more so I'd say for either a rental or a matinée , I was more impressed with it than I thought I would be , but it does get predictable , which I hate to say I've just been seeing nothing but predictable films lately . Maybe I should start writing scripts if this is all it takes , I could write a number one movie maybe , wish me luck . But back onto the movie , it has decent acting and does give you watery eyes . It's a nice movie to watch , gives you a little smile and reminds you of the sweeter things in life . Richard and Diane made this movie enjoyable and were lovely on-screen together , it's worth the watch .
" They're baaaack ! "	I just rented the double feature of Poltergeist 2 and Poltergeist 3 , so I get two for the price of one , how sweet is that ? : D OK , I'm a dork , I know . But over all , getting to the movie , I'd say that I enjoyed the second installment of the Poltergeist series . It of course wasn't as good as the first , but it had some fine horror movie moments and I loved some of the references to the first one . The family has moved away from the old house , hoping the problems won't follow them , but they do ! Carol Anne starts seeing some spooky ghosts and an Indian offers the family help , warning them about the terror to come . Of course , they think that they out of harm's way . Unfortunately , the demons are coming to get them , but their main focus is to get Carol Anne . They posse her father and cause haunting visions in their home . Poltergeist 2 has some fine moments , like I loved the father being possessed . He was so scary and convincing of how evil he was being . Then that little annoying voice actress came back , that was a nice touch . I think that if you liked the first Poltergeist , you'll definitely enjoy the second Poltergeist .
Can't spell " families " without " lies "	Four Christmases starring Reese Witherspoon and Vince Vaughn , I suppose I can accept it , just very strange seeing them as a couple on screen together . But anyways , every year we get a Chrismas movie , it's either going to be fun or really bad , sorry to say , but Four Christmases is nothing special , another year with an easy to forget movie . But still while this movie doesn't really stand out and it is incredibly predictable , there are some really fun moments . We at least finally have the split up family vs just one crazy family . Reese really turned on the charm and stole this movie , she was so adorable and she was great in the jump jump scene with the evil kids . Vince had some moments as well , but it's more the supporting cast that was just a fun addition to the story . When upscale , happily unmarried San Francisco couple Kate and Brad find themselves socked in by fog on Christmas morning , their exotic vacation plans morph into the family-centric holiday they had , until now , gleefully avoided . Out of obligation-and unable to escape-they trudge to not one , not two , but four relative-choked festivities , increasingly mortified to find childhood fears raised , adolescent wounds reopened . . . and their very future together uncertain . As Brad counts the hours to when he can get away from their parents , step-parents , siblings and an assortment of nieces and nephews , Kate is starting to hear the ticking of a different kind of clock . And by the end of the day , she is beginning to wonder if their crazy families ' choices are not so crazy after all . I would recommend Four Christmases just if you wanna see a cute holiday movie in the theater this year . Vince and Reese had good chemistry and this movie just represents the craziness of having to go to all the families every year for Christmas . There are some really good laughs here and there , I loved the scene where Reese played the Virgin Mary and Vince was Joesph in their church play and Reese just gets stage fright and freezes while Vince just makes a fool of himself on stage . Over all this is a cute movie , there's nothing special about it , but it's worth the look .
While it is just another teen movie , it's not too bad	My girlfriends at work just told me recently that I am not aloud to be a movie fan without seeing the " coming of age " films . So , they have lent me all the coming of age films : Pretty in Pink , Sixteen Candles , Say Anything , Breakfast Club , Weird Science , etc . You'll see later in my movie comments soon . So , was Pretty in Pink a good movie ? It was average . Your typical 80's romance teen flick . This is a classic though that I will appreciate and see what these other teen movies are about . Molly Ringwald is very entertaining and I loved seeing those familiar faces . It's a cute movie that I would recommend if you enjoy teen movies , otherwise , it's something I can live without .
Actually , I had fun !	Now , granted , 2005 was not the best year for films and lately the family movies have been quite lame . But do you really think , to those who have seen the film , that this film deserves a 3 . 3 ? Come on ! Where is your sense of humor ? Also , I watched this film when I was babysitting my cousins , we were just laughing our heads off because this film had some good gags in it . Yes , it's unrealistic , but what movies are ? Some have to be a little unrealistic in order to deliver what we want . That's the point of films , they help us escape reality and just enjoy ourselves for an hour and a half . So please , give this family comedy another chance and just let go and have fun !
A secret treasure of Steve's	I am becoming a huge fan of Steve Martin's , after all we have the same birthday ; ) , no , I'm having fun , but I love his movies . My mom is also a huge fan and has a lot of Steve Martin movies , the next on my list of flicks to watch was Leap of Faith . She said it was an alright film , but it was always worth a watch . So I finally sat down tonite and watched it and over all , I'd say that this was a nice and honest film to watch that can touch anyone's heart . Jonas is a con man going from town to town claiming he is a miracle preacher , Jane , his sidekick , just finds out information about the town and Jonas acts like he knows everything by miracle . Of course he and his team just take the money and run after a couple days . But when Jonas realizes the town's good nature , he starts to feel bad and falls for a waitress with a crippled brother . But things start to happen when the town's faith grows stronger and miracles really do happen . I would recommend Leap of Faith for an afternoon of nothing to do , I think that it is an under rated cute little movie that could make you have a leap of faith for anything . Steve Martin isn't really funny in this film , but I think Leap of Faith actually showed his dramatic talents pretty well , he's awesome .
2 . 9 ? Really ? Come on , that's not being fair , this was a decent movie	I know that this movie is getting a lot of hate , but I still wanted to check out The Longshots , once again , this is a movie that I am just baffled by all the hate . I thought this movie was actually decent and watchable , I know that the main reason why this movie is getting the bad reviews from IMDb users is because of Fred Durst , not to mention that everyone seems to hate Ice Cube's career choices . But honestly , this movie was inspiring and uplifting , there wasn't any harm done in this movie and it was different from other sport movies . We are used to the underdog usually being a guy in these movies , it's because of race , money , looks , or mental disabilities , for once we have a movie about the pressures of being a girl who is into sports who also enjoys being a girlie girl as well . The Longshots is also fun to watch and doesn't fall flat or becomes predictable like most sports movies . Jasmine Plummer is a loner at her school , always having her head in a book , her mother works long hours and her father abandoned them . Her mom asks Curtis , Jasmine's father's brother , to babysit her after school while she's working , Curtis complains all the way and even has to be paid to do the job . But when Curtis plays ball with the town minister , he discovers that Jasmine has quite an arm and makes her try out for the football team while he trains her . Jasmine takes back the team's loosing streak and she and Curtis start to finally love each other . The Longshots isn't movie of the year and it's not the best sports movie either , but I thought it was a decent movie to watch . Like I said , it's different and I thought for what everyone was expecting , Fred Durst did a good job of directing and Ice Cube is a lovable character that makes a great role model . I would recommend The Longshots for a matinée or a rental , don't take the IMDb rating so seriously , because I think it's just one of those hater's issues where the people who think it's going to be bad automatically just vote 1 without seeing it . So give this movie a fair chance , it's a good family movie to watch .
A COOL movie , not GREAT , just cool to watch	Knowing that our government gives extreme convicts a chance to save our country makes me sleep like a baby every night . . . wait , no it doesn't . OK , the story , is incredibly unrealistic and not to mention some of the action sequences that go on . In general , I guess this is what you can classify a " guy's flick " . But I'm not sure why , I kinda enjoyed " XXX " because it was very cool just to watch . I think just to watch these kind of sports are very exciting , so you just get into the groove of the movie and except everything that is happening . If you're looking for a great movie , I wouldn't really recommend this type of flick , but if you are looking for sheer entertainment , I think you'll get that with " XXX " .
It had it's moments , but this has to be one of the most over rated movies I have seen in a long time	I was so extremely excited to see Clerks , because I just saw recently on BRAVO the 100 funniest films of all time and Clerks was in the top 15 , not to mention I have heard so much about this film from other viewers , they have said nothing but great things about Clerks . To them it was the funniest movie ever made , so I had to see this movie , I also remember finding out that this is how Jay and Silent Bob got their start , I loved their movie and appearances I've seen on TV . Donte is a clerk attendant who is in on his day off , he has found out some interesting " news " about his girlfriend , he is still in love with his high school sweetheart , Caitlin , and he has constant brainless customers who come up and pretty much scare him . He has a friend who works next door at the local video store who pretty much hates everyone except for Donte , but he constantly tells Donte what's wrong with his life and how to get everything straightened out . Clerks turned out to be annoying to me for the most part , I laughed a couple times , but I guess maybe I was expecting too much . It just didn't seem funny to me , more offensive if anything . I understand that there are some people who are into that , but this movie just seemed like an OK film to watch that I probably won't see again , sorry .
Well , for the first time ever , I can call Jessica Biel a " bomb shell " ! LOL , you never saw that one coming , did you ?	OK , I'm sorry , I know I'm a dork , but I couldn't help it with that lame attempt of a joke . Anyhoo , I rented the film Next the other day and watched it last night with my mom and it was pretty good until the ending . I mean , it was one of those typical " let's leave you hanging " type of films that I don't need more of in my life . Now while it was better than I expected , the special effects were cool and the story was decent , the cast also worked pretty well . But still the whole Jessica Biel and Nicholas Cage love story freaked me out , isn't he like 43 and Jessica's like 23 ? Isn't that just a smidge weird ? Oh , well , that's Hollywood for you . Anyways , back to the film , Next over all was a decent film that is definitely worth a look , it's pure entertainment and flashy effects . Chris Johnson is a magician who can see the future two minutes in advance , of course certain people wanna take advantage of this . Like the FBI who needs his help to find a nuclear bomb in the middle of Los Angelas that could kill over 8 million people . But all Chris is worried about is finding a girl that he's been seeing in his mind , but he finally finds her at a diner , her name is Elizabeth , his possible future . But he may get her in trouble when the men who planted the bomb is after him and his new girl . Over all , Next is a good film , it's just very confusing in some moments , like Chris going back and forth from typical mentalist to guy who has a split mind . You'll see what I mean when you see the film . Julianne Moore was absolutely classic when she said so calmly to Nic Cage's character during the log rolling scene " You're just going to let me die ? " I just loved that deliverance , it was so human like . In case you didn't note , that was saracasim . I'm sorry , I know this isn't a good comment , just had to get my complaints out . Well , just watch the movie if you want , it has entertainment and some moments were you just can't help but question what the writers were thinking .
Predictable , but it's a decent comedy	After a stressful day , I needed a good comedy to lighten up my mood and I had been hearing a lot of good things on Ghost Town . So I saw it last Sunday , over all I think it was a pretty funny comedy , although I wasn't laughing as hard as the other audience members , but I had a nice time watching it , I think the reason why was due to how predictable it was . For example . . . the lead character can talk to ghosts , what do we constantly see in ghost movies ? The character who can see or speak to ghosts looks crazier because they talk to the ghosts right in front of people who obviously can't see or hear the ghosts . The story was also a typical romantic comedy that wasn't really original . But one thing I was impressed with this movie was how strong Ricky Gervais held his own as a male lead , with Greg Kinnear , they made a good match . They both had great comedic timing and looked like they had a great time making this movie . Bertram Pincus doesn't have the best social skills when it comes to life . . . he constantly pushes people away , he's a dentist who doesn't care for his patients or co-workers , and he just wants to be left alone . Well , for what is a routine surgery , he dies for a few minutes , but is brought back to life . Later on he discovers that he can see and hear ghosts , as soon as they hear this , they go on a rampage to get him to talk to their loved one's they left behind to cross over with making sure their family is taken care of . But one specific ghost , Frank , wants Bert to talk to his widow who's with a guy he doesn't approve of , but of course Bert socializes with her realizing that maybe needing people isn't so bad and that love can be found once again . Ghost Town is worth the look , but I would recommend it more so for a matinée or a rental , it's a cute movie , just doesn't have a real comedic edge in my opinion . But it does have some good laughs in it and a nice story that will make you smile . But there is another problem I have , Bert gets hit by a bus . . . he is revived by Frank's wife's ex-fiancée , by C . P . R . ? You get hit by a bus , you should be splattered into pieces , but instead all apparently it takes is C . P . R . and you'll be just fine . Sorry for the spoiler , but if anyone who saw this movie read this , I wonder if you agree as well ? I know it's a movie , but geez , call this beyond unrealistic . Over all , it's a nice movie , but it didn't thrill me , it's good for a couple laughs , that's about it .
You have got to admit , it's a little over rated and dated	Please , don't be upset with me , I am in love with classic cinema . Not to mention , I am a huge fan of Dustin Hoffman and Jon Voight , both are incredibly talented actors , and unfortunately not too many actors have been able to compare to them now-a-days . But for me the film just didn't work , it was just incredibly dated , you can tell by the film making , and the story just was too depressing . Although , I have to admit , I still got a few kicks out of the movie , especially now that I know where that line came from " Hey ! I'm walking here ! " . Dustin rocks ! Basically , Jon Voight plays Buck , a cowboy who has moved to New York to be a prostitute to makes ends meat , but he ends up meeting Enrico , played by Hoffman , a crippled con artist . They buddy up together to make it and have dreams , or at least more so by Enrico , to move to Florida / paradise . But things take a horrible turn when Enrico comes down with a bad fever , it really puts their friendship to the test . The first X-Rated ( by the way what's up with that rating ? ) film to be voted Best Picture , it really was interesting to watch , and I don't regret seeing it , just I felt that it was kind of dated and could have been done a little better . But it truly is Dustin who steals the movie with his killer performance .
Not too bad actually	Actually , after seeing the rating on Halloween 6 , I have to admit that I was a bit scared to see this movie , not because it's a horror story , but because it just had a low rating . But still I wanted to complete the Halloween series and when I rented this movie , I was really surprised that I liked it as much as I did . I think the rating is a bit harsh , this story brought us back into the story with Jamie , even though a warning in advance , she does get killed off with this sequel , I liked how they continued the story with one of the original characters , Tommy Doyle . It was cool to see him grown up and how the events of 1978 effected him . Honestly I don't know why this movie has a lower rating than Halloween 5 , but I guess to each his own , but I really do think this story carries itself a lot better . Michael Myers , his niece Jamie Lloyd , and the mysterious Man in Black have all been in hiding for six years . It is revealed that the Man in Black is the leader of a Druid-like cult , and the Man in Black kidnapped Jamie and had her impregnated . The baby is born on Halloween Eve and is carried away by the Man in Black . Later that night , a nurse helps Jamie and her baby escape . Michael Myers , in pursuit of Jamie and her newborn , kills the nurse . Jamie , meanwhile , steals the truck and flees to a dark and empty bus station where she calls in to a radio show that happens to be doing a broadcast about the Haddonfield murders . Jamie gets on the air , begging for help and warning of Michael's imminent return . Beaten and exhausted , she makes her way inside of an old barn where Michael is waiting for her . He kills Jamie , only to find that Jamie does not have the baby . Meanwhile , Tommy Doyle has his eye on a family who's moved into the old Myers house across the street from the boarding house where he lives . The boarding house is run by a mysterious old woman named Minnie . Tommy has been obsessed with finding the truth behind the murderous motives of Michael Myers . After hearing Jamie begging for help on a local radio show , Tommy finds her baby at the bus station and takes him into hiding . The people living in the Myers house are relatives of the Strode family , and among the current residents are Kara Strode and her son Danny . The plot takes a turn when the Man in Black finally reveals himself as Dr . Wynn from the original Halloween . Wynn has been experimenting with pure evil , does he think this is a good idea ? Happy Halloween . Granted , Halloween : The Curse of Michael Myers is very different than the other Halloween stories , but I think this was a good pick up . Plus you have to admit that Jamie's death is very effective and scary . The whole cult thing was a bit much , but still I think it was a good scare factor to add into the story . The acting is better I think and the writing was a little more accurate . Plus unlike Halloween 5 , Michael actually scared me again , thank God , I was getting a little frightened that he was loosing his touch and his butcher knife . So I do recommend this movie if you're looking to complete the series or if you're just looking for a good scare .
A good movie with a few funny jokes	I'm not sure why , but I kind of enjoyed this film . I guess because it reminds me of my friendships . I'm sure that it does for many others as well . " Without a Paddle " is a pretty decent movie that I would recommend for a day with nothing to do . It has a few jokes that you get a little laughter from . Seth Green and Matthew Lillard are so adorable in this movie . I'm a girl , can't help it . The acting though was a little dorky . This is a film mostly for teenagers . But you should still give it a chance though . Good movie , but nothing too special .
Did I see this or dream it ?	I was going through my mother's movies the other day and I came across All that Jazz , I remember reading in my 1001 movies you must see before you die book , this was mentioned . I had absolutely no idea what it was about , but I noticed that Roy Scheider was in it and he's a fantastic actor , so i figured what did I have to loose ? I slipped it in and this is definitely one of the most unique movies I have ever seen . Like I said I had no clue what it was about , so I even watched it twice just to clarify things and still I was just left dumbfounded . The way this film was made is not your typical biography , it does have exciting dance sequences and a lot of trippy scenes . It's strange to say , but it's very dated by the way this film was made . Roy does a knock out performance , not his best , but it makes the film work , but I just don't think this was a film for my tastes . Joe Gideon is a choreographer who is tough , but unique . He always cooks up something good and everyone just adores him , including an endless line of women . Let's put it this way , the line of women he's had an affair with could go around the world twice . We go through his life story , how he came to be who he was . A chain smoking perfectionist who worked non-stop to get ever step and beat down . The critics start to worry that he is loosing his touch , Joe works harder than ever to prove them wrong leading him into a physical break down , but he is determined to put the greatest show on stage . Roy really makes the film worth your watch , so I felt like my time wasn't totally lost . I just couldn't get into this movie . I think it depends on your tastes , it's just made very strangely , which I did understand the direction they were going for to understand Joe's madness , but it just wasn't for me . The whole dream sequences with I think her name was Angelique were just a little off key , I know why she was apart of the story , but it was just a little too strange . I'm not sure if I could recommend this , the only thing I can say is that it is a one of a kind film that you have to be in a certain mood for .
An above average thriller	Imagine , your child is lost on a plan that no one has seen , and now you hear that your child died back home and you're just possibly crazy . Have you really lost your child or are you simply mad ? OK , I know that's silly to say , but that is Flightplan in a nut shell . It's a good action thriller movie that is pretty well paced and is somewhat inspiring to never give up when you know your senses . But this movie did have it's flaws and overdoing's on explosions . It also had it's stereotypes and were just a little bit too much when it was not needed . I mean , over all , I would recommend Flightplan for a watch , but only if you enjoy these types of thrillers . It's a decent flick that keeps you guessing after all .
What Hollywood taught us about sex	What could have been a good movie , it just slid down after the last hour . I borrowed this movie from a friend and my best friend and I watched it together a couple nights ago . My friend kept saying that it was a very romantic and excellent movie . And Nicolas Cage with Elizabeth Shue ? This has to be a good movie , right ? This is one of the biggest downer movies I have ever seen . My best friend even walked out and wanted to stop watching it after the rape scene . I wanted to wait until the very end , hoping there was going to be in some cheesy way of " And they lived happily ever after " . But no , it just got more and more depressing to watch . The movie is good and the story is interesting , but it's a movie I probably won't watch again , just because it is very disturbing . The title I put , I've learned something from a TV show on E ! , you play a hooker in Hollywood , it's Oscar time ! LOL .
It was a fun movie to watch	On I love the 80's , they had mentioned Three Amigos ! It looked pretty funny , I mean not to mention three of the funniest actors of our time are in it : Steve Martin , Martin Short , and Chevy Chase . They showed some pretty funny scenes in the show and I asked my mom about it , she said that it was a pretty funny movie . So , when I went to Hollywood Video , I figured to watch it and have a few good laughs when I got home . While Three Amigos has some pretty good laughs in it , I mean , I did laugh out loud a few times , it wasn't exactly what I expected . I think I was expecting too much with the film . But still I would recommend this for a fun film to watch if you have nothing better to do or are looking for a cute comedy .
It didn't make me want to go the distance and I didn't want to hit anyone : (	Even though desperate plea's from my friends to not see the fifth installment in the Rocky series , that it would ruin the entire image of what I thought of Rocky , I still rented it . Actually , it's not as bad as people say , but I understand why a lot of people didn't really enjoy it either . It really lost base with the original Rocky movie and it seems like Sylvester's ego is just blowing up . As Rocky , he tries to train a boxer that has potential to be the next him , his name is Tommy Gunn , and Rocky tries to be the " Mick " to him . While it has so much potential , it just didn't have the same inspiration as the other films did . Every Rocky film normally ends with the big boxing match against a man who it seems undefeatable to Rocky . But we always had the optimistic ending of Rocky triumphing and holding his Adrien and screaming out his love for his kid , this time it had ended on a different note . When Tommy starts to get a big head , he leaves Rocky's management for a bigger one , but after all Rocky has taught this guy , can he defeat Tommy on his own ? Over all , like I said , it's not as bad as everyone says , but I can see how this wasn't that popular . So my official ranking of the Rocky films : # 1 is Rocky , # 2 is Rocky III , # 3 is Rocky IV , # 4 is Rocky II , and # 5 is Rocky V . But I would recommend it if you wanna finish the series or see the 6th installment next year . I'm curious , is Rocky gonna defeat some guy while he's in a wheelchair while taking his old man medications ? : D Well , I guess we'll have to see .
Jump Back !	Ah , yes , I did travel back to the 80's this morning watching the film Footloose starring then new comer , Kevin Bacon . The funny thing is that I performed Footloose in my high school , it's now like 5 years later and I realized when I bought this film yesterday that I had never seen the movie . I figured since it was so cheap for 5 bucks on DVD , I'd buy it for fun and I watched it this morning . Footloose is an absolute blast of a movie that I'm sure that anyone could get into . Yes , it's a bit of a time capsule , but it's still all in good fun . I liked how this wasn't necessarily your typical musical , it just had an awesome soundtrack with the movie . The story is just so much fun and original , you just fall in love with Ren McCormick from the start . Ren is a new guy from the big city of Chicago coming into a small town and now this small town has banished dancing since a big accident that happened years ago that killed several teens after a dance , there were drugs and alcohol involved , so naturally these folks think that it's all apart of dancing . But Ren's getting a hard time from everyone because of his fun loving nature , but he makes friends with a wanna be cow boy , Willard . Soon he also becomes the preacher's rebellious daughter , Ariel's love interest . He wants the kids to have fun though and wants a big dance thrown for the town and must convince them to cut their foot loose . Footloose is just a fun movie that I'm sure you'll have fun with . It's charming , it's funny , it's just a blast to watch , and it's an 80's classic . The acting was actually pretty good , we have a great cast that looked like they enjoyed themselves . Of course we'll always question how the kids just managed the skills of dancing , you'll see what I mean when you watch it , but it's all good . I would highly recommend this film , it's a fun one to watch . Kevin Bacon is totally cool and a must see for Footloose .
It wasn't bad at all , but it didn't thrill me like I thought it would	My boyfriend and I saw The Number 23 last night and we were pretty excited , because my girlfriend and her boyfriend said it was terrific along with other's who were saying how great of a movie it was . But I did hear from some of the girls I worked with that it wasn't that good or it could be a little predictable . For me at least , my opinion , it was a little over the top , because normally the audience would sympathize with Jim Carrey and his character , because it seems like no one would believe him , but I couldn't find myself believing him ; that he was seeing the number 23 and how it all linked together . Walter is a man who has just had his birthday , February 3 , February being the second month mixed with three . His wife Agatha recommends a book called " The Number 23 " to him , Walter immediately starts to read it and finds himself relating to the character Fingerling a little too much . He finds out there is a curse around the number 23 , and everything in his life is adding up to that number . When he finds out that the book ends in a murder , he fears for his wife's life as well as others and his own . Over all , I would say that this is a movie that you'd have to see for yourself , I just wasn't impressed . I couldn't sympathize with the characters and most of the movie was just a little over the top . Not to mention in some ways you can figure out the ending pretty quickly , but I am not going to give it away obviously . The only thing I found extremely funny was at the end of the movie , I checked my cell for a message and it ended at 12 : 11 , creepy , huh ?
OK , it is getting silly	But still , I can honestly admit that I do enjoy the Leprechaun series . Leprechaun has come to Vegas ! And it's not to hit the tables or see showgirls ! Leprchaun 3 has just as many gory deaths and great humor like the first and second one . I think the second is still my favorite so far , but still , I wouldn't say no to seeing the third one again . Warwick Davis once again reprises the role , and taking the leprechaun to newer and better levels than before ! Leprechaun 3 is about a magician who once again , you can guess it , he takes the leprechaun's gold . He intends to run of with his lovely assistant , but when she turns him down , smart move , because the leprechaun is on his case ! Not to mention that a few more greedy people get their hands on the gold as well , wishing for things that they should think about before they wish with this certain leprechaun ! My favorite death was the lady who wished she was beautiful , now how could a wish like that go bad ? Well , big lips , bad skin , big butt , that causes her to explode ! That was one of my favorite scenes of the leprechaun series . I think others would agree . Leprechaun 3 is a great addition and I hope it continues . I know Warwick won't let us down , even if he is in the hood .
Not a bad movie , it's worth the look	I've seen it all when it comes to the thrillers , the good : Se7en , the bad : 88 Minutes , the ugly : High Crimes , so Untraceable , from the trailer , I had a feeling this was going to be one of those average or less than average thrillers that I figured would be more of a rental then a theater visit . So I rented it last night and watched it , although I am getting a little sick of the " technology will destroy us all " theme ( it's been shoved down our throats a lot lately with movies ) , it's actually still a pretty clever movie . There are a few mistakes here and there , and some of these gadgets are a little out there for the computer age , but Untraceable I would say is a little above average , at least it wasn't one of those " guess the killer . . . gasp that was the killer ? ! " type of movies that you can predict so well . Jennifer Marsh is a FBI agent who does work on scamming websites , she has a beautiful daughter and her mother helps her since her husband was taken in the same line of work . One night , Jennifer comes across a website saying " killwithme . com " , she goes on , there's a dead cat . But she goes on a little later , there is a man being cut and bled to death , the more viewers that watch , the faster he will die . But things get ugly when Jennifer and her co-workers are now being attacked . Untraceable is worth the look I would say , the acting is pretty decent . The casting was alright , I do like Diane Lane , but I'm not sure if the thriller genre is where she belongs , but she makes the movie watchable . Colin Hanks , again , love him , but as a detective , throws me off a little . But some of these scenes are gruesome , we are in the age of the Hostel and Saw torture , where it seems like nothing is off limits , so I warn you that there are some scenes not for the faint of heart . Otherwise , I would say that Untraceable is the go if you want a good thriller , it's worth the look .
Big Brains are not always a good thing I guess	Oh , the memories I have of this movie , I don't know why I never reviewed it before , I think I kind of forgot about it , I saw it when I was just a kid . But recently I was watching Mystery Science Theater 3000 : The Movie and this was the pick for their big feature , it was funny because it was the first movie I had seen before I saw it on one of my favorite shows of all time . So I knew we had the movie on VHS and decided to watch it again , while it is mockingly silly , it has all the clichés of a typical 1950's sci fi film , with cheesy backrounds , bad acting , goofy make up and weird effects , this is the recipe for a disaster movie . But in some sense it actually gives right back to the audience where it had great intentions and you consider what this movie was up against at the time with terrific movies such as The Day the Earth Stood Still , The Thing From Another Planet , and War of the Worlds , this in itself is a small little gem . Dr . Cal Meacham , a noted scientist , receives an unusual substitute for electronic condensers that he ordered . They are un-Earthly in their ability to carry overloads of electricity ; he sends a letter to the company that supplied the parts , and receives a package which appears to be a catalog . He begins ordering parts from it , and eventually is given a kit to build a very complex communication device called an interocitor . When the device is finished , Meacham receives a message on it : a mysterious man named Exeter appears on the device's screen and tells him he has passed the test he was given . His ability to build the device demonstrates that he is gifted enough to be part of the special research project Exeter is running . Intrigued , Meacham accepts an invitation to visit Exeter's facility , arriving at the facility , Meacham finds an international group of top-flight scientists already present , Dr . Ruth Adams . But Cal is almost immediately suspicious of the odd-looking group of men leading the project . It is then that Cal and Ruth learn that Exeter and his band are aliens from the planet Metaluna , come to Earth seeking scientists to help them defend their planet in the war against the evil Zagons . Over all this is a fun sci fi film that delivers in the cheesy good times . I do think that this doesn't compare to other great classics , but on it's own , you have to give it credit for trying a new spin on the alien story . I just wish they had different actors , I think I just couldn't take them too seriously , especially Rex Reason and his voice , is just a little bit too deep and silly . His chemistry with Faith Domergue wasn't exactly dead on . As bad as the effects are and as silly as the characters can be , it's still a fun movie that I will never get tired of making fun of as well as it made a great choice for Mystery Science Theater 3000 . I would recommend it for those who are fans of the 1950's era sci fi movies , they are good fun and always a pleasure to watch , for those who don't like them that much , I'd say steer clear then of This Island Earth .
An alarm clock for parents	I just watched " Kids " , one of my friends , who is a huge independent film lover , recommended it . I've seen pretty much on what there is to see with the " Teens on Drugs " films , or even the sex type of films . While I think this was a poorly made movie and almost made me hate it , I don't think we should shy away from it , especially when there are a growing number of kids out there who are acting just as badly as these kids depicted in the movie . It's incredibly depressing how ignorant we are when we are kids , thinking we're invincible and trying to act all grown up . I think this movie shows what the youth of today is like , in some ways I was glad that it wasn't too dated , because it's kind of an important film . This behavior is the reason actually why I yell at my little cousins about rap music , not to get all holier than thou , I just feel that today's society is just horribly scarred with disrespectful hatred towards race and the opposite sex , it's really just scary to know that my future kids will be surrounded by this crap . But the reason I say this is an alarm clock for parents is that , they need to keep a better eye on their kids , and we can only hope for a better future and hope our kids don't turn out like these kids in the film .
It was interesting	I just saw Stranger Than Fiction tonite with my friends , let's face it , as a proud Chicago gal , I had to see it . Not to mention that this movie is the reason my best friend got to meet Dustin Hoffman and Will Ferrell since she attends The University of Illinois in Chicago . She was so excited to see Will , but didn't really know who Dustin was , sigh ! I know ! But , anyways , it looked like an interesting concept and a unique story . It's about this man , Harold , normal life and a lonely IRS agent who is auditing a young woman who he also has a major crush on . But things are becoming strange when he finds himself listening to a British woman's voice narrating his life . The problem is that he just heard that he is going to die and wants to learn how he could prevent it from happening . Harold meets this author who is a nervous smoking and depressing wreck , when she learns that her character is real , she doesn't know how to end her book . While , it's well acted well and the story was really interesting , this movie just didn't grab me . It had some funny moments and some sad one's , then I remember being annoyed with the talking and making out teens in the back who for some reason wouldn't shut up . Sorry , had to get that out . But back to the movie , it's something I didn't mind seeing , but probably won't see again , I'm not quite sure if I agree with the rating , but that's cool .
Despite typical remake styles and Paris Hilton's acting , this wasn't too shabby . . . and there is an ultimate plus to this film	Now , I have not seen the original " House of Wax " in a long time , which is o . k . I never had much interest . Seeing Paris Hilton in the cast made me stay away from the title , but my friend rented this and asked if I would join . I had nothing better to do , so I figured why not ? Over all , actually this wasn't too bad . I mean , it seemed like a typical teen slasher film : sex . , smart , sexy , shy , big boobed girl . , her boyfriend who is afraid of something in the relationship , a stupid slut blonde , the token black guy . , the rebel without a cause smart alleck guy / brother . , a stoner . , violence , swearing , and gore . What more could a horror fan want ? Plus ! Paris Hilton dies ! That is the main reason why you should watch this film ! That's the plus ! You have got to admit that's a good one .
Cute , but nothing stood out like the rest of the animation movies that were released this year	Flushed Away was one of the top movies I was looking forward to for the November releases . The trailer was just awesome playing E . L . O . ' s Don't Bring Me Down and this movie looked like non stop laughs . Not to mention the great animation and terrific cast , like Hugh Jackman and Kate Winslet . While the animation was great and the movie had terrific laughs and fun moments , Flushed Away seemed like just another typical computer animation flick . Rody is an indoor pet rat that is pampered like crazy , he's used to his life of luxury . When his family goes away on a trip , a sewer rat gets into the house and kicks Rody out by flushing him down the toilet into the depths of a rat city just like London . But Rody wants to get back home so badly , he goes to a boat that can take him back , the captain of this boat is Rita , a frisky little rat who gives Rody a hard time and they make a deal that if she can get him back home , he'll get her some valuable jewels that she can use for her family . But when she takes a wire from The Toad , a mob toad boss , she thinks it's useless , but it's for a wall that will unleash all the toilet flushes onto the city and help The Toad build a new city of his baby toads . I will never deny , I had a good time watching Flushed Away , I laughed more than a few times , but I just wanted something a little more special , since there are so many computer animation flicks . If we have done away with the regular animation , why not do something great with the computer effects ? It's just getting to be so typical , that's all . But I think the kids will definitely get a kick out of Flushed Away .
The Great Day of the Flyers	The Land Before Time XII : The Great Day of the Flyers , the 12th installment in the Land Before Time series , not the best sequel , but still very cute . I can't believe how many sequels there are , not that I'm complaining , just I feel like I'm becoming a dinosaur after seeing all these movies . But I digress , the Great Day of the Flyers is a fun little sequel that deserves more notice and credit than it's given . As silly as these movies are , they provide great lessons , fun animation , good songs , and how could you not enjoy your time with Littlefoot and his friends ? It's fun to see who also might be added into the group and I like that the writers are continuing some of the stories like with Cera and her father being with his new girlfriend , Tria . Also this story provides what a lot of kids have to go through , the curiosity of having a new brother or sister added into the family . Or how Petrie doesn't feel so special and wants to be like his brothers and sisters that can fly well . That's why I think these sequels are great for the kids , just a new way of expressing a story to make them feel a little more relatable , except for the flying part , but you get what I mean . Petrie is having a difficult time preparing for " The Day of the Flyers " , an important day for all of the flying residents of the Great Valley , when all of the young flyers must participate in a very precise flying exhibition to prove that they are ready to fly with the adults . Always a nervous flyer , Petrie has even more trouble flying with his siblings in precise group formations he's more of an independent , free-style flier . At the same time , a strange newcomer to the Great Valley has Littlefoot and his friends trying to help figure out just exactly what he is . The creature's name is Guido , he's the strangest looking creature any of the Great Valley creatures has ever seen , especially since he's covered with feathers , and has never seen another like himself . Cera is having her own troubles , as her grumpy dad and his new mate , Tria , get ready to welcome a hatchling to the family . All of these issues come together on the night before " The Day of the Flyers " , when Guido starts to figure out what he is , inadvertently leading all of the gang on a perilous adventure into the Mysterious Beyond . The Land Before Time XII : The Great Day of the Flyers is a fun little sequel and I can't believe that I'm almost done with these stories , but knowing the writers , I'm sure we'll have a Land Before Time 25 before I die . But I do seriously recommend watching these movies with your family , they're great for the kids and even the adults can get into them . It's silly fun , and I love watching them as cheesy as they may be . My friend says that she won't watch them because of the singing and silly story lines , which I think is a problem for most viewers and not to mention that people are just upset that there are so many of these sequels , but give them a break , they're very good movies . How could you ever not like Petrie or Ducky ? If you don't , you have no heart .
A predictable but enjoyable romantic comedy	While I felt that Jeanine was not ugly enough to play Abby , I mean come on , she is cute , this is a well made and fun little comedy . Uma and Jeanine were just adorable together and fit right as best friends . Together they created the perfect woman . I also think that I enjoyed the film because it hit close to home on my opinion of what people are finding attractive . I watch dating shows sometimes or just listening to my friends and all they want is a smart , funny , intelligent , BUT GOOD LOOKING person . Riiiight . I always thought that there should be some way to show how we act towards what people found attractive , this is a good example of a movie for our behavior . It's a cute movie and I would recommend it for a watch .
Let's do the time warp again	Recently they've been advertising that Cinderella III : A Twist in Time along with the other Cinderella movies are going back into the " Disney Vault " . I never wanted to see the sequels of Cinderella before , but do to the wonderful world of subliminal messages , I broke down and decided to rent the sequels . I watched Cinderella 3 yesterday and even though it was kinda weird , I don't think it was a continuation of the second Cinderella movie , it was pretty cute and a wonderful children's movie . The animation was a big improvement from the second Cinderella , it was a lot more bright and fun to watch . The story was a pretty clever idea , it was nice to see what happened to the wicked step mother and Cinderella's ugly step sisters . Cinderella and her prince are just living happily ever after , nothing could be more perfect in her life . But when we visit the step mother and her greedy daughters who are living Cinderella's former life of yucky chores , but when one of the daughters , Anastasia , she sees the fairy god mother and steals her wand . The step mother thinks it's time for revenge on Cinderella and turns back time with the wand . Now it seems that the prince wants to marry Anastasia , and Cinderella gets squat . But when the mice find out about what the step mom did , they are going to make sure things get set back right with Cinderella and her prince charming . Cinderella III : A Twist in Time is pretty fun to watch , it has a good story , fun songs , and just makes you go " Aww " , all the ingredients to a decent Disney movie . As we know that many Disney sequels don't really work that well , normally since they're released straight to video or DVD , they're low budget and not that fun . Even though Cinderella III : A Twist in Time isn't up to Cinderella's original magic , it's still a fun little movie that I'd recommend for any child .
It's good , but a little over rated	Now , I've seen " Pretty Woman " a million times . Of course it's a lot of my girlfriend's favorite movies . But I wasn't that impressed . A man picks up a hooker , she stays with him for a while , and he falls in love with her ? It just doesn't work on many levels .
Love means never having to say you're sorry ? . . . Pfft . . . . ha ha ha ha ha ha !	I just always laughed at that line , because we all know the truth now . " Honey , I'm sorry , I wrecked the car " . " Sweetie , I'm sorry , I want to go out with the guys tonight " . " Baby , I'm sorry , I found someone better than you , your brother . " OK , that's a little extreme . Well , I had heard so much about " Love Story " , I just had to see this movie . I know that it was popular back in the day and not to mention it still has some impact today . Now a days , we have " The Notebook " . I thought that actually over all , it was a pretty decent flick . Although , I really didn't feel for Ali McGraw , I'm sorry , just she was such a brat . Not to mention , that Ryan O'neil , you were kinda still mad at him , because I think he still got together with Ali for the fact that he wanted to rebel against his parents . It still was an effective movie over all and both Ali and Ryan did a great job of acting . I could see where they got nominated for their roles . They had great chemistry and made the movie work . Still , this was kind of a over rated movie .
Kind of insults the story	Well , I was really looking forward to seeing The Texas Chainsaw Massacre : The Beginning , I even dragged my friend to see it . I really enjoyed the first remake and this looked like it had even more scares and a great story . I loved the original Texas Chainsaw Massacre as well , so I figured it would be interesting to see how the family got started . That's what this story delivers . It's just about how Thomas Hewitt / Leatherface was born and raised into becoming Leatherface . The new sheriff , well the farmer killed the real sheriff we find out , and just takes his place , he figures he should train Thomas to be a killer as well . 4 teens just happen to be cruising by and get into a car accident because of a biker trying to rob them , but the " sherrif " comes by and kills the biker and captures 3 out of the 4 teens . Well , you get the idea of how else this story came to be . Now , the story I think needed more development , like how Thomas grew up , they kind of skimped out on it . The acting is your typical cliché horror film , but I did love the gore . It had a few scary moments , but it got really annoying with all the loud noises when there was nothing to be scared of . But I guess you should just judge for yourself .
With Liberty and Justice For All	Oh , boy , a film about George W . Bush , could be the new " Forrest Gump " , lol . My head still hurts , because I was just banging it on the wall after I watched this film , how in the heck did this man run our country for 8 years without burning it down ? Now I understand why this film was released right before election time , now I work at a movie theater and everyone who came out of the theater said they felt bad for W . and a couple of my friends who I saw the film said they also felt bad for him . . . how about us ? ! OK , before I start banging my head up against the wall again , so Oliver Stone is the critical director who decided to take on this wonderful project . The film is actually well made , Josh Brolin does a decent job of portraying our constant dumbfounded president , the story is pretty sad when you think about all the pressures he must face on a daily basis . Based on George W . Bush's life , we go from when he was just a crazy party animal in college . Dubbed as the black sheep of the family , that his brother would be more suited as president , facing constant criticism from his father George Bush , Sr . who was also our president for a short time . We explore W . ' s life with his family , his presidency , the pressure he faces , and the Iraq war . We also go into his world of having to pull himself out of his rut with his family who constantly puts him down with a country who is not exactly proud of him as well . W . is a good film , it's well acted and put together , however , my main complaint , but I think there is a reason why , is that Oliver completely skips the election controversy we faced in 2000 as well as which I thought was an important subject to touch . But I have a feeling why he didn't bring it up is due to how hard those times were for him and wasn't exactly sure how to go at it . Over all this is a watchable movie , but for me , it is forgettable , I don't know if it will be considered a classic down the line , but I guess we'll find out if our future kids are watching it in their history classes and asking us " what were you on when you voted for this guy ? " .
Not great , but still very cute	This wasn't my favorite Disney film . I mean it is fun to watch sometimes . But it's more for the kids than adults . I love Disney films a lot , even though they are meant more for children . I always felt like they should also be for adults . " The Recscuers down under " was not one of them .
A calmer version of Jerry Springer	I'm not sure why , but while I was at Hollywood Video , I ran across XX / XY and decided to give it a shot . What did I have to loose ? It was free ! : D I'm in a special club . Anywho , XX / XY takes on at first this gritty type of independent film with a couple of actors I knew . Mark Ruffalo who I just recently saw in In the Cut and Kathleen Robertson who I have seen in Scary Movie 2 . The film is about Mark who plays Coles , a wanna be director who meets Sam , a simple girl who lives with her roommate , Thea , played by Robertson . Coles , Sam , and sometimes Thea hook up , but it is Sam and Coles that truly fall for each other . But when Coles goes too far with Thea , Sam breaks it off with him . They meet again ten years later coincidentally and despite Coles being in a serious relationship , questions if he still has feelings for Sam . It's an interesting movie , but I did like it's true honest drama and human emotions . Although I felt like I could easily see these situations on a talk show , it still wasn't a bad movie to watch .
I think it just could have been more	I was so not interested in seeing Half Light , I'm not much of a Demi Moore fan . Especially since her recent publicity of Charlie's Angels , I mean , a person gets plastic surgery , and everyone worships them ? It doesn't work for me , but then when I recently went onto IMDb , I just was surfing and found my old love , Hans Matheson and saw that he did this movie and how I passed it so many times at the video store . So , as shallow as it sounds , for an old memory , I figured I'd give this a watch . Half Light is about a woman who has just lost her son to a horrible drowning , she has guilt over it because she was supposed to play with him that day and could've prevented it . She is getting a divorce and deciding to write her next book out in the country of Scotland . She meets a handsome young man , but then finds out that supposedly he's been dead for some years , but there is more to figure out to the story later . It's a good story and could've been so much , I actually might have enjoyed Demi . But the problem was that the story kinda bored me and it seemed to drag on . It either could've been summed up or the maybe it was the writing or the actors , but I think you get my point . Especially when you see this movie , but judge for yourself .
I liked the original better	Since I finally remembered to rent The Bad News Bears at Hollywood Video , I decided to rent the remake instead of the sequels first , to see what the remake was all about and I thought that actually Billy Bob Thorton was a great choice for Buttermaker , so I was kinda looking forward to it . Of course , I watched the original first , so after almost dying of laughter from The Bad News Bears , this film had a lot to live up too . Unforutnatley , I don't think this film worked as well because of the dates , the 70's , films still seemed like they could push it to the edge , while into today's world , we have to be more PC . Not to mention the kids were more annoying and punky than the lovable punky kids in the original . Buttermaker is a has been baseball player and now an alcoholic , he is given the job of a little league coach for the Bears since no other fathers are taking the job . But he's definitely taken back when he finds out that the team he is coaching are kids who are , well , I guess you could say " lacking " in the department of knowing how to play baseball . But he just wants to get paid and get the job over with , but when their first game comes along , the kids get creamed 26-0 , Buttermaker is pressured to drop the team out of the league , but instead teaches the kids how to play and recruits a couple of new kids , a girl who's mother he used to date , and a rebel without a cause . The kids get better in each game , but it's a matter of Buttermaker getting his priorities straight when he lets the game get the worst of him . . . and he's an alcoholic ! Billy Bob did do a good job as the new Buttermaker , but he seemed to be the softer version than Walter , so I'd have to vote for Walter if I want the real Buttermaker . Tanner , I was incredibly disappointed with , because he just turned into an annoying brat than a fun little punk , not to mention I was ticked off that they changed the line " shove the trophies up your . . . " to the other kid , that was Tanner's line and rightfully so ! While Bad News Bears had a couple laughs , it just wasn't needed , stick with the original .
Nobody wants to be lonely	" Four Weddings and A Funeral " starts off as a really nice comedy but ends poorly in my opinion . I am a little surprised by the decent rating here on IMDb . POSSIBLE SPOILERS ! ! ! OK , we start off with Hugh Grants ' character , Charlie . He is always late and a bit commitment-phob . He meets Carrie , an American lady with a bad reputation . They have a one night stand and Carrie leaves the next morning for America . Charlie has not stopped thinking about her for over 3 months where they have another encounter at another wedding . Unfortunately , we find out that Carrie is engaged , it's only been 3 months ! Crazy , no ? Well , does this stop them from having another night together ? No ! She gets married the next day like nothing happened and Charlie confesses his love to her . When he and his friends make a pact to get married , he goes back to his crazy Fatal Attraction type of neurotic ex . They become engaged out of no where and when Carrie comes to Charlie's wedding , she tells him that she's separated . So , the mature thing to do for Charlie , dump his bride at the alter and Carrie and Charlie live happily ever after . In my opinion , the ending was just ridicules and immoral . I wasn't too crazy about this movie . I enjoyed about 60 % of the movie , but the rest was just too heart breaking .
Although I didn't take a liking to the ending , it was a decent movie	" 40 days and 40 nights " is about a guy who vows that he will remain " untouched " for Lent . 40 days and 40 nights of him not touching a girl or himself to push the vow to go a little further . Seems easy , right ? Oh , wait ! I forgot , Josh Hartnett is the guy ! That's what makes the movie so ridiculous . But you kind of get into it . It's kind of ironic , because Josh is a cutie that all the girls love , and you can't imagine a guy like him would make a vow like that . You'd think they would cast maybe a nerd or something . : P Just kidding . I thought the movie was actually pretty good . It has some very funny moments and sexy ones as well . I would recommend for the weekend if you have nothing better to do . I just didn't like the ending too well , but you have to judge for yourself .
Original and scary . . . for it's time	Man , what haven't I heard about " The Howling " ? How it scared my parents and their friends . How amazing the effects were . So , I went out and rented before I bought . May I say that I was happy I rented . I wasn't really too impressed . I know , I know . " You don't appreciate the classics . All those computer effects today got to you ! " . Believe me , I've heard it . I don't even think that computer effects are that impressive . I'd rather watch this than the " Hulk " . I just would rather stick to " American Werewolf in London " than this . " The Howling " is an OK film . For horror fans , I would suggest giving it a shot . And the effects were great for the time . So ,
Good for what it was	When I saw the trailer to Fred Claus , I was excited , this seemed like a fun Christmas movie that would have tons of good laughs and had a great plot . Now I waited ' till the weekend after this film opened , and I heard nothing but terrible reviews about it , so I was very scared to see it . But the way I looked at it was some people have different opinions , nothing to worry about . So I saw it tonite with my boyfriend , and I have to say that honestly , for what it was , this was just a fun Christmas movie . True , it's cheesy and the jokes are a little dumb at times , but it was all in good fun . I think honestly this is one of the better Christmas movies we've had in a while . It was definitely better than Deck the Halls , you have to admit . The story was still clever I think , I mean who could live up to Santa Claus status ? Fred certainly had a hard time doing it . Fred Claus is the older brother of Santa Claus , quite frankly he's getting a bit tired of all the attention Nicholas ( Santa ) gets . It's tough being the brother of a saint . But when he gets into a bit of trouble with the cops , he asks Nic for help and Nic gives it to him , but Fred wants more money , Nic tells him alright , if he comes up to the North Pole to help him out with the work . Fred comes up and decides to shake things up in the North Pole with the elves , but it couldn't come at a worse time when Santa is being examined for his business and could possibly be shut down . Fred Claus was a cute holiday movie , like I said , it's nothing special , but I thought it was fun . You have got to admit , to those who saw the movie , that scene where Fred goes to the anger management and finds other celebrity brothers who are in the same situation was beyond hilarious ! I couldn't stop laughing at Stephen Baldwin , I wonder what Alec thought if he saw this movie , lol . Fred Claus is a good holiday film and I think people are just taking it too seriously here on IMDb , just go and have fun . That's what Christmas movies are supposed to be .
Does anyone not like this movie ?	I did laugh a few times , but " Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back " was kind of stupid . It has it's moments , but everyone I know just loves this movie . So , I'm thinking either A : I'm going insane or B : I need to watch this a few times to get it . I'm not sure which .
Over rated , but it still has it's moments	What haven't I heard about " There's Something About Mary " ? It's funny , cute , and a great movie . That's what everyone said pretty much . I even checked out IMDb , and at a 7 . 2 , this seems like a movie anyone can enjoy . While there were some good laughs , I wasn't quit thrilled . I got more than a few laughs from " Me , Myself , & Irene " and " Shallow Hal " . So , I'm not sure why I wasn't that big about this . It seemed like in some ways the humor was a little dry at times . Or something that was supposed to be funny I couldn't laugh at because I've either seen it before , or it wasn't in my humor . Ben Stiller is a great character in the movie . I really enjoyed watching him and his " comedic " type of performance . Cameron Diaz is alright . I was never a big fan of her's . Matt Dillon has his moments in the film . I would recommend for a couple laughs . But don't expect too much .
A little better than the first , but still nothing special	I don't get it . Take away the fancy computer effects and Wesley Snipe's fighting moves , and what do you have ? An average vamp flick . I'm not sure if I really understood the story . But I did like it a little more then the first . So , I'll be nice and give it
21 years later and this story remains true as ever	I just bought a DVD with About Last Night and St . Elmo's Fire , I figured since it was 5 dollars to give it a look . I watched About Last Night first , I have to say that this movie despite it's dated look and music , is still vital to today's world of love and sex . It's amazing how we still haven't changed that much , huh ? But anyways , onto the movie , over all acting and the way that About Last Night was shot , I'd say this was a decent movie . It's still somewhat of a classic to this day , it starred a couple of the famous members of the brat pack , Demi Moore and Rob Lowe who had absolutely amazing chemistry on screen and really brought the relationship to life . While I admit , that this is very dated , it's all good , most of our movies will one day be dated , it's kinda fun to see what life was like then . I was only 1 years old when this movie came out , so those shoulder pads would've weighed me down , lol . Despite the dated look , the story is as true as it ever was today . Debbie and Danny , first off , how corny are these names put together ? OK , back onto the story , they meet at their favorite bar and hook up , it seems like the most common one night stand . But they can't help but think of each other , so they continue on with their sexual relationship . But they are getting more and more serious with seeing each other , so they move in together , as just room mates as first . But eventually they decide to try a relationship as boyfriend and girlfriend . But things get very difficult with their two best friends who are just rooting for their relationship to crumble to pieces . Then they must confront the difficult part , is there anything they have past than just the physical attraction ? You'll have to see for yourself . About Last Night is a good movie , the acting and over all film is average , it's watchable . It has a little comedy to it as well , so it's not all drama . It's got some steamy moments between Demi and Rob , I have to say that it was beautifully shot in the scene where they first say I love you to each other . But this movie really did get to me because I could totally relate to Demi's character on every level , I think that's another plus is that it is written very realistically and doesn't just have them be all happy again after all their problems , it's very realistic to what trials a relationship goes through . I would recommend About Last Night , it's a good film and a fun time capsule .
You know what I really hate ? . . .	I love action movies , I mean , I really love action movies , even the most unrealistic one's like Die Hard and Commando , they're just all in good fun and enjoyable . Either the action movie is going to be great and unrealistic or great and have a fantastic believable story . So I saw Shoot ' Em Up the other day when I rented it and over all , yeah , it can be fun at times to watch , it brought me back to the good ol ' days of Commando where this guy is just getting shot at by 50 men at the same time yet he kills them all and doesn't get a scratch . Just like Paul Giamotti's character said " OK , do we really suck that much or is this guy really that good ? " , so true , at least they recognize it . But Shoot ' Em up is just for those who are just very trigger happy and doesn't have the best script . I just thought that Shoot ' Em Up could've had a great story with terrific actors , but they went the other way . Mr . Smith is just sitting at a bench , minding his own business eating a carrot , he sees a young pregnant woman running down the street . A car skids by and man gets out chasing after the woman and is about to kill her , but Mr . Smith decides to get involved , he delivers the baby while in the middle of a shoot out , but the mother gets killed , he keeps the baby and realizes that this baby means something . He gets a hooker , Donna Quintano , to help him take care of the baby , but this hit man Hertz is not giving up and will get this baby even if it requires killing Mr . Smith , the ticked off British nanny . There is a scene where Mr . Smith and a bunch of Hertz's men jump out of a plane and somehow are still shooting at each other , now I can accept unrealistic , but that was way way way way beyond anything that could be believable and I just ended up laughing at . It has the smooth talk and stunts of a perfect action movie , I just had a hard time because I think this was one of those movies that could have had a better developed story , it would have been better . I do give Clive better credit than I thought , he made a great hero , just if we are going to do unrealistic , make it fun unrealistic , like Commando , not tell us Mr . Smith's history and not tell us why he decided to get involved with this .
Like Susan said , " I'm getting naucious ! "	That's how I felt about the film . " Open Water " was hyped up like the " Blair Witch Project " , and did the exact same thing . Despite I liked " Open Water " better , it still had some major flaws . The movie is most of the couple complaining . " It's your fault ! " " No , you picked the dates ! " , yadda , yadda , yadda . SPOILERS ! ! ! You are honestly telling me that the captain or teachers didn't count the tanks ? I went snorkling once , and let me tell you , they counted the tanks before and after we got in and out . And the couple was taking their sweet time , when they could've paid attention to the time . Come on , I mean seriously , would you stray away from the group ? And one more thing that bothered me was the poor quality of film making . I understand that it was an independent film , but I was getting sick . There are some great shots though and great acting . I do give credit somewhat .
Dustin Hoffman can easily can get you hooked	Hook is a spin off of the classic tale of Peter Pan , you ever wonder what life would have been like for Peter Pan if he had grown up ? If he had kids , a wife , and a career as a lawyer ? Not very much , but it happens here in Spielberg's tale of the boy who never wanted to grow up . Hook is a pretty good film , it was definitely very imaginative and creative story wise . The sets and actors were absolutely perfect for this film ; did you know that Michael Jackson originally wanted to play the role of Peter ? Pretty creepy , huh ? But Robin Williams and Dustin Hoffman were so great together , I really enjoyed their performances . But the only actress I questioned was Julia Roberts as Tink , I'm not so sure if she was the best choice for the role . But that's just me , while the story seemed to drag on a bit , it was actually pretty good . Peter is a bit of a grown up who just can't seem to have fun in life , he misses his son's baseball games , doesn't spend much time with the family , and is always focused on work . But when he and his wife visit England with their kids to see Wendy , the lady who raised Peter when he was an orphan , his kids are kidnapped by Captain James Hook who wants to challenge Peter , but when Tink takes Peter back to Neverland , he needs major convincing that he is Peter Pan and is given three days to do so to get back his children . The Lost Boys try their best to make Peter bang-or-aign once again with them and that he'll get his kids back while learning the importance of youth . Hook is over all a good film that I would recommend to people . It's not at all a bad film , it has good drama in it along with great comedy . Most people love the dinner scene between Peter and Rufio , mine is Captain Hook explaining to Peter's kids why parents don't love children . Dustin's delivery of " I want to potty , I want a cookie " was just so perfect and funny . This is a good family film that I think you'll like , it's just an honest film with a fun story .
Not my favorite Disney movie , but Meeko is so cute !	This is where it all began . When Disney started going down hill . It's sad , no ? The movie isn't bad , but they didn't add that extra ingrediant of Disney magic . Of course , the history is altered to their standards . So , that was kind of a bummer . The kids don't learn too much about our true history . But , what can you do ?
Born to be wild	Ah , the 60's . A time of peace , love , hippies , drugs , sex , freedom , etc . In my film class I took a couple years back , we watched a clip of this movie during our " Decade of the 60's " week . I learned that only a few good movies really came out of the 60's , like the Graduate and West Side Story . But it wasn't that big of a decade for films . " Easy Rider " was trashed at the time and considered a trailer trash type of film . This day , it's considered an art form and a classic to many . When I finally watched the whole movie , I couldn't really pay attention . The whole thing to me felt like an acid trip . I know it was the 60's , but man , this was out there . I'm not really sure if this is a classic to be remembered . All I know is that his movie is about getting high , getting drunk , Jack Nicholson , and riding motorcycles . : D So for the movie appreciators , this is for you . Otherwise , I don't think many would really enjoy this film .
Predictable but fun	I'm not sure why , I never had The Pacifier on my mind or had an interest to watch it , but when I passed the movie at Hollywood Video , I figured maybe I could just give it a shot since it was a free rental . My friend also said that she loved The Pacifier and that I would be into it if I loved Kindergarten Cop . I have to say that while The Pacifier was extremely predictable , it was a fun little family movie that has a few good laughs here and there . Shane Wolfe is a Navy SEAL , he is very serious about his work and very dedicated to discipline . His mission was to protect a professor who created a program called GHOST and unfortunately the professor is killed , but he disk is still out , so Shane is asked to protect the professor's family and try to retrieve the disc , otherwise he has become the new nanny and may find it a bit harder disciplining tough strong guys to 5 horrific children . The Pacifier , well , you can predict one scene after the next , but this movie was intended for kids , so it's all good . I loved the scene where the Russian nanny tried to leave and Shane freaked out and tried to grab her from leaving the door , honestly , if that scene didn't make you laugh , check your funny bone . To those who haven't seen the film yet , go ahead and give it a chance , it's a good family film .
Uhhh . . .	Well , all I have to say is that this was an interesting movie to watch . My friend had told me about this movie and how much it grossed her out with the opening scene , and I was in the mood for a good gory flick . I actually in some sick way enjoyed this movie and I think other horror fans or a small fan base for the Dentist movies will like it . Basically , Dr . Feinstone is back in business , he has escaped from the mental institution and moves to " Paradise " , a small town where people seem to enjoy each other's company and where they know everyone . He has changed his name to Allen Craine , he moves into a guest house and meets a beautiful girl , Jaime . But when his past slowly starts to creep back up , he starts to go crazy again . He does his best to pull it together , but he ends up murdering the local dentist and becomes the town's new doctor . But when people start to find out more and his ex wife comes back , his madness goes too far and makes him go just mad . The effects are kind of lame , but honestly , it was a fun and gory movie to watch . It's just your typical horror movie , but with some fun twists and a new plot . After all , 45 million Americans are afraid of the dentist , I'd say this movie might help that number grow .
Good film , but the Saw films are starting to get old and need a break	After seeing Saw III in the theater last year , I was interested on how they would continue the story since the end of the third Saw , they killed the jigsaw killer . So I saw it last night with my friend and afterwards I felt like this was just an average thriller with the ultimate gore . Now , don't get me wrong , I love a good gory film , but it seems lately like that's all that Saw now has to offer . Just a good gross out gag , so it's just getting old . While the story worked pretty well , there were still some things that were a bit confusing to me . Some of the film either moved too fast or moved too slow . For the most part I think I got most of the film , just the story could have been edited better I think . But I believe that if you are a fan of the Saw films , you will not be disappointed with this story . Now that John is dead , the detectives are trying to figure out how the jigsaw murders are still happening . Officer Rigg in particular is still looking for his fellow policeman , Eddie . His obsession with saving him gets him into more trouble than it's worth when he is picked to save Eddie's life who is hanging over a block of ice with a chain around his neck . Rigg has 90 minutes to find them and save them . We also take a deeper look into the world of John , the jigsaw killer , we find out why he became the jigsaw killer and who he was before he became so and who he's recruited to carry on his work . Saw IV will not disappoint you on the gore or scary moments , story wise , I think they over all carried it pretty well . I think the way the film was made though makes it a little much for your head to handle . Either that or I think that these films just need a slight break ; I was telling my friend how funny it will be when our future kids will say to us " I'm going to see Saw 28 with my friends " , and feeling so old just because we've already been through now four of them . Anyways , for the Saw fans , it's a film worth watching , but if you're just looking for a movie to watch , I don't know if you'll get into it .
More family than pure comedy	Bruce Almighty , the comedy that was released with Jim Carrey was more of a pure comedy type of movie . We now have the sequel Evan Almighty starring Steve Carell . With Steve's promising career , mostly in comedy , this seemed like a guaranteed hit . I didn't get to see it over the summer unfortunately , but I figured I would wait for the rental since it wasn't getting the best reviews . So I watched this movie tonite and I have to say that this film was cute and entertaining , worth one watch , but it was more of one of those cheesy comedies that didn't seem to please as much as the original with Jim Carrey . Steve did fine , I think it was just the story and how it turned too much into one of those typical family comedies that overdoes it on the cheese . Evan is a news anchor turned politician who is about to make it in high ranks in Washington , D . C . But his family life isn't going so well , he makes promises to his kids all the time , and doesn't keep them . One day while he prays to God that he needs help and wants to change the world , God does come to him and tells him there will be a flood and he needs a man who will build an ark for animals and humans to survive . Of course , Evan doesn't believe him , but eventually gets it on how important he is , so he and his family come together to build the ark . But his career is going to have to take the back seat if he's going to get this done on time . Evan Almighty , don't get me wrong , it was a cute movie , I would agree while it should have been more of a pure comedy , it was a good family film . Like I said , I just wished it could've been more like the first Almighty where it was just the most wrong guy for the job type of a movie than a man who needs to get close to his family . But , it's all good , the cast looked like they actually enjoyed making this film and I loved the 40 year old virgin reference , cheesy little laugh . So Evan Almighty is worth a watch , but I wouldn't go for another watch again for a while .
Rush Hour 3 was a lot of fun , but it is getting kind of old	Rush Hour 3 , the sequel I've been waiting for , it's been 6 years since our last Rush and I couldn't wait to join Chris and Jackie once again for their awesome comedy and action . I saw Rush Hour 3 a few days ago and I have to say that while I was definitely entertained , this still didn't feel the same as the previous Rush Hour films . It had great comedy , don't get me wrong , Chris Tucker is still so much fun to watch on screen . Jackie adds a little more comedic edge to his role this time ; but it seemed like Jackie and Chris are not clicking as well as they used too . It almost seemed like they were meeting for the first time watching them on screen . Not only that , but this movie seemed more rushed and the story wasn't as well developed as the first two Rush Hour films . In the beginning it seems like Lee and Carter are not on good terms , Carter seems to have broken off Lee's relationship to his ex girlfriend , Isabella . After an assassination attempt on China's Ambassador , Lee and Carter are about to face the Triads ' , China's deadliest gang . They are looking for a list in Paris and Lee and Carter are on the case to find a beautiful woman who might hold the secret . Things get a little more tricky when Lee has to his own brother who is the leader of the Triads ' . Rush Hour 3 is all in good fun , standing on it's own , if this was the first Rush Hour , it would have been fine somewhat , but just comparing it to the first two films , this wasn't as good . But that's just my opinion . But I think if you loved the first two Rush Hour films , you should see this , it's still a fun film and has great comedy , there is a little less action , a warning in advance , but it's all good if you are looking for a fun film for the end of the summer .
There's no point to it	I just didn't understand how this movie was so raved about in 2003 , I remember it was up for some Oscars , I believe , and I heard about it from several people on how dark it was but interesting . Well , I rented it the other day and decided to give it some time to think about it , still I came up with the same conclusion , it had no point . Normally most movies have a moral or some kind of meaningful conclusion , I'm not saying that some films could be different , and we've had those types of films , but still this one just made absolutely no sense . I think because the pace was just so slow and really couldn't get to the point , I lost interest . Cristina has just lost her husband and her two daughters in a horrible hit and run accident , realizing that she would loose her husband due to massive brain damage , she lets him go and donates his heart to another man who is dying and needs a heart transplant , Paul . Paul looks her up and instantly falls for her despite being in a loveless marriage , he would do anything for Cristina , including killing the ex con who is now a religious freak who killed her family and part of her life . There's more to the story , but that is the summed up version of pretty much what it is . The acting was not bad at all , in fact I would say that is very decent , it was the story and how it was edited that didn't work for me . I think the story had some kind of meaning that could have been better explored or told in more sincere way . Doesn't make any sense I know , but I would just warn you that this movie is somewhat a waste of time .
Zucker looses his originality	Now on Scary Movie 3 , may I say I was very pleased to see that over all , most enjoyed the third installment , but when I talked to people about the movie most say they hated it and preferred the original Scary movie . So , I think that Zucker tried to channel some of the Wayne's brother's humor and it ended up backfiring . While there are some great and hilarious moments , from the Tom Cruise appearance on Opera to the Million Dollar Baby boxing scene , and just more than a few laughable lines , there were some things though , that just didn't work for me . Potty humor , come on , are we in the 5th grade ? It was OK when I was in high school and beyond that , it was OK , but let's be honest , it's over done and let's just say it , done ! Also , the very amusing joke of bumping into something or running into something is funny , but when it's done over and over again in the same scene and the third movie , it looses it's originality . While I'd recommend this movie for a few laughs , this was not my favorite Scary Movie .
Very predictable , but it's something that you can enjoy if in the right mood	Yes , this is very much a cheese ball of a movie that you expect more fun since it has two decent comedic actors Ben and Jennifer . While the whole story is just predictable and I felt that Ben and Jennifer were not the right match for each other , I think there is a way to find that this film can be fun to watch . I don't know , maybe because I was glad it did not have it's regular cliché ending that most romantic comedies do , but not saying that it's all original . You've seen these endings before people , if you've seen one romantic comedy , you've pretty much seen them all . So there's nothing much to spoil . While the director , John Hamburg , brought us the delightful and original comedy of Zoolander , I think he felt that this was going to be original and a twist on your classic romantic comedy , which he did not fulfill . So , honestly , wither you want to see this movie or not , it's up to you . I'm not sure wither or not I'd recommend , because it has your cliché's of a comedy : the up tight but willing to change guy , the free spirit girl , the nagging parents , the gay best friend , a cute animal to steal scenes from two accredited actors , and you favorite scenes from every romantic comedy you've ever seen .
Good fun , but it wasn't exactly what I was expecting	Naturally most fans of The Nightmare Before Christmas who saw this trailer were interested in seeing Igor , it was the dark humor we craved around Halloween , not the typical safe humor used in most children's movies . I couldn't wait to see Igor , we have an awesome cast and what seems like a great story that was made for entertainment . So I saw this opening day with great hopes , but I left the theater a little disappointed , while it's a cute movie and is fun to watch at times , this was technically a failure when it comes to what I was expecting . I thought this was going to be funny and just a delight to watch , but it turned out to be predictable , the animation was mediocre and the humor at times was a little off key with the story . I'm not saying this movie was a total disaster , it's cute , it's worth the look , but like I said , the story doesn't add a special touch to make Igor stand out against other animated films . Igor is . . . well , and Igor , he's been trained specially for this job to serve a master who doesn't have the screws tightened quite right in his head . Igor doesn't want to be an assistant , he wants to be an inventor , and after one of his master's inventions kills him , Igor sees an opportunity to create the most evil invention of all and finally be respected as an inventor , with the help of his two friends / practice inventions , he creates Eva , a female Frankenstein type of monster who's not exactly monstrous . After trying to brain wash her , she gets the wrong message and wants to become an actress , Igor figures a way for her act evil and win the competition , but realizes that maybe having a heart of gold isn't so bad . But he still has one more problem , another inventor who is trying to take over will do anything to get ahold of Eva and rule the city . This movie is worth the look , I'd just say if you're going to go to the theater for it , I'd recommend a matinée , it's fun for your kids and I will say that there are some fun laughs and despite the story's predictability , it's still enjoyable . You really enjoy the comic relief from the two friends that Igor has , a cat who is immortal and a brain who isn't the smartest tool in the box , but they had great chemistry and gave the scenes some relief on the humor . I did like the movie , but it just didn't stand out to me , seeing it once was enough , I was really pulling for this movie , we need a new fun Halloween movie , but unfortunately Igor doesn't cut the cake .
Pfft ! I can see why it wasn't nominated for best picture	I was excited about seeing Dreamgirls , especially after seeing the Oscar nods it got . But I still wasn't too sure about Jennifer Hudson's win , after all , before I saw this film , I saw Babel , and the Hispanic actress who was nominated I felt totally deserved the award . But how can you judge before seeing what Jennifer Hudson's raved about performance was all about . Now I have to start off with that actually this was a good film , but you know what ? It was average , nothing thrilling or original came out of it . It's your typical rise and fall story that had nothing special or had no spark . Jennifer's performance was good for a first time , but I still wasn't too thrown over it . The story is just so abused and too used by so many writers . Curtis is looking for a backup group for his famous singer , James Early . He finds the Dreamettes , three beautiful and strong black women , he also becomes involved with one of them . Slowly they rise to the top , but Effie , the girl is involved with is not exactly " thin " or that " appealing " to a younger crowd , so with her girlfriends in the group , her brother , and her new boyfriend , Curtis , they vote her out of the group and the Dreamettes become huge , but the joke is on Curtis when Effie gets a second chance . The performances were the key that got raved about most in the film , now I have to say that they were good , but honestly , it was nothing beyond good . I don't have anything against Jennifer Hudson , but I am very upset with all the publicity she is getting now for one film and an Oscar that I believe doesn't belong to her , but I know there are some that wouldn't agree with me . Eddie didn't thrill me either , I've actually seen him in better , but I have to admit the only performance I was actually , and surprisingly , impressed with was Beyonce Knowles , she has come a long way . So , I'm not sure if I would recommend this film , if you wanna watch it , go ahead , but don't expect too much .
Surprsingly cute , I've seen this type of movie before , but it was very charming and sweet	I wasn't too interested in seeing Must Love Dogs , it didn't seem very unique or like the type of film that I like . It's rare that I get into a heavy chick flick , they're usually too sappy for me , but Must Love Dogs had a certain appeal to it . Yeah , it was a bit predictable , but it still had some moments that were really funny and a lot of things that we could all relate too in this complicated world of dating . Dianne and John had great chemistry and looked so great together and the story was very decent . Sarah is a divorced woman who's family is just pressuring her like crazy to go out and start dating again . They keep setting her up with men , but nothing works until her sister puts a profile up on a website of Sarah , after horrible date after horrible date , she finally meets Jake . Anothe divorced man who is absolutely caught by Sarah's vulnerability , but she's not ready for him yet until she realizes maybe that he is what she should be looking for in life . Must Love Dogs is great because it has comedy , romance , and just some very fun moments . I loved how she accidentally met her father through the dating ad's , that was a great scene seeing that awkwardness between them . I loved the beginning of where and how you can meet people . This is just a fun little movie to watch , I would recommend it if you're looking for a cute film to watch for the afternoon .
" It's you ! Handjob ! "	The moment I saw the preview for Hancock , this just looked like the most ridicules movie that could be made , I was sure that it was going to flop or get horrendous reviews . But after talking to people who saw it , it was half / half of either they loved it or hated it , so I guess this was just a movie I had to see for myself . So I watched it yesterday , I am dumbfounded , I'm the half / half , I loved it and I hated it . I felt like the beginning was just silly and rushed , not to mention that the villain was just under developed and didn't have any depth to why he was so bad . But however , I did like the little twist they had , which I refuse to give away , even though I did predict it sadly , it's one of those things you'll have to see . But I also did enjoy the originality , it's not just a typical super hero movie with all the stereotypes , it was John Hancock ( which by the way should've taken place in Chicago after it's famous building ) . John Hancock is a homeless bum who just has a bad attitude along with a horrible drinking problem , he also is different , he is a super hero . The only problem ? He causes a lot of damage when he " saves the day " and doesn't care what people think . But when a failing advertiser , Ray Embroy , is saved by John , Ray offers John a chance to look good and be the ultimate super hero . But Ray's wife , Mary , isn't so excited and has a little secret about her and John . But Ray is determined and will make sure that Hancock is a great super hero for the whole city . Hancock is over all an alright film , it's not bad by any means , but I feel like it could have been so much more with a better script . Not to mention some of the camera angles were a little extreme , there were times where I thought the cameraman was on a tilt-a-whirl and I felt sick . But for the story I'll admit that it was original and fun at times , Will Smith is a good actor , I will always admit that , but it seems like his movies ( which are always released around the fourth of July , you notice ) have become like a love letter to him and how great he is . Hancock is worth the look , but I'd recommend the rental , it's just a notch under a great blockbuster .
Meh , it was OK	Now , I recently bought the book " 1001 Movies you must see before you die " and Body Heat was in it . I heard a lot about this movie everywhere , " I love the 80's " , two of my movie books , and my mom . Mostly good reviews , but to be honest I wasn't that thrilled . While the plot and acting a very good , the whole story just didn't work for me . It got to be a little bit too over dramatic and just a little silly . Some things just also seemed to be unrealistic . Like the ending didn't make any sense to me , maybe I need to watch it again , but I'm not too interested . This is a newly updated Double Indemity , and Kathleen Turner is the new Femme Fatale , but I just couldn't get into the movie .
Good , but I wasn't impressed	Terms of Endearment is a well received movie that won critic's and audience's hearts in the 80's , not to mention how it snabed several Oscars including Best Picture of 1983 , but I'm not so sure if it still has the same effect for today . While there were some moments that were funny and touching , the movie seemed to me like it was not well edited , everything went extremely fast and I couldn't keep up with what time the movie was going , it went from a year to next shot 10 years later without us even knowing . But I have to tell you that the only thing that really won my heart over was Jack Nicolson's character , Garrett , he was so charming and funny , I just absolutely fell in love with him . Emma and her mother Aurora are completely different , Aurora seems to really dislike Emma's husband , Flap , and Emma wants her mother to fall in love again . When Aurora notices the next door neighbor , Garrett , she starts to date him and eventually feels the scary emotion of love . Emma is going through a tough marriage though when she realizes how much of her life she's given up , but she is diagnosed with cancer and then soon comes to realize how everything she has was wonderful and she would never do it over again . Some of the emotions in this movie were just not well explained and the time that was expanded throughout the film was not edited well . Those were my main complaints , I'm sure you'll know what I mean when you see this movie . But still Shirly and Jack did a terrific job , they worked so well together and were just lovely . Unfortunately , this movie has just lost it's effect throughout time , it was the 80's , what can you say ?
Sometimes funny and sometimes too offensive	I have never seen the original " Lady Killers " , so I cannot compare the movie to the first , so I have to judge this movie on it's own standards . " The Ladykillers " was over all a decent film , but wasn't well developed and in my opinion was a waste of some terrific actor's talents . I mean , while it has it's laughs and interesting plot lines , it just didn't really give me anything . Tom Hanks , everyone knows this and will always admit , he is one of the greatest actors in Hollywood . It seems like he could take on any role , but seems out of place in this one . He didn't have much to work with , the other actors who played his sidekick criminals , didn't really match with his performance . You didn't really feel for any of the characters , except for the old lady and Tom Hank's character , because none of the characters were well developed or were just plain not likable . This movie has too many obscenities that are very unnecessary , including the " n " word , in my tastes unless it is necessary to the plot is not needed and I don't like it . I mean , over all , if you have nothing better to do , I might recommend this , but looking at the original on the IMDb page , I might just want to go see that and forget this one ever happened .
Be 2 or not to be 2	OK , every trailer I have seen on TV for Hamlet 2 , you see the big reviews of " Hilerious ! " or " One of the year's best comedies ! " , so I got to see Hamlet 2 yesterday and this was seriously one of the strangest films I have seen and had the strangest humor . While it did make me laugh , I will never deny it that , but it's so over the top that there are some moments where you just raise one eye brow and scratch your head . This was written by one of the writers from South Park , normally you'd think that means it's going to be a mega hit with great comedic writing , however some of the movie drags on and some of the jokes are also more scary than funny . But I'm not completely dissing Hamlet 2 , there are some genuinely funny moments that really made me laugh out loud . The story is pretty ridicules , but it's much better than most comedies that are very predictable and have no originality . Dana Marschz is a failed actor turned high school drama teacher , a drama teacher that makes horrible plays , he has passion for it , but has no idea how to get the motivation from his students . He has a crazy alcoholic wife at home with some random guy who is their room mate , and his drama program is being threatened in being taken away due to financial set backs . But Dana isn't giving up , he and his class are going to perform a play that he has written , Hamlet 2 , the most offensive play in the world where nothing is off limits and he doesn't care what people say , he and the students over come all the protest to put on this very strange play . Hamlet 2 , let's just put it this way , you really need a certain sense of humor to get into it , this is not your typical comedy that everyone is going to laugh at . I'm very open to different comedies and know when there are moments to laugh , but I also know when there are some things that are just a little over the top . Steve Coogen is a decent lead actor , but there wasn't anything so special that stood out about him . So over all , I would say if you are open minded to comedies , you might get into this , there are some good parts , but like I said this has some very strange and demented jokes , so I'm just on the line with liking it and forgetting about it .
I thought it was cute	My friend and I were looking for a movie to see this weekend and Mad Money was the only movie that looked like fun . When we finished the movie , the audience was happy and we were happy , this was a fun and cute movie . So I have to say that I am very very surprised by this harsh rating on IMDb , I mean , a 4 . 4 ? ! You have got to be kidding me , this is by no means movie of the year , but for what it was , this was just a fun comedy to watch . There wasn't any major problems with this movie that deserves that kind of a rating that makes it look like the first major flop of the year . Diane Keaton , Queen Latifah , and Katie Holmes were absolutely adorable together and had great chemistry . They made the story an Oceans Eleven for the girls , sounds like such a chick flick , but I think this is one that most could actually enjoy . Bridget and her husband , Dan are in major debt , really bad debt , like 282 , 000 dollars in debt . They are about to loose everything they own , so Bridget gets a job as a janitor for the financial bank . When she notices the ultimate torture of how they shred worn out money , she gets a clever idea with the help of two other girl employees , Nina and Jackie , to find a way to break the system and get that money to get out of their poor situations . Once they get what they need , Bridget is so satisfied with how smooth everything went , she wants more and they go for it , but they should learn not to get so greedy since someone is on their tale . Mad Money is a chick flick , but it's one of the rare one's that I liked . I didn't think there was anything wrong with this film . I think they could have explained the situation with the boss of the bank a little better , I don't know if he was in on it or what , but it's something that could slide I think . Queen Latifah was just so funny and Diane Keaton was a perfect choice for Bridget , Katie Holmes was pretty decent for the comic relief . Please don't take the rating on IMDb seriously , I think that Mad Money was just a fun little comedy that deserves a better chance .
There's nothing better than watching two Oscar nominated actors on screen with two has been TV stars	After seeing some pretty harsh reviews on Wild Hogs , I was a bit hesitant to see the movie . But I couldn't resist , we have some awesome actors here : John Travolta , William H . Macy , Ray Liotta , Marisa Tomei , and . . . that's it . Well , I'm in no way criticizing Tim Allen's acting , he was actually pretty decent ; I've never been a fan of Martin Lawerence , but I didn't mind him so much in the film . I watched Wild Hogs last night and I really enjoyed it . While it was a little flat in some areas , it still brought me a few laughs and I really enjoyed the characters . The story you have to admit is a fun one , just because who hasn't seen the middle aged guys trying to re-kindle their youth ? So it was a blast seeing these great actors do this story together . Bobby , Dudley , Doug , and Woody are all best pals and have been since college . They have a biker gang together called the Wild Hogs , it's the one escape from their typical and predictable lives as husbands , fathers , or just being single and depressed . One day after Woody's bitter divorce and loosing his money , he suggests a road trip to re-kindle the guy's old ways . But from minute one , the trip isn't working , all the guys try to plan the trip instead of being spontaneous , they go to the bathroom every 5 minutes , and are constantly accused of being gay . Then to top things off , they meet a rival gang and Woody accidentally blows up their bar and are now being chased across the country while the boys try to be so wild . Wild Hogs is actually a fun comedy that I'm sure you'll get a few laughs from , while I was hoping for a little bit more , it still was all good . Considering that it could have flopped , I think it worked . For me I loved William H . Macy's character the most , Dudley , he was just so cute when he acted tough , it's just the whole point of it's William H . Macy . But he's awesome , so are the other actors . I would recommend Wild Hogs , it's just a fun little comedy that I'm sure you'll get a couple laughs from .
You know the saying " Time flies by fast when you're having fun " ? Well , that's not working for Adam Sandler .	I was really excited to see Click , it got so many great reviews , including some from my friends who just loved this movie . So , I was looking forward to the rental , because let's be honest , this movie was one of those you'd save your money for . But still , even though I wasn't expecting too much , this turned into a wonderful movie that we all can relate too . It kind of reminded me of the story " A Christmas Carol " , except no Christmas , and updated into a remote , I'm sure most would agree . See , Adam is having a hard time spending time with his family because of his hectic work schedule , but when he bumps into a man who sells him a universal remote , he discovers that this remote controls EVERYTHING in his life , including his family and friends . He just plays at first by fast forwarding fights with his wife or chores , not to mention having fun at work making fun of his boss . But it gets serious when he doesn't want to deal with time and decides to fast forward to a promotion at work that takes him a year past his life , not to mention , the remote breaks and keeps fast forwarding him to the future unintentionally . Life moves by pretty fast , if you don't stop and look around once in a while , you could miss it . - Ferris Bueller . It's so true when it comes to this movie and how precious our time is with our friends and family . Sometimes we do need to slow down and make sure we truly appreciate what little time we have .
So stupid , that it is actually funny	I didn't know what to expect from Kung Pow : Enter the Fist , from the cover , it looked pretty stupid , but my boyfriend said that it was worth a look and that it was pretty funny if I was in the right mind set . But we watched it last night and even if I was in a normal mind set , I thought it was a pretty funny movie . I think I just needed one of those stupid comedies in my night , the one's where you don't have to think , just watch and laugh . Kung Pow : Enter the Fist was interesting where Steve Oedekirk took these old martial arts films and just made them into his own amusing comedy . I think the reason why this movie was so funny besides the ridicules voices was because Steve really had a passion for the film and his writing . Who among us has not made fun of the old martial arts films ? It's great to see someone else bring it to life , even it at times it was a bit stupid . The Chosen One is one of the finest martial arts masters in the world , but his family was murdered when he was just a baby . When he meets the villain who murdered his family , he wants revenge . But he discovers that he needs more strength , with the help of his martial arts teacher , the love of his life that makes strange noises , and his wood chuck nun chucks , he learns the way of the martial arts and now must face the evil villain that plays popular music while defeating his opponents . Kung Pow : Enter the Fist is stupid , but I'm sure you'll get a couple laughs out of it . Like I said the voices are so over the top that you can't help but at least laugh at the movie if not with it . Steve and the rest of the crew looked like they had so much fun making this movie and they didn't take themselves too seriously . I really loved a lot of the spoofs they had like The Lion King , it was so out there , but it was really funny . Just give this movie a chance , I'm sure you'll have a fun time watching it if you just wanna laugh .
One of the better ghost stories I've seen in a while	Now my mom and I are really funny , our fears are complete opposite , ventriloquist dummies freak her out so badly , but I never had that fear . Never saw the point , I thought they're just dolls , what's the big deal ? But for some reason this movie freaked me out more than you could stand it , I watched it in the dark and had to turn the light on for a few minutes just to take a deep breath . This movie was so scary and was so intense , I was incredibly impressed . But , there is a but , there were a few flaws that the movie had that I will discuss in a moment . Jamie and his wife are about to have a normal romantic night , but when a mysterious package comes to their door holding a creepy looking ventriloquist dummy , Jamie's wife is murdered brutally . He goes home to bury her and find out what happened to his wife trying to prove his innocence from the police who think he killed her . In the mean time he finds out a horrific story behind his family's dark history of the death of Mary Shaw , the woman who couldn't live without her dolls . Dead Silence is incredibly scary and the story worked , but there were a few confusing moments , like the doll not being taken in by the police for evidence , and the ending in some ways still didn't make any sense . But I would really recommend this movie for a good scare , it was good to know that some director still get it , even as cliché'd as horror movies could be , he made everything work and Dead Silence will be a haunting masterpiece for years to come .
Left with questions , but it's an effective thriller	I remember in 2000 seeing some of What Lies Beneath , but I never got to finish it , so I figured I would rent the movie recently . I just watched it last night and I have to say that actually this movie sent chills down my spine , I was really impressed with how intense it was . Michelle and Harrison were absolutely perfect for these roles , I couldn't imagine anyone else in their parts . My only problem with the film though was some of the questions were left unexplained , like the bloody shoe next door and how quickly the situation of Michelle's husband's situation was with the girl that was haunting her , but when you see the film , you'll see what I mean . Claire and Norman have just moved into a new home where their daughter has gone off to college and they are all alone . They seem like an extremely loving couple and that they have everything under control . But things get scary when Claire starts to hear voices and see ghostly images around the house . Norman thinks she's crazy of course , Claire first suspects her neighbor of murdering his wife , but then she realizes she is wrong and that her husband has a deadly secret that he's kept from her and now it's after her . What Lies Beneath was a great thriller and is a guarantee chill if you watch it at night with the lights turned off . The acting was great and the atmosphere was perfect , the director really had the feel of the film and what it should of been . Just the script needed more work I think , it just left me with some questions , I don't mind usually that much about that stuff , but with this film I felt it was kind of important . Not to mention I didn't like the ending with the computer effects , but I'm letting that go . Over all , I would recommend it , it's a scary thriller , but be prepared for unanswered questions .
Am I bonkers ? I thought it was kind of stupid	Nicolas Cage , I feel like an addictive gambler when it comes to this man , because there are times where he has some really great movies ( i . e . Face / Off ) then he has moments where I wonder if he was drinking when he accepted other movies ( i . e . Wicker Man ) . He has some really great acting moments , but it seems like his movies lately , he just looks tired and like he stayed up the whole night memorizing his lines not realizing he hasn't had any sleep for 6 weeks . I don't know , I'm not quite sure why this has a high rating right now , but we'll see in the next few weeks , because honestly I wasn't all that thrilled with Knowing . From the trailer this looked really exciting , but instead we got a movie that just took itself too seriously . I thought it was mainly just poor writing for the story and the characters . In 1959 , a competition is held amongst the students of a new elementary school to celebrate its opening . The winning plan , from student Lucinda Embry , is to bury a time capsule containing the students ' drawings of the future to be opened 50 years later in 2009 . She is prevented from finishing her image , which is actually a series of seemingly random numbers , and goes missing during the ceremony . Her teacher later finds her in a gym closet frantically scratching the remaining numbers on the door . Fifty years later , the time capsule is opened and the pictures are handed down to the new generation of students . Caleb , the son of MIT professor and astrophysicist John Koestler , receives Lucinda's envelope . While initially dismissing them as random numbers , John accidentally discovers that the numbers have accurately predicted the dates , death tolls , and locations of every major disaster in the last 50 years ; three of the events have not yet occurred . Decoding and discovering that one of the three may lead to the end of the world . Is this a movie that you have to see in the theater ? There is one scene that only the big screen can do justice and that was the airplane crash scene , even though it was unrealistic it was great to watch . I just love how Nicolas Cage reacts to it , he goes to " save " the people who are burning and one person passes him screaming in flames and Nic just says " hey ! " , what exactly was he planning on saying to him ? Like " HEY ! Just to let you know , you're on fire " . I thought the ending was weak and there wasn't enough character development . The story was too serious , while intense , the characters were not real and I felt like the effects got too cheesy at the end . I would say if you're going to see this in the theater , see the matinée , otherwise , just stick with the rental .
Not one of Robert DeNiro's best	I was really looking forward to seeing " Godsend " . When I finally got the opportunity , I rented it immediately . I had high hopes for this movie . I thought it might have been like Gattica . Which I really enjoyed . But I was disappointed . It seemed like this got turned more into a ghost story . Not a science experiment gone bad . Even though it did . The performances are a little flat . Not counting Robert DeNiro . He has a soft spot in my heart . Sorry to the other actors . I wouldn't really recommend " Godsend " . It didn't keep me interested . Nor did it look like it kept anyone else interested on IMDb as well . To those who did enjoy the film , good for you . To each it's own , right ?
It's hard not to laugh honestly	Last night I was looking for a movie to watch and I came across Major Payne , with Damon Waynes as the star . I wasn't too sure if the movie would work , from the looks of the cover , it just looked like an over the top comedy that would have forceful humor . But I have to admit that when I watched it , it actually made me laugh quite a bit . I know that it was a silly movie , but how could you not laugh at these situations ? I just loved the whole introduction to the cadets , how pathetic they were and how they had to face Major Payne . This movie is by no means Oscar material , but it's just a fun little comedy that I'm sure will get you a few laughs . The story is Full Metal Jacket , just the more fun and light version . Major Payne is kicked out of the military after having a few " anger " problems . But he is given a new assignment , to handle a military school with little kids . The kids aren't exactly military material , they're skinny , fat , undisciplined , and over sensitive . It's Major Payne's job to teach these little one's his world of discipline . He drives them crazy , so much so , to the point where they wanna prove themselves and win the trophy against other tougher military schools and prove to Major Payne who's the best troop around . Major Payne is pretty stupid at times , but it was just a fun comedy . I couldn't help but laugh at the part where they hire Bam Bam to beat up Major Payne , it looks like the kids finally won and yet of course , Major Payne wins again . Not to mention when Major Payne was reading one of the kids a bed time story and how graphic he got with it , I know it was a stupid part , but it was just so funny to me . Major Payne is worth a look , I thought it was a cool comedy that put a different twist on boot camps all around the world .
I thought there were just as many laughs and it was a decent sequel	I don't know why the harsh rating , I mean , despite the fact that a few actors were replaced , I thought that Major League 2 was a decent comedy . Separated from the first , I think more people would give it a chance . How could you not laugh at the buddist out fielder ? He was hilarious ! I liked how they showed that most of the guys changed , it was so human and added a real story . The boys are back for the next season , this time Rachel has sold the team to Roger and he is in charge . The boys have all changed though , mainly Rick , who has lost his " wild thing " edge . The boys this time want to make it to the world series , but that's going to be hard since most of them have taken their fame to their heads . Rachel buys the team back and the boys finally decide to get themselves together and get to the world series ! Major League 2 is a good comedy if you just let go of the first one , I know that most don't want to since the first was so original and a great comedy as well , but just give it a shot as it's own movie . It has some really funny moments that I loved a lot . This movie at least deserves to have a better rating than a sorry 4 .
It's pretty good	I wasn't too highly interesting in seeing " Lake Placcid " . But one time it was on HBO , and I had nothing better to do . I watched it and I was a little surprised . It wasn't all that bad . A few cheesy effects , but for the most part effective for what it is . And considering that allegators scare the heck out of me , it helped my review a little . As for the plot , I wasn't to into it . When it comes to sea monster movies , I'll take " Jaws " any day . But , I was really tensed up when one of the guys is in the water and he looks behind him and he is faced with the crocedile . And they just have this staring contest , like who has the most fear ? Over all , I'd recommend if you're just looking for a good scare .
It started off so good and then the genre completely changed	I think this has been the ultimate roller coaster ride , after my boyfriend begged for me to rent Death Proof , which I thought I would hate and he thought he would love , it was the complete opposite , I loved that movie and he hated it . So I was really excited to see Planet Terror , which he didn't wanna see , because he figured if he didn't like Death Proof , why would he like this one ? But I was curious because I heard Planet Terror was better , well he loved it , I just thought it was alright . But we both agreed on one thing , boy did this movie take one gigantic turn . It went from this awesome old-school type of zombie flick to a government action movie and not to mention had the most unbelievable situations . Now don't get me wrong , there are some things that I will always let slide , but Rose McGowan's character was complete B . S . , with her leg , just she learns how to walk with a table leg in the same night that she lost her real leg ? I don't wanna nit pick because at times it was cool , but the story just completely fell apart in the second act . It starts off as a normal night for some , that is until people on the road are being led to a Military Base camp where there is a deadly virus that is turning the people into brain eating zombies . The virus quickly takes over and people are killing each other all over town . But a group of people are going to do their best to survive the night and beat these killer zombies , if it's the last thing that they do . While I absolutely loved the beginning , I mean , it had great gore , a fun script , and some hilarious dark comedy , I just loved the Sargent character played by Michael Biehn ( who I was so happy to see after so many years ) when he tells the group of people " Shoot as many as you can . . . but don't shoot me ! " and then " missing reel " " I can't believe my own deputy shot me ! " , I couldn't stop laughing . Like I said , I thought the first hour was just great , but the ending just took a complete turn from what I thought this film was going to be . But I would still say to give it a look , you will get a few scares and a few good laughs at least . But I'll just stick to Death Proof .
It's funny , in an annoying type of way .	I'm a fan of Steve Martin's . He can be pretty annoying at times , but over all he is a very funny man . I was looking around in my Mom's movie collection , and she recommended this to me , and actually I was glad that I did watch it . I can say that at least I saw it . While there are only a few funny lines and a funny story line , you are going to get at least one laugh . Even if this movie is a little strange and obnoxious at times . If you are a fan of Steve's though , then you might enjoy it a little more . So over all , I think I would recommend it for a good laugh . Other wise , it's an OK movie .
Good Idea vs . Bad Idea	I'm going to start out on the good ideas . Good Idea : Putting together the two scariest aliens together in a battle and humans getting in the middle . How perfect is that ? Examples : King Kong vs . Godzilla , Freddy vs . Jason , and Dracula vs . Frankenstein . It's a plot well used , and very loved by horror fans . The ending was also very cool , which I will not spoil . You'll just have to trust me on that . The characters are pretty well developed and bringing back Lance was a interesting and exciting concept . You have the same feel from the original movies . The best part is that I think the director , he wasn't trying to upstand the original Alien and Predator movies . He knew that they could never be touched and didn't feel the ultimate need for CGI effects . Bad Idea : First off , Antarctica . This is the coldest place on Earth , 50 below zero is summer time in that country . All the explorers wore was one winter coat , and the girl takes her jacket off at the end . She would've froze to death . As along with the others , because one coat would never keep them warm enough . I know that " Alien vs . Predator " was a comic book , but the stories could never realistically be put together . " Alien " was set in the future and in space . " Predator " was set in the jungle and the creature was a man hunter . It being on the side of the humans didn't make much sense . Some very typical and predictable points in the movie were used and very stupid people . Over all , it's not a bad movie to watch , but I wouldn't really watch it again .
It really wasn't all that bad as long as you're not expecting the first movie's excellence	Despite some pretty poor reviews of Basic Instinct 2 , I figured that since I loved the first Basic Instinct , to give the second one a chance . I love Sharon Stone and she was so beautiful and dangerous in the first movie , why not give the sequel a chance ? While it felt just like the first plot did , I thought it was actually over all a good mind f word thriller . I thought the acting wasn't too bad and the story worked , although I have to admit the psychiatrist screaming at the end was a little over the top , but it was a fun movie to watch . Catherine is back and while her and an athlete are in a car getting stoned and having sex , they crash and Catherine gets out in time , but the athlete does not . Catherine is under investigation for murder of the athlete , but since there is not enough evidence for the investigation , so she goes to a psychiatrist , Dr . Glass . But soon he finds himself being seduced into Catherine's world of sex , drugs , and murder , and he's starting to like it ! Basic Instinct 2 is a pretty good thriller and I think people were expecting too much , or at least what the first Basic Instinct was , but believe me , on it's own , the sequel is a fair story that deserves a little more praise . Come on , I know IMDb users have seen a lot worse , and it's Sharon Stone ! How could you hate Sharon ? That excludes Catwoman , but still !
Don't you just love it ?	King Kong vs . Godzilla , it had to happen some time , right ? I mean how many years before this film were people probably pitting them against each other ? I actually like to call this film America vs . Japan , just because I think that this film was Japan's idea , but it was also intended for Americans to watch . But this movie was so much fun to watch just because how funny it was with the lip syncing . It's like the Japanese men coming into King Kong's territory and acting like American tourists was pretty hilarious . I always just loved watching this film as a kid and I think I still do get a kick out of it . Godzilla is once again attacking the city , now obviously since Japan has pretty much tried everything to get rid of him , and they keep on failing , they call upon a bigger giant to help fight him off . They get King Kong , but things may have been over their heads when they take King Kong to Tokiyo and he ends up destroying the city . But eventually him and Godzilla do meet up for the ultimate battle of well , bad clay figurines ? But of course , Tokiyo's buildings are just gonna get destroyed throughout the battle since the people think they had everything under control . King Kong vs . Godzilla is all in good fun and is a cheesy movie to watch . But that's what makes it such a great bad movie , the cheesy lip syncing , the damsel in distress who just can't stop fainting , the music to calm down King Kong , it all just works . I would recommend it if you are a fan of the King Kong or Godzilla movies . This is a pretty fun film to watch , you can even MST3K it to make it an even bigger blast .
The Great Valley Adventure	I finally was able to watch all the Land Before Time sequels , as silly as they may be , I loved the original Land Before Time and I read a lot of these scary comments , I was still curious about them . So I was expecting nothing but trash when it came to the first sequel , granted I know that the singing doesn't really do much for the story and it's a bit stupid , but actually I thought this was a decent family movie that is very enjoyable . It's a great story for the kids , it's harmless and has great morals . The reason I think there's a lot of hate on the sequels is because of the love we all have for the first Land Before Time , but I think this is just a new way for the generation of today to enjoy the same stories we had . Littlefoot and his friends are living happily in their new home , under their families ' watchful eyes . When the gang tries to get to the sheltering grass to play , but land in the quicksand surrounding it , the grownups come and rescue them , then lecture them that night . Cera then tells the others that they need to prove they are independent by running away for a while into the Mysterious Beyond , a location just outside the valley . Before they leave , they notice two egg nappers stealing an egg from Ducky's nest . They chase them into the Beyond , during which a landslide occurs . The egg rolls safely back to the nest , but the five are under the impression that it was destroyed in the landslide . Then , Ducky notices what looks like the egg , only slightly larger . The gang " return " this egg to the Valley , only to find out that the stolen egg and this one are not the same . They decide to hatch it , nonetheless , until the egg hatches , revealing a baby sharptooth . While the others run away , Littlefoot decides he's safe , and tries to raise the hatchling on leaves . When he hears the others calling for help , as the egg nappers Ozzy and Strut are attacking them , he runs to their aid , while " Chomper " follows him . Chomper's shadow frightens the villains away , after which Littlefoot exchanges introductions between Chomper and the others and they accept him . But how is the Valley going to accept a sharp tooth ? You'll have to watch to find out . Yeah , the plot is predictable , the singing isn't necessary , and the story may be a little Barney-like , but don't go into these sequels expecting Citizen Kane . Just have fun with them . I know I'm a sap , but I just loved Chomper and Littlefoot's relationship , it was so adorable the way Chomper just wanted to hang onto Littlefoot and was like his shadow . I felt that this story had a great moral to the kids and personally as an adult I still find it very watchable . These movies are made more so for the kids , so give these films a break , The Land Before Time 2 is a good movie .
Oh , no , Joe !	I think my friends must think I am the biggest freak in the whole world because I was crying after this film . I was so looking forward to seeing Joe Pesci , I mean the man hasn't done a film in almost 8 years , he's one of my favorite actors as well with Robert DeNiro , so this film was so exciting to me . Especially when I heard that Robert had turned down The Departed to work on this film , I could only think of how wonderful this film was going to be , I also promised myself I would never dislike a Robert or Joe film . Joe ! Oh , my God ! I cannot believe how he looked ! It was so strange seeing him so aged and he was only in 2 minutes of the film ! Robert , I just don't understand what encouraged him to do this film . Basically The Good Shepherd is based around the C . I . A . and Matt Damon . He is an agent who as a young boy found his father dead from suicide . But a clip of a man and woman making love keeps being brought up , we're not sure where it's going at first , but we realize there may be something going on deep in Matt's family , he realizes after a letter his father wrote , he has become him , maybe worse . Espcecially since he wasn't a good husband or father , only dedicated to his country and when he took the most important things in his life seriously , that's when it's too late . I so badly wanted to love this film , I really did , but it was just so slow and agonizing to get through with Matt Damon playing the lead , he's a good actor , but he's not leading man material . He is in every scene of this movie , now mind you this is a 3 hour movie , but it seemed like he only had maybe 20 lines , I mean , Robert could've cut some scenes in the film , now it's not that I don't mind a 3 hour movie , but it just wasn't a necessary length since it was mostly dragged out . And Matt just kept on making deep serious looks throughout the film , I just couldn't see him in this role . But I don't know honestly , like I said , so much was built up for me and I over all was pretty disappointed .
A very cute and entertaining family film	My mom has been bugging me to watch Snow Dogs , it's funny because she hates Disney and I'm such a big fan , but these movies are always typical and I had no interest in seeing the movie . But my mom insisted again and again , so I finally went ahead and watched it last night , yeah , it was very silly and predictable , but it was fun to watch because it's such a fun family film . It had cheesy jokes here and there , but they made me laugh , the great thing I that I really liked was that they didn't computer enhance any voices for the dogs , it was just a natural performance for them and it made the story just a little bit more believable . I know everyone keeps claiming that Cuba Gooding , Jr . ruined his career by making these films , but he must be doing something right , because at least he's still getting paid for these films . Ted is your typical Miami guy , he's a dentist , life is pretty decent for him , that is until he finds out that he's adopted . He finds out that his mother lived in Alaska , so he goes up there and finds out that his biological mother died recently , so he meets a girl , Barb , who tells him that his mother left him her house and top race winning dogs . A man , Jack , offers a lousy price for all of them , but he finds out that Jack is his father , and after hearing the story , Ted heads back to Miami . But he learns something different than Jack told him and heads back , but Jack is trapped in the mountains , and now Ted has to learn how to mush through the snow . Snow Dogs is predictable and a common story , but it's all good , it's a cute family film that has a few cute jokes . I just loved the scene where Ted first learns how to mush , and the dogs know how incompetent he is so they play a joke on him and race him through the town while he's taped to the sled . It was silly , but Cuba's look on his face was just priceless . This is a fun little movie that the whole family can enjoy , I recommend it . The rating on IMDb is very harsh , just ignore it , this is a fun film .
" We're doing it for Johnny ! "	I just watched once again " I love the 80's : Strikes Back " and they mentioned in ' 83 The Outsiders , I've been putting off this movie for quite a while , considering how many stars are in this film , I kept on trying to remind myself to rent it , I finally remembered ! This film in a nutshell is West Side Story without the love story , the singing , or the dancing , so in some ways if you got scarred of that , you needn't worry any more . This is an incredible cast that you would never imagine at the time would make it so far in life , like Matt Dillion , Tom Cruise , Emilio Estovez , Rob Lowe , Patrick Swaze , etc . They play " The Outsiders " , just the rebels of the town , but trouble ensues when the preps attack them and in defense one of them accidentally kills one of the preps and a huge rival happens . Over all , I'd say that it's a decent flick , it's a bit dated , but it's very intense and I'd say actually a good movie to watch . It set a bar for these actors and they might not be where they are today , they had some pretty great performances . I do love that line " We're doing it for Johnny ! " . : ) So , go ahead and grab the popcorn for this one !
Nice little movie by Adam and Drew	Ah , those two wacky kids . How we've missed them since " The Wedding Singer " . They do make a cool duo for comedy . " 50 first dates " was a very cute movie . A little too cute for my tastes at times . Sometimes a little more than unrealistic . How many guys would've actually given up on Drew on the second date ? But I would recommend this movie for a date or something . It has a few laughs , sometimes seems a little trying . But you can tell it is an Adam Sandler movie . I would also recommend " The Wedding Singer " if you enjoy " 50 first dates " . I wouldn't mind seeing this movie again .
Did anyone else know a John Tucker ?	The only reason I wanted to see this movie was because I knew a John Tucker in high school , not only that , but I dated him . We're still friends now , but he still talks about all the girls he is dating simultaneously . So , I naturally thought this was a documentary about him . : D Well , I'm kidding . This did look like a crappy movie , therefore I did not want to see this flick . It looked like your typical teen movie and cheesy predictable plot . Yeah , it had that , but I think in some strange way it offered more . I'm just at least seeing something a little more in this flick . Yeah , it had your typical stereotypical teens , and you could predict everything that would happen in the next scene . But still I think in it's own special way , this will win teens over . I don't think this is a bad movie . You have got to admit that you got a good laugh out of John Tucker trying on the lady's underwear , well , you'll have to see it to understand .
Not your average romantic comedy	I don't know for how long , but my mom has been begging me to watch Bandits , I think because I keep telling her how gorgeous Bruce Willis is , she just knows what I will normally like . So , I finally broke down and watched Bandits last night and over all , I'd have to say that I did like it . It was a different kind of story that was refreshing to be honest , it had an interesting story that really has not been done before . It also has some terrific actors not to mention that all present the story very well . Bruce , Billy Bob , and Cate all had a great chemistry that made the story funny and lovable . But for me , as much as I am a fan of Billy Bob and Bruce , I think Cate was the one who stole the movie and really made the story just such a pleasure to watch . Terry and Joe are two bank robber bandits on the run from the law . They're not your average bank robbers , they are charming and usually get their way with robbing every bank . They are also combined the perfect man : Terry is smart and sensitive and Joe is adventurous and spontaneous . One day when they have to meet each other , Terry hijacks a car with a unhappily , depressed married woman , Kate , who begs them if she can stay with them . Joe decides to let her stay , and they both end up falling for her . But she loves them both and is now on the run with them instead of being their hostage . Bandits is just a fun film over all . I'd say that it's enjoyable and tells the story very well , it has some dark humor in it as well that makes it in some ways light hearted and gives you a breath as well as a laugh . Cate was so beautiful and proved that she could also do a comedy as well as she brilliantly acts in drama's . Bruce and Billy Bob were so much fun to watch , especially in their final bank robbery scene , you'll see what I mean , it's a cool ending . I would recommend Bandits , it's a good film with great actors , just sit back and enjoy .
What's with the leading male name ?	" Julian " ? " Julian " ? So , I have heard so much about " American Gigilo " being a sexy movie and it was , don't get me wrong . But then I heard the name " Julie " being said to Richard Gere . Couldn't it have been a more manly , sexy name like : Lance , Dick , or Hermes ? : D OK , just kidding . Over all , " American Gigilo " isn't a bad movie . It's kind of a landmark in the history of film . One of the first major prostitute films . It's kind of interesting to see Richard Gere as the prostitute in this film before " Pretty Woman " . Do you people find it a bit ironic ? : D I did kind of enjoy the movie . That acting was OK and the story over all was alright . But there were a lot of clique's in the film . You can tell that it is pretty well dated . But actually , I think I'd might recommend this film for a watch . Adults only ! Because it is an interesting film and it has a good love story that I think the ladies will enjoy and some action that the guys will like .
Much better !	I watched K-911 first before this movie , I didn't realize that it was a sequel . Not to mention , not a very good one at that . Jim wasn't doing a good job convincing me that he was just as good of a comedian as his brother , he isn't still , but this movie showed a little better of what talent he could have . K-9 was more fun than the sequel , I can tell you that much , because it revolved better around the story . This story shows how Dooley met his K-9 partner , Jerry Lee . As stereotypical as it sounds , Dooley is your typical stands by his own crazy rules type of a cop , he also refuses to get a partner , but eventually decides the best way to do it is to get a cop dog . Figures that the dog would be easier to command and he'd be in charge . He is also trying to bust a drug run and his girlfriend gets involved , unintentionally . He finds out that Jerry Lee proves himself more useful than Dooley takes him for . Over all , I'd say this is a fun little movie to watch on a Saturday afternoon . It has some fun humor and cute moments where you just automatically fall in love with Jerry Lee , I guess Dooley isn't such a bad guy after all . Believe me when I say to skip the sequel and stick to K -
Kind of a disappointment	I wasn't really too interested in seeing The Reaping , but it looked like it might be worth a watch , so my friend and I saw it last night and both him and I agreed , it was kinda predictable and not that entertaining . Hilary Swank is an incredible actress and this seemed to be a step down for her . While it has some creepy moments , it wasn't anything to be thrilled over , it just could haven been better or more scary . The acting was alright , the story could have been more clever , but I do have to admit the effects were pretty cool , sometimes a little hokey , but over all they did a good job on the " destruction " of the Earth . Katherine is a scientist who used to be a Christian missionary , but when she lost her husband and child to a plague , she lost her faith as well . But when a town starts to witness the reaping , the end of the world through God's wrath , they blame it on a little girl , but Katherine is sure she can prove through science that it's nothing to worry about . But she starts to find out slowly how this may not just be something to forget about and the prophecy just might be true . It's not a recommendation for the theater , it's more of a rental , I'm just warning you that it's not a movie to get thrilled over and it's a disappointment considering all the advertisement that it got . Hilary made a mistake taking this film , it wasn't creepy and it doesn't really get your mind thinking . Seriously , just wait for the rental , you'll thank me later .
Not as funny as I remember	The Waterboy is one of those movies that I really loved as a kid , I was 12 years old when this movie came out and I thought it was just the most hilarious movie I had ever seen . So growing up I re-watched it thinking that I would still enjoy the movie as much as I did when I was younger . But honestly I wasn't laughing as much as I did when I was 12 , I think because it was for the most part it was just junior high humor . Is The Waterboy a funny movie ? Yeah , I'm not going to lie , I still got a few good laughs out of it ; it's just baffling to me that a grown man could make millions of dollars while making baby voices , that's the power of Adam Sandler . Bobby Boucher , a pretty stupid , stuttering , water boy with anger issues due to constant teasing and his mother's excessive sheltering . He was the water boy for the University of Louisiana Cougars or the past 18 years , but the players tormented him , and the team's head coach , Coach Red Beaulieu , fired him for disrupting his team's practices . He later goes to Coach Klein , coach of the Mud Dogs , and volunteers to work as the team's water boy for free after seeing the filthy water that the coach provides his players . During his first few hours of being waterboy for the Mud Dogs , one of the players spits into the water can . A flashback is then seen when the waterboy was a young kid working for the Cougars . Coach Beaulieu refuses the right for the waterboy to retaliate against one of his players for spitting in the cooler . Coach Klein notices his anger problem and encourages Bobby to stand up for himself instead of letting the players walk all over him . After Grenouille , the team's captain taunts him , Bobby then sees flashbacks of the people that also made his life a living hell . Bobby then effortlessly runs onto the field , grunting and growling in sheer anger and tackles Grenouille , shocking the whole team and prompting Coach Klein to put him on the field , with positive results . Despite his overprotective mother's disapproval , he secretly continues to play football , and also secretly goes to school . He uses his anger to tackle the opposing players by pretending they're the people who made fun of him throughout his life . He quickly becomes one of the most feared linebackers in college football and love interest of Vicki Vallencourt . While The Waterboy is stupid in a lot of moments , over all it's just a harmless comedy that is just for fun . I still love quoting certain lines to it , especially when Bobby attacks his college professor because his mama was insulted . Another reason I can't hate this movie is that this was the time that Adam Sandler was actually funny and we enjoyed seeing his movies . I think the reason why people just didn't respond as well to this movie as his other films was due to the fact that a lot of his movies are the same plot with a different character : Happy Gilmore or Billy Madison . The Wedding Singer was his first movie that was completely original and that's why it's so well loved . But I still would recommend seeing The Waterboy for a few good laughs , you have to love some of the fantasies that Bobby comes up with , such as " Water sucks , Gatorade tastes better " , you'll have to see what I mean , but trust me , it's a good scene .
Back on the old Holiday Road	Actually and surprisingly , I did like " Vegas Vacation " over all . It has brought us back to the old Vacation . You have to admit that was a very cool cameo of Christie Brinkley . OK , Rusty and Audrey have changed quite a bit , that's why everyone has to love the line " The kids have grown up so much I don't even recognize them anymore " . LOL . Rusty has become a gambling lord in Las Vegas , while somehow Audrey has become a sexy stripper that was a bit disturbing . Ellen has been smittened by Wayne Newton and he has seduced her into his crazy world of entertainment , gambling , sex , money , and Sigfreid and Roy . : D And Clark has become a gambelholic and has managed to loose all of the family's money . Eddie has come back , but he's not as entertaining as in " Vacation " or " Christmas Vacation " . His welcome did wear out . Over all this is a good movie for some laughs . I wouldn't really recommend it unless you did love the " Vacation " movies . Otherwise just stick to " Vacation " and " Christmas Vacation " .
I thought it was a fun family movie	I loved the first Homeward Bound so much , it was one of my favorite childhood films . My friend had the sequel and I guess I was kind of curious where the story would go or end . The first Homeward Bound was so adorable and such a great story , so why not see the second one ? It seemed like a great concept and go back to the magic of the first one . While it's not as good as the first one , I warn you , I think this was still a fine family film . The family is going on vacation again , but this time they are taking the pets with . But Jamie and Chance's relationship has changed , where Jamie isn't playing with Chance as often and Sassy teases Chance that he's going back to " the bad place " , in the dog world that means " the pound " . So , Chance escapes the cage taking him to the plane , Shadow and Sassy follow to help Chance . They end up lost in San Francisco and get their butts saved by other street dogs , Chance also falls for one of those dogs named Delila . But it's street vs . pet and if humans are really worth risking everything for . Like I said , the second Homeward Bound doesn't compare to the original and the plot is extremely similar , but I think over all that it worked very well for the kids . The whole family will enjoy the film , it has positive energy and fun jokes that anyone could enjoy if they don't have an attitude problem . So , give the second Homeward Bound a chance , you may just like it .
A fun adaptation of our favorite turtles in a half shell	Oh , my God , I finally saw TMNT , I don't know how many opportunities to see TMNT in the theater , but it never pulled through . But I finally got to see the movie this morning on DVD ; I have to say that over all the movie really worked . While I would still prefer the live action Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles film made back in ' 90 , this was a fun adaption as well . The CGI was always an ifie subject with me , but I think that it worked for the simple fact of where this movie was aimed at , mostly a children's audience , and the dark animation made you feel as if you were in the comics . The voices were a perfect fit and the story was very cool . The only problem I had with the movie is that it seemed to be like more of a video game than an actual movie , it could have just been more creative I think . But the story worked very well . The turtles are back and they are about to face their biggest villain yet , a bunch of immortal stone monsters who are wishing to stay this way . But it gets harder when Leonardo comes back from the jungle just trying to become a better leader , but Rapheal isn't in the mood when he wants things done his own way . Now the boys must try to fight as one to fight off these monsters , with Splinter , Casey Jones and April O'Neil on their side , they just might be able to pull together and save the city once again . TMNT is a fun animation movie that I'm sure kids will love . I was 5 when the first Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles movie came out and I admit , I still watch it to this day , I still love the turtles , so I guess I was looking for those old memories . But since this wasn't really aimed towards the old school fans , I think it was somewhat of a disappointment , but it is worth a watch . I definitely think if you enjoy the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles stories , you'll get into TMNT .
The ultimate chick flick	I have never really liked chick flicks to let you know . There are only a hand-ful that I like . It's kind of rare to find a good one . To me , I never really enjoyed " Thelma and Louise " . It's a little bit too much of the whole " girl power " gig . Not that Thelma and Louise aren't cool . I actually compare their friendship to my friendship with my best friend . We love each other to death , and would probably end up being fugitives together . That's how close we are . But for the movie , it's alright . Even though there are some memorable moments , it just didn't do it for me . But I do think the girls will enjoy the young Brad Pitt . I have to admit , he does look good in the film . " Thelma and Louise " is the " Godfather " of chick flicks . Something mostly you can only enjoy with your best friend .
To be honest , I just thought it was alright	I was kind of looking forward to this film because this was the last chance for my rentals to see a good movie . In 2005 and now in 2006 , films have just been horrible . I recently watched The Constant Gardener and was beyond disappointed , so I think I was a little scared that this film was going to be the same , while I believe this was truly a decent film , the story and film just didn't do anything for me . The characters , I don't know wither who to love or hate and some of the plot felt hypocritical . Maybe I need to give it another chance , because I do know there is a great film in there somewhere . But over all , I would recommend it for your own personal experience .
I don't know wither I liked it or not	I knew it ! That was the dude from " Shake-a-speare in Love " ! Sorry , sorry . Those things drive me crazy sometimes . OK , where to start off ? I went to Blockbuster and saw the movie on the shelf and it looked kind of interesting . I love the boyfriend or girlfriend goes psycho kind of films . The acting : Heather Grahm : This girl is very beautiful , but she couldn't act to save her life . I can see how she got into the business . Just kidding ! No , I mean , she is just like giggling throughout the film . Her being a victim was very easy on her part . Joseph Finnes : On the other hand was more believable than Heather . His part is so mysterous and interesting . I really liked it . The love Story : OK , I had a very very very hard time believing . While it is obvious that Alice and Adam have chemistry , it's nothing but sex . And I think this is one of those fantasy relationships that every girl dreams of . That's what makes it so sexy , but very unbelievable . The ending was too sick , you'll have to see for yourself . I'm still gagging . I'm going to score a little above average , because there are some things about the film I did like . But Heather really killed it .
Another DARE commercial waiting to happen	Less than Zero is about some rich kids who just get bored and decide to destroy everything they have by doing drugs as usual . My only problem with this movie is the fact that I'm not sure if it was like a DARE movie or just another drug drama flick . But I will not doubt it , there are some great performances in here . Ironically enough more from Robert Downey , Jr . Gee , I wonder where he gets the inspiration from . Over all , Less than Zero is a pretty decent film , it is very dark though , not for kids at all . I'm not entirely sure how some scenes were worked in the film or even if Andrew and Jamie even had a story together . Realistic enough to be a DARE movie , but not enough where you're brutally scared into not doing drugs . Over all though , I can see how this was popular in the 80's .
The book is better	We had to read " The Hatchet " in school . I wasn't too into it . But I still thought it was a great book . The story was very interesting . When it came to the movie , the book was a little ruined for me . SPOILERS ! ! ! A kid is visiting his father . He takes a private plane , but the plane crashes . The pilot is killed . The kid survives . He must now learn how to survive on his own until the rescuers come . Time passes by and by on him learning how to stay alive . If you want this kind of a movie , watch " The Edge " . But stick to the book for the most part .
Misunderstood and under rated	This is probably the most controversial Halloween movie , simply because Michael Myers isn't in it . I know that this movie gets a lot of complaints , but actually I can see where the writers were going with this . They just had an idea to continue the Halloween stories , but just to do a different type of franchise , which I give them a lot of credit for . Does this movie deliver the same scares as the original Halloween or even the sequel ? No , it doesn't , but it's still creepy and not given a proper chance by most . Just the song that is used alone in this movie was a bit intense . It's a great little ghost story that is sure to deliver chills if you have an open mind to it . The acting isn't as good as the other movies , we have some pretty below par actors , but over all they make the movie worth watching even if it was cheesy . On Saturday , October 23 , shop owner Harry Grimbridge is chased by mysterious figures wearing business suits . He collapses at a gas station clutching a Silver Shamrock jack-o'-lantern mask and is driven to the hospital by the filling station attendant all the while ranting , " They're gonna kill us . All of us . " While Grimbridge is hospitalized , another man in a suit enters his room and pulls his skull apart . The man then returns to his vehicle , douses himself with gasoline and lights himself on fire , causing the car to explode . Challis , together with Grimbridge's daughter , Ellie , begins an investigation that leads them to the home of the Silver Shamrock Novelties factory . They learn from a hotel manager , Mr . Rafferty , that the source of the town's prosperity is Irishman Conal Cochran and his factory and that the majority of the town's population is made up of descendants of Irish immigrants . Challis learns that Ellie's father had stayed at the same hotel . Other guests of the hotel included shop owners Marge Guttman , Buddy , Betty and their son " Little " Buddy . All have business at the factory and eventually meet gruesome ends because of the Silver Shamrock masks . The Kupfer family views the Silver Shamrock commercial that will air on Halloween night . But there's more to these masks then meets the eye . Is Halloween 3 the best sequel ? No ; is it the worst sequel ? No ; I'd say just a lot of people got the wrong idea about the movie and didn't know what the writers were thinking when the wrote for this franchise . I loved the ending scene , it actually did give me a nightmare , I don't want to give it away though , just trust me , it's a creepy scene . I do recommend if you love horror movies to give this movie a fair chance or if you want to see the Halloween movie franchise , just remember that the writers just wanted to try something new . I do honestly like this movie , I hope people will see it for what it is and it's just a good ghost story to watch on a night for Halloween .
It's not that bad	Actually for a werewolf movie , this works very well . I wasn't a big fan of the book . Not too much of the movie , but I admit I like the movie better than the book . The actors work well with each other . And the make-up effects are pretty cool . It's worth a watch for horror fans .
It's alright , but it's nothing special to be honest	I don't know why , but when I was renting video's , I came across Mr . Magorium's Wonder Emporium and just decided to give it a shot . When I saw the trailer to the film , it did not look at all like a great children's classic type of movie . In fact , it just looked plain bad and like another flop waiting to happen . But I figured to just give it a shot , what do I have to loose ? I watched it last night and it was better than I was expecting , but still it really wasn't that impressive . The effects are a little much and the actors that were picked out for the film seem a little out of place . Don't get me wrong , I love Natalie Portman , she's beautiful and talented , but she didn't really seem to get into this movie . The only thing that I liked about the film was it's story , it is very magical and brings me back into a Charlie and the Chocolate Factory type of feeling . Molly Mahoney is just your average girl , but she really doesn't believe in herself and has other dreams of being a composer . She works at Mr . Magorium's Wonder Emporium , a toy store that seems to have magical powers . You ask for it and just take a book that was created many years back , it has the toy . But Mr . Magorium himself hires an attorney to help him out and he claims that he is dying , so he wants Molly to take over the business , but it'll take some confidence and magic to pull herself into believing that she can do it . Mr . Magorium's Wonder Emporium is overall a decent movie , it's definitely worth a look , but for me , I think one watch is all I need . Dustin Hoffman though was perfect for the role as Mr . Magorium , he has a great dramatic depth with excellent comedic relief , his character is very touching and makes the film worth the watch . I would recommend this for the family , it's a nice film for the afternoon , but like I said , it just fell short because of it's over the top effects and some of the actors , you'll just have to see it for yourself to understand what I mean .
As far as Disney sequels go , this was a pretty cute one	I wasn't expecting much , but I rented Mulan II because I enjoyed the first one pretty well . So I figured to give the second a shot , like I always say , what do I have to loose watching a movie ? Sometimes dignity , but what the heck ? Honestly though , Mulan II was a pretty cute and lovable Disney sequel , and most of us know , there aren't that many good one's . But Mulan is back and she is about to marry Shang , Mushu has placed himself on a high pedestal ever since he and Mulan have saved China . But when he finds out from the ancestors that he is about to loose his job , due to the fact that Mulan will now have Shang's ancestors to look after her , Mushu wants to break them up before they get married . Shang and Mulan have been called on a mission to escort the emperor's three daughters to their fiancée's with their three soldiers , but when Mulan gives the girls advice to follow their hearts , it may lead them to three certain soldiers they've fallen for . Mulan II of course isn't as good as the first Mulan , but it had our favorite characters back . Mushu is just as funny as ever , he and the lucky cricket made a great pair ! I would definitely recommend this for a fun family film , but for adults , it's a cute flick to watch , just probably won't see it again .
I actually liked it	Everyone told me that this movie was offensive . So , I figured why bother ? When I was watching T . V . , I noticed that Shallow Hal was on . So , why not give it a shot ? I really liked it . I thought it had a cute love story . And yes , it is a little hypocritical . Still , it's not a bad movie . Shallow Hal does have a couple laughs , but the story for the most part charmed me .
What can I say : Revenge of the 80's ?	This was a funny teen-sex comedy . Obviously it is dated and very stereotypical . But you let go and have a lot of fun with it . Finally , after everything I heard about this movie , I got to see it . I have to say it's a little over rated , but you get your laughs . I did like the scene where the girl has had the kinks with the nerd , but she thought it was her boyfriend in costume , and she was so amazed , even when she found out , and he said " All jocks think about is sports , but nerds always think about sex " . That's probably true , LOL . The ending is more heart warming then funny . But like I said , it's a decent comedy . And it is considered a classic among many . So , give it a shot . You'll get a funny cast , a few laughs , and maybe even learn a few things from the nerds . :
Guienuenly a good film	My mom and I have been trying to see more Johnny Depp movies since we saw his biography , we've seen the main movies that highlighted his career , but never the little one's along the way . Don Juan DeMarco , I don't remember hearing much about it when it was released , I think it was one of those small success films . But the thing that was interesting is that so many people who compared Johnny Depp to Marlon Brando on his diverse roles and character acting methods , they finally got to work together in this movie and bonus , they had great chemistry on screen . Don Juan DeMarco isn't by any means my favorite Johnny Depp film or a great film , but it's a good one that I think had a decent story and is very watchable at least one time . Johnny and Marlon just deliver the story so well and were so charismatic on screen . Johnny truly became Don Juan DeMarco . Dr . Jack Mickler is a psychiatrist who is on his last few days before his big retirement . He meets a suicidal man who is claiming that he is the legendary Don Juan DeMarco , he is put into the hospital . He begs Jack to take the time to tell him his story and that if he can convince him that he is Don Juan , that Jack will let him go . He agrees and Don tells him his story . But Don's grandmother tells Jack a different story , is Don really Don or just some crazy guy who is desperately in love with a woman ? But Jack believes him and even becomes a Don Juan at home with his wife . Don Juan DeMarco is a cute film and is definitely worth a look . There's nothing wrong with the film , I just wasn't into it as much as I am usually thrilled with Johnny or Marlon . But I think this was one of those films they could be more relaxed with and they were already very much established as great actors , so they could do a movie like this . It didn't matter that it wasn't a box office success , it's just a cute movie that I'm sure you'll enjoy . It definitely leaves a smile on your face and makes you feel good , so I would recommend it for a fun little comedy .
Blah ! I want to suck your . . . British accent ?	OK , now Dracula has officially become a slacker ! LOL ! Seriously , he's so up on getting revenge and yet he gets his hooker chicks to do the job for him ? Man , Dracula is a P-I-M-P , pimp ! LOL ! OK , I'm sorry , I love to joke around . Well , Taste the Blood of Dracula ins't a bad installment into the Hammer series . Dracula is dead and Lord Courtley is this little wienie follower of his that convince three pretty stupid drunk men to convince him into buying Dracula's blood and bringing the dark prince back ! I mean , who would take this role ? Ralph Bates apparently . An overly dramatic scene is done to bring Dracula back and for some reason he liked that wienie that was his follower and vows revenge on the three guys just because I think it's supposed to be an evil plan . But it's a secret plan nevertheless ! Only two of the those dude's daughters are in on it , Alice and Lucy . But they have boyfriends too that are willing to do anything to get them back ! Like I said , Dracula just gets so lazy and doesn't really have much of a scare in the film . But I enjoyed it a lot when I was a kid and sometimes I don't mind sitting down to these Christopher Lee Dracula movies . It has some entertainment value and you can MSTK3 the film on your own . So grab the popcorn and sit back for some heavy British accents and a lazy bum Dracula and enjoy !
Interesting , but I'm still not sure if it's all that and a bag of potato chips	I have heard quite a bit about Blade Runner lately , from a friend , on TV , my movie book , and my mom , so I wanted to see what all the fuss was about , so I rented it and just watched it tonite and I have to say that this was a very strange and disturbingly beautiful film . My only problem with it , is that it was just the more expensive Terminator in some ways . But I did enjoy the story , despite how weird it was , it is a film I haven't really seen . I loved the effects , it just amazes me how realistic they were compared to today's technology , not to mention the moral of the story still needs to be recognized in today's society . In the year 2019 , we have created a type of machine , looks and acts like a human , only they are stronger and smarter , they are called Replicants . But due to a violent act they are forbidden from entering planet Earth ; 4 replicants have made it to Earth and want their lives expanded from 4 years to so many more . Rick Deckard , a retired Blade Runner , rejoins the force to stop these replicants , but ends up realizing who might be the true enemy . It's very interesting and very visually stunning , but I wasn't incredibly impressed , at least with all the hype I heard with it . I can understand why , because it was a huge break through for the time , but still for me , I enjoy the Terminator films when it comes to a futuristic robot film . But I would never not recommend this movie , just for the sake that you can say you saw it , and you never know , I think you'll give it a proud 10 , but I'm going to stick with my rating .
Good gory fun !	I really didn't have an interest in seeing Slither when it was released in the theater , it just looked too cheesy and like a bad film for horror . But recently , I have been hearing more and more about Sliter , how much of a cult classic it's becoming and how many fans there are . Not to mention that it has a decent rating on IMDb , so I decided to wait for the rental . Slither reminded me of The Blob meets Squirm , only it had a great mix of horror and comedy . Sliter is about a meteor that hits the Earth and Grant and his mistress happen to be right next to it , and Grant gets attacked by one of the creatures that appear to be slug like and turns him into a giant slimy slug ! This slug impregnates a female human causing her to become this giant ball like slug carrying . . . thing ! She explodes causing over billions of slugs to get into the human's mouths and makes them into zombies ! Slither is cheesy , but it's the good kind that has a great reminder of the B-movies from the 80's . That's what was so clever about it , not to mention the great and funny dialog that seemed so natural and reminded me of Shaun of the Dead . " For better or worse ! " the wife says to Grant seeing him as the giant slug . I really enjoyed watching Slither , it's a great treat for horror fans !
Yeah , unrealistic , but I still enjoyed it	I'm studying to become a teacher at my college , I have learned so much so far . Student teaching was one of the best things I ever did in my life because I got to learn even more and it was more visual and personal . A few things for people who saw this film and don't know what I'm talking about when I say " unrealistic " , number one rule of teaching is that you do not become that personal with students , such as inviting them to stay in your house because you feel that they are in danger . Michelle would have been fired on the spot for several things she did in the film . But still , I really liked Dangerous Minds . It really touched my heart , because I felt for Michelle's character . How hard it is to want to get into a student's life , but you can't because otherwise , you have stepped out of line . She was above the system and was truly a good person who wanted to just help her students . I loved it's message of how a person can either choose to stay down or hold their head high . I would recommend this movie , it's a tear jerker , but a decent flick and much better than today's movies .
A surprising excellent thriller that kept me going and my heart racing	My friend just bought this movie with me at Target and when we got back to her house , she asked me if I ever saw it and I said no , she just handed it to me and said to watch it and that it was a really good movie . Even though I wasn't too interested , I decided to go ahead and watch it . I just watched it tonite and I have to say that I was really impressed with how well thought out this excellent thriller was . Ryan is just a normal average guy who is driving to pick up some shirts in an attempt to get his ex back , but his cell phone rings and on the other line there is a woman , Jessica , who is crying and begging for him to take his phone to a police officer and that she has been kidnapped . Ryan gets himself involved deeply when he takes deep risks trying to help Jessica and her family from being killed . Cellular is a great thriller that I would highly recommend for anyone , it had great suspense , good acting , and a terrific and original plot that film lover could enjoy . I would also like to take this moment to thank my friend for showing me this excellent movie . : D I know this isn't an Oscar speech , just had to get that out .
I know that it was silly , but for some reason I enjoyed it	Now , I know that this was the same thing and same jokes as the very first Airplane . But for some reason , I think because I was just in such a good mood that day , I really did enjoy this funny sequel . True , despite it being set in the future , they used the same characters , and you could totally tell that it was still set in the 80's , it was still a fun movie to watch . The only thing I really missed was Leslie Neilson . I know this also has a lower rating than the original , but I think everyone just needs to have fun with it . Yes , it was an unnecessary sequel , but it still had a few good laughs you have to admit . They brought back all the jokes we loved , and yes , it's unoriginal , but at least it's what makes the movie work . So , I know as silly as it may sound , I think you'll get a kick out of Airplane II : The Sequel . Like I said , just have fun with it !
It was good , but too long	Now , this was a brillantly made film . I will give the director a lot of credit for that . But the only problem I had was , this film was just too long . I remember in the theater the audience kept sighing in frustration when a scene would fade and then go into another scene . It was a good movie , my favorite is still " The Two Towers " . " The Return of the King " is my least favorite . Sorry , LOTR fans .
I'm not sure if it was top 250 good , but I still had a few good laughs	I'm not sure why , but lately , I have just been hearing reference after reference of The Big Lebowski lately . Not to mention my sister telling me how funny this movie is and that I should definitely watch it . Well , my sister just handed me the movie and said she would not speak to me until I watched it . Some ultimatum , huh ? Well , I did watch it immediately . The Big Lebowski over all was a funny film . I had more than a few good laughs . I think my favorite running gag was between John Goodman and Steve Buchemi and how John just keeps telling him to " Shut the F up , Donnie " and finally his last line to him is " These are bad men , Donnie " , I'm not sure why I found it so funny , maybe it was the way it was said . It just played off so well . Also the Jesus gag , the Spanish bowlers were hilarious . Not to mention a few other scenes of The Dude getting knocked out . But still , I'm not too sure if I found this movie to be funnier than other comedies I prefer . I think everyone has their different taste . But my sister did say to watch it one more time , so hopefully , maybe I'll get why this is such a great movie to others .
Cheesy , lame , but still a lot of fun	Howard the Duck is a film that I grew up with , I was only a 1 year old when it was released , but my mom and I would watch it together all the time . I think that's the reason why this movie is just special to me . But still I watch this movie and honestly it's not as bad as most people exaggerate it to be , granted it's not Citizen Kane , but it's still awesome to watch . I think people take the movie too seriously , first off look at the title , if you're expecting a duck to deliver an Oscar worth performance , get your head checked , second people make fun of the " flirting " between the duck and Lea Thompson , which was meant to be a joke , not real . Third , the ending , people make fun of it and it's being over the top , I personally found it to be so funny and still a ton of fun to watch , how could you not get a kick out of Jeffrey Jones ' performance ? He was awesome ! If you wanna know what the movie is about , read on before you see the movie so you can get a good idea and judge for yourself . The film begins late at night in " Duckworld , " which is a version of planet Earth , but with talking ducks living there in place of human beings . As Howard tries to relax , his armchair begins to vibrate violently , and Howard and the chair are promptly yanked through outer-space , all the way to Cleveland on planet Earth . After ending up in an oil drum , Howard hears a fight involving a woman and two thugs pretending to be her fans . Howard uses his skills of " Quack Fu " to defend her . Intimidated by a talking duck , the thugs scamper . The woman , Beverly , thanks Howard and , feeling sorry for him because he has no warm and dry place to sleep , invites him to her apartment . The next day , Beverly takes Howard to see Phil Blumburtt , who she believes is a scientist that can help Howard get back to Duckworld . It turns out Phil is actually a janitor at a museum and Howard , infuriated with Phil's charade . A few days later , Dr . Walter Jenning , and Larry who explain to Howard that they were doing a routine procedure at the lab , only for the experiment to go out of control , causing the laser to hit Howard's planet instead . Howard suggests he can be sent back to Duckworld if the laser can be put into reverse . He is taken to the Dynatechnics lab alongside Beverly , only to find out on arrival that the laser is seriously damaged due to another explosion . The explosion brings down a " Dark Overlord " who is not seen by the audience at the time , and takes over Jenning's body . Howard and Beverly see Dr . Jenning , but he is in the process of being taken over by the Dark Overlord . With Howard and Beverly both unaware of this , they escape in Jenning's car onto the freeway with him driving dangerously due to his worsening possession . They stop outside a diner just before he is fully taken over . Inside the Diner , the Overlord explains his attempts to call forth his fellow aliens from the Nexus of Sominus so that they may take over the world . Honestly , yeah the plot is a bit much to grasp , but cut the movie some slack , it's about a duck for goodness ' sake ! For me , it still makes me laugh and I have a ton of fun watching it . I loved seeing Tim Robbins and Howard trying to get to the factory to destroy Jeffrey Jones before he could take over the world , Tim was absolutely hilarious ! Yes there are a few things about this movie that are over the top but I still think that this movie is just mindless entertainment . Hey how many movies do we have where a duck saves Planet Earth ? Hmm , I guess this is the only one ; but give the movie a fair chance , it's a cute one .
A classic thriller that still gets a few chills	I confess I saw the remake of The Hitcher before I saw the original , despite me hearing a few good reviews about it , I never really got around to seeing it . But when I saw the remake , I swore I would see the original . The remake sucked , I told my friend about it , she told me to just stick to the original , so I rented it a few days ago and watched it , I have to say that it was definitely better , it had a lot of chills and scares here and there . In my opinion , there are a few flaws here and there , like the kids are still not that likable , and some things didn't work that well , but I'd have to give spoilers to tell . Jim has been traveling for quite some time from Chicago to California , when he is trying to keep awake , he sees a hitcher that he offers a ride too . The hitcher's name is " John Ryder " and quickly threatens Jim's life , but Jim manages to get him out of the car . Right as things look good for him , we realize it's only 15 minutes into the film , and John is not going down without a fight and frames Jim for murders that he committed himself . Jim meets a young pretty waitress Nash and she tries to help him get out of this mess , but John is not going to give up that easily . The Hitcher has some very intense moments that were great , John Ryder is one of the best villains in horror movie history . The guy just won't give up on making Jim's life a living hell in the series of murders that he is leaving behind for Jim to take the blame . My problem is that he said Jim was a smart man and would figure out why he was doing this to him , but I never found out why . Oh , well , I guess maybe it was just me .
Did I see the same movie as everyone else did ?	I don't know , I'm not quit sure . This is on the top 100 . In fact in the top 50 . At 37 , I was quit impressed . I have been dying to see this movie . I finally swallowed my pride and did the stupid 2 day rental at Blockbuster . Which everyone knows is stupid and not worth it to have a film for 2 days . Now , I thought that the movie was very interesting . There is a point . The acting was very good . There is another point . The editing was great . There is another point . The directing is pretty decent . There is a point . And quit another few to be named . BUT ! ! ! . . . in some ways I thought this was a pretty average film . Like " Vanilla Sky " and " Wicker Park " , you are confused through most of the movie . I felt also that it didn't end too well . But you could give it a shot , because obviously other people saw something in this film to give it a high rating .
Since when did Casper become romantic ?	Casper , the friendly ghost , is now in computer form ! : D I have to admit , when I became a teenager , I doubted this movie just to be kinda cool and not enjoy a kid's movie . But I babysit often , and my cousins wanted to watch this again , so I slipped it in . You know what ? I enjoyed it and I think I'm willing to admit that I liked it . I love this family movie because it has not only kid humor , but adult humor as well . Christina Ricci and Bill Pullman were great and it was fun to watch their first time reactions moving into the house with the evil uncles that are " disgusting and obnoxious creeps " . I love their response to that " Thank you ! " . Casper is just a polite ghost who wants to have friends and be human again . When he discovers that his father invented a machine to make ghosts humans again , he and Christina find the only potion left that's enough for him to become human . Of course , we have our villains who want a " hidden treasure " in the mansion and set up Bill Pullman and Christina Ricci in the house to get to it . They figure the best way is to have one of them die and be able to just go through the safe . Of course , they must come back human and the only way is the potion that's enough for one person . We have another problem of the uncle's taking Bill on a drinking trip to make him one of their own to " see " his deceased wife . There is a very touching ending and I would always recommend this for a family watch . It's a cute movie with some fun jokes and cool effects . So , I am actually going to admit that I had fun and am going to give a good rating .
Actually kind of fun and adventurous	So , Hellboy , another comic book I never heard of , figured I would never get into it if I didn't know the story , so I stayed clear of the film , but I was renting movies and came across it and figured to just see what it was about . I watched Hellboy yesterday and this was definitely a fun film , it's so rare that we get the dark comic book story like Batman , except we have Hellboy , supernatural and dark , nice combo . Hellboy packs plenty of action and cool effects with an awesome story and a new anti hero to root for . It's so cool and ironic that we are rooting for a half man and half devil to save the world , right ? Hellboy is an awesome hero with the super strength , great fighting skills , and best of all , gotta love the last cool pun lines when he saves the day . In 1944 , Professor Trevor Bruttenholm goes to Germany to stop a Nazi troop who are ready to open the gates of Hell . The Americans are able to stop the troop , but Trevor finds a creature , half man , half devil , he calls him Hellboy . Years later Hellboy is being used by the government to help the city out with super natural forces . But when Grigori Rasputin wishes to open the gate once more , he needs Hellboy to do so . In the mean time , Hellboy is fighting for the city and the woman he loves , Liz , and will not fall for Grigori Rasputin's tricks . Hellboy is definitely a fun film to watch and it's a great comic book film . The only complaint I have about the film is just that the effects , as great as they were , there was still some very CGI moments and they were not believable . But I loved Abe Sapien , the special effects on him were beautiful and looked very real . I would recommend Hellboy for the comic book fans or even if you're looking for a dark super hero film other than Batman or The Crow . This is a fun movie and I'm looking forward to the sequel .
Oh , no , not another teen movie ! pause oh , this is actually funny ? Coolness !	Not Another Teen Movie , like Scary Movie , this is a parody of what the 1990's had to offer us , the romantic teen comedies ! How many of them do we loathe ? But how many were also great ? Not Another Teen Movie makes fun of movies from the 80's to the 90's and is very clever . I saw this movie with a friend and honestly , while there are a few parts that were a little too much for me , I don't exactly dig potty humor , but there are some really funny scenes . It was fun to see someone finally make fun of the all the clichés that were rubbed in our faces : the nerdy girl turning into the hot girl , clichéd characters that would never be friends but somehow are , the best friend in love with the other friend who's in love with the popular kid , you get the drill . In the stereotypical high school community of John Hughes High sexy Priscilla , a popular cheerleader , separates from her boyfriend , Jake Wyler . After Jake discovers that Priscilla is now dating strange and socially inept Les just to spite him , one of Jake's friends , Austin , suggests seeking retribution by making Janey Briggs , a " uniquely rebellious girl " , the prom queen . Jake attempts to court Janey's love , but faces adversity from his own sister Catherine , who is sexually attracted to him , Janey's unnoticed admirer and best friend Ricky , and memories from his past football career . Catherine eventually helps her brother by slightly altering Janey's appearance , ultimately making her more attractive to the other characters . Meanwhile , Janey's little brother , Mitch , and his friends , Ox and Bruce , make a pact to lose their virginity by Graduation even though they are still in their Freshmen year . Making fun of movies like : She's All That , Cruel Intentions , American Pie , The Breakfast Club , Ferris Bueller's Day Off , Drive Me Crazy , American Beauty , and Pretty in Pink , Not Another Teen Movie leaves no film left alone to show us the utter cliché that came with every teen movie out of the 90's . Like I said , there are some moments that are a little much , this is a pretty raunchy comedy , but I think it's just making fun of the in your face movies with the sick humor as well . I mean there's potty humor and hard core nudity , but I digress . There are some really funny moments in this movie , wither it was the random song the cast breaks into about their excitement for the prom or the whole introduction of the clichéd characters . The cast looked like they had a blast making this movie and I had a lot of fun watching it as well . I would recommend it for those who love satire and parodies , I did warn you though about the raunchiness , so if you have a weak stomach , you may wanna fast forward through a few parts .
A really fun kid's movie	This movie never really popped in my head to see , but my friend had recommend it and said that it was a pretty good movie . So , I decided to go ahead and give it a look . It does have Tommy Lee Jones , Frank Langela , and Phil Hartman , what could I loose ? The only thing that scared me was that it looked like such a boy's movie , I was kinda a Barbie girl when I was younger , but Small Soldiers proved itself to be a great family film . Anthony , a pre teen , just got a shipment of toys he wants to sell so he can make his dad's store some money . These toys aren't like any others though , they have chips in them and never wear off . Until one gorganite follows Anthony home and it seems like he is alive and so are the commandos who want to destroy each other . After all , War is Hell ! Small Soldiers is a good film for everyone , I was pleasantly surprised and I would recommend this movie for anyone , it was very cute and had a great look to it . Tommy and Frank made great voices for these toys , not to mention that the last war scene was so memorable and cool to watch . For a girlie girl , I loved Small Soldiers !
Good action for the family to enjoy	I admit when I first saw the trailer for Journey to the Center of the Earth , it didn't really seem like it was going to be much fun to see on my own . But I decided to go ahead and give it a fair chance , I got to see it in 3D as well , I think that's part of what made it so much to watch . I know it sometimes feels like a kid thing but I think the 3D adds so much to the action since you feel like you are part of the movie . I also felt like this was actually well done and wasn't cheesy at all . I did see the original Journey to the Center of the Earth when I was a kid , I used to love watching it , now I'm an adult so seeing this newer version of the film brought back a few memories and created some new one's for this generation . Trevor is a professor who isn't really taken serious by his colleagues at the college as well as his students . When his sister in law drops off his nephew , Sean , for the week while she finds a new home in Canada , he goes through his brother's old things . Trevor finds the book Journey to the Center of the Earth with notes from his brother who has been missing for a long time . Trevor and Sean want to find out if this was real and travel to Iceland , with the help of an adventurer , Hannah , they go to the center of the Earth to find some amazing things you could never imagine . Journey to the Center of the Earth is worth the watch , I think what made it more exciting was the 3D , as cheesy as it sounds , it made the action more real and just apart of you . The story was fun and the effects were not too over bearing thankfully with the CGI . This is also the year of Brandon Fraiser , I know a lot of people think he is dull , but I thought he brought a lot of life to the movie , I think his career just keeps moving up . This movie is worth the watch in the theater , at home I don't think it will have the same effect , so if you get the chance , I would recommend it , this was a fun movie to watch and very enjoyable .
A bit degrading , but still I have to admit that I laughed	My sister lent me this movie and told me how funny it was . I even told her that I'm not really into those ghetto type of comedies , that it's a bit racist or stereotype , she's the same way too , but she said that I simply had to see this movie . If I loved Chris Tucker that I should definitely enjoy this movie . Well , I have to admit that I got more than a few laughs during this film . Especially from Chris Tucker and Ice Cube , they made a great comedic team . Basically , they owe a drug dealer $200 . 00 and they owe it by Saturday . The problem is that Ice Cube just lost his job and Chris never really had a job . Ice Cube also has a girl who has a major crush on him and he likes her back , but he also has a bit of a jealous girl who is after any girl who likes her man . The funniest scene in this movie , even though it is kind of insulting , is Chris's blind date with " Janet Jackson " . His reaction is priceless . You'll have to see the movie to understand what I'm saying . So actually I would recommend this movie , unless you are highly sensitive . But still , just let go and have fun , you can do that easily with Chris Tucker's brilliant comedy .
A slick and clever plan will add interest to this movie	Over all , I enjoyed " Ocean's Eleven " . It had an exciting plot and of course the biggest A-class actors . I mean , what more could a movie buff want ? But was I that excited about this movie , not really . George Clooney and his con friends are devising a plan to rob one of the biggest casino's in Las Vegas . Over $150 million , they have their heads in deep . So , they obviously have to find people for different jobs . What they are good at and who has the connections . I would recommend this for a watch . It's a good movie . But like I said , it's not that big of a deal . I felt like either there was too much said or then they didn't say enough . But if you enjoyed this , I'd recommend " The Italian Job " as well . Both good movies and great actors . So , grab the popcorn and give " Ocean's Eleven " a whirl .
Bizarre , yet interesting at the same time	I remember seeing the trailer for this movie when it was first released and it looked pretty cool . I never got the chance to see it though . When I went to Blockbuster to rent some videos , I figured I should watch it . After all I did love " Silence of the Lambs " and " Se7en " , and if you enjoyed those movies , you might get a kick out of " The Cell " . The whole story concept is very interesting . Going physically into the mind of a killer , I can't imagine the world they live in . The acting is actually pretty decent . Jennifer Lopez is the only one I have to say that wasn't that great , but she does a believable job . I would recommend for a scary thriller .
The Original Teen Sex Comedy	Fast Times at Ridgemont High is one of those films , even if it was made before you were born , you have heard of it in some way . It is so referenced to society and some of it's scenes are legendary . I was watching I love the 80's and they showed some pretty funny clips , so it was always on my mind to give this movie a look . I finally remembered to rent it at Hollywood Video and watched it last night . Although I'm not sure I laughed as much as others would have , I still liked this film for some reason . Just because I think in one way or another you could relate to it and remember how hard it was being a teenager . We have Stacey and Linda , two hot young high school students who are very sex deprived and look to make this year their best ever . Mike who is chasing after Stacy and looking to have a meaningful relationship with her . Brad , a senior who is looking to make his last year the best but plans turn out to be different when everything turns on him . Then of course we have Jeff Spacolli , the stoner surfer dude who manages to finally let a teacher , Mr . Hand , have his own . Fast Times at Ridgemont High is a classic teen comedy that I would highly recommend . It is all in good fun and was just so much fun to watch . The cast looked like they had so much fun and the movie just looked like a blast to make . It's understandable on why this film's legacy lives on , this was the movie to watch before American Pie and it's always a joy to stick to the original , trust me . Even though this film had it's stupid moments , I gotta admit I couldn't help but laugh at Spacolli's line " What's that noise ? " . . . " It's my skull ! " , we're proud of you , Sean .
I'd rather watch this than " The Wedding Planner "	I'm a fan of Denise Richards , I admit . I think she is incredibly beautiful and has the potential for being a great actress . Again , I rented this movie from Hollywood Video , I couldn't help myself , I think it's that female magnet thing in my head . : D But seriously , I thought that this was an adorable film that anyone could enjoy . True , mostly girls . But it was still fun . I didn't realize that this was a made for TV movie , but still it was a good little film . Denise Richards plays a wedding planner who has a mean boss and a client who is a brat . When she meets a hunky fire fighter played by Dean Caine , she is in love . He is interested as well , but she thinks that's her client's fiancée . But when she finds out that he isn't and it's his brother's fiancée , they start a steamy relationship , but then she finds out that the fiancée is sleeping with a certain family member . Can she still trust him and hope her heart doesn't get broken ? You'll have to find out that one for yourself . This is a cute movie to watch with the girls and I'll admit 100 % that I enjoyed this film as well .
It's a cute romantic comedy	You name it , I've seen quit a few romantic comedies . Some of them are fun to watch , some of them are not so good . I'm not really into chick flicks . But I do enjoy Ben Stiller and Edward Norton . They are both wonderful actors . And I figured to give the movie a chance . I thought it was really cute . The story is original and fun . Some of it was a little bit too lovey dovey for my tastes . But that's OK . I would recommend the film . Mainly if you like Ed or Ben . They both give a nice comedic performance . I was a little disappointed with the ending . But you'll have to see it to know what I'm talking about . If you look at , it is actually just another romantic comedy . But you might want to give it a chance .
Strangely funny	When I first saw the trailer to Walk Hard : The Dewey Cox Story , I didn't think much of it other than " Oh , great , another Knocked Up wanna be " , it just seems like they won't stop with these over the top comedies . But my friend and I decided to see it the other night and I have to admit , I really did laugh . I'm almost scared to say that the creators of the Superbad , Knocked Up , 40 Year Old Virgin are doing a great job in the comedy genre . Walk Hard : The Dewey Cox Story is stupid humor , but it's definitely a need in our lives when it comes to films where we don't have to think but just enjoy . Walk Hard : The Dewey Cox Story takes a joke at the big Oscar winning biographies like Walk the Line and Ray . Some of the humor is a little out there , but works like in the days of Airplane ! The story is a lot of fun to watch though . Dewey Cox is an inspiring musician with a soulful voice and the history of the blues . He is trying to do double good in his life since he accidentally macheted his brother in half . He goes on to make huge hits in life , but is constantly accused of making the " devil's music " . But through his success , he finds a beautiful duet singer , Darlene and makes her his wife . But he goes through the life struggle of drugs , sex , and rock and roll . He learns the true meaning of life and must deal with the fact that he can't smell anything , but in the end learns more about his 22 kids . Walk Hard : The Dewey Cox Story is silly , but it's all in good fun . I have to admit that I am glad that I saw it , as stupid as it was at times , like I said , we all need those brainless comedies . I'm sure once people give Walk Hard a better chance when it comes out on rent , somewhere down the line this will be a classic . I mean , come on ! It had Jack Black as one of the Beatles in the film ! OK , I know that it sounds stupid , but believe me , it's funny . Walk Hard : The Dewey Cox Story is a fun comedy that I would recommend to see , you'll get a few good laughs out of it .
A little too sappy for my tastes	I've watched quit a few movies that made me sob . But " E . T . " is a little extreme . It's a great movie , and there are some great actors . The plot is very touching . Steven Speilberg is practically the " boss " of directing . He knows what he is doing and he does it well . He has a vision that makes everyone smile . He's brilliant . But this time he went a little far . In fact , I am almost crying writing a comment on the movie becaue I am thinking about the ending . I'm sorry , I just can't say this is the best movie . It's way too sad for me . But I will say that it was a great movie if anything . I would recommend for youngsters though .
Oh , yeah , this is a Q . T . film	" Reservoir Dogs " is a great film with a couple flaws that I wasn't too interested in . I've seen too many mob movies , so in some way it got a little boring . But I did enjoy this movie . The acting was fantastic and the plot was also very cool . The torture scene with the cop was very disturbing . Not to sound sick , but I do like these kind of movies . I loved how all the actors portrayed their roles . It just got too predictable for me . I knew who the rat was before he squealed . But I won't spoil . Like I said , it's a great film . I just need to jump into a new genre . But for a director's debut , I stand and applaud Quentin . The man knows his work .
A cute and fun little musical	I have known this film since I could crawl . And it was very cool when I was in it at my high school . Ah , memories . sniff , oh sorry ! The musical is a lot of fun to watch . It is a little cheesy on some levels . But you'll enjoy it somewhat . Rick Moranis is a wonderful actor . I really enjoyed him as Seymor . The rest of the cast delivers a great musical . Steve Martin is one of the best characters in " Litle Shop " . And as well as the extremely talented John Candy . hint : D I would recommend this for a fun time . But I am still curious about the original ending .
Definitely Watchable	When I first saw the trailer for Definitely , Maybe , it looked like an alright film that was probably just your average Valentine's Day love fest movie . But I got to see it for free , if the price is right , why not ? So I watched it and actually I have to say that I was pleasantly surprised . Ryan Renolds , I love the guy in comedies , I haven't seen him in drama , so I was a little skeptical , but after seeing Definitely , Maybe , he pulled in a good performance that surprised me . The only thing I have to say I was a little disappointed in was Abigail Breslin , her performance in Little Miss Sunshine was wonderful and heart warming , Definitely , Maybe didn't bring in her best performance , who knows ? It could've been the script or director , but she pulls a decent enough performance to where the movie works and puts a different twist on the average romantic comedy . Will Hayes has it all , a great paying job , a beautiful daughter , Maya , and a nice home , but unfortunately he is getting divorced . Maya comes over and wonders how he and her mom met . Will keeps saying no , but after tons of begging , he finally decides to go ahead and tell her . But he puts a little twist , since he went through a few women before her mom came along , he tells her the whole story , but through three women , Maya has to solve the love story mystery and find out who her mother is . Definitely , Maybe was different than the average romantic comedy and that's what I liked about it , it seemed also like it was just more real and not what women should have expectations about . It goes through the serious up's and down's of a relationship , the on and off's as well . The cast did a good job of pulling the film together and making the film very decent . I would recommend Definitely , Maybe , it's worth the watch and was a pleasant movie to see .
It's all fun and games until someone brings the pink champagne	I have to say that I was really surprised with Joy Ride , I didn't know what to expect since I didn't know what the movie was about . But one of my friends was just screaming about this movie and how awesome it was , but then again she's just so in love with Paul Walker , so you can see where the doubts might have been . But I decided to rent it anyways and just give it a look and I have to say that I was actually impressed with this film , it had an awesome story , a brother you love to hate for getting them into the mess , and the two other likable characters . Well , you'll see what I mean when you see the film , but the story is a cool tense one . Lewis is coming home from college , and when he learns that his crush would like to drive home from her college , he turns in his airline ticket and buys a car and is headed to pick her up . But he calls his mom and once again his brother , Fuller , is in jail and Lewis volunteers for the job of picking him up . He does so and then installs a CB radio to know the way home , but Fuller wants to have fun and plays a prank on another truck driver , he makes Lewis pretend to be a girl called Candy Cane and to meet them at the hotel in a different room where another guest is staying . The next morning , the guest is brutally injured and in a coma , then the truck driver is stalking both brothers . They apologize and he backs off , but when they pick up Venna , Lewis's crush , the driver wants one more joke . . . for fun . Joy Ride is a constant tense thriller that reminded me somewhat of the Hitcher , it was awesome , it reminded me of some John Carpenter films . But the cast was really great , I mean , Steve , Paul , and Leelee worked very well together and just clicked . The story was so scary ; I just kept wanting to get into and slap Fuller , it's like all this wouldn't have happened if it were not for him , but then again , we wouldn't have had a movie , right ? I would highly recommend this film for any thriller lovers , this was a great joy ride .
It's a good movie , but not within my tastes and was a bit too dark and disturbing	My best friend has been begging me since 2001 to watch Requiem for a Dream , for some reason I never really got around to watching it . But recently I thought about the movie and decided to give it a shot . After all on IMDb , it's # 52 on the top 250 . What did I have to loose ? Well , this movie is a trip , and I mean an intense one . This is an excellent depiction of what drugs can do to you and the horrible graphic consequences of continuing the downward path . The acting , we have Ellen Byrnstein , one of the finest actresses , you might remember her from The Exorcist . I felt so awful for her character in the film , now she doesn't get on drugs intentionally , she just wants to loose some weight because she was picked to go on a TV show . So she starts taking diet pills that have the same drugs as speed in them , so unknowingly she continues taking them uncontrollably . Her son played by Jared Leto , his girlfriend Jennifer Conelly , and his friend Marlon Waynes are drug dealers and heavy users themselves , but continue their search for a dream like paradise . This is a good movie in general when it comes to effectiveness , but the best made picture ? Not really , but the acting and story is terrific . I will warn you , this is extremely graphic and should not be shown to children .
The movie that started one of the best TV series " Tales from the Crypt "	My mom brought home 10 D . V . D's a couple of months ago . And she gave me this movie called " Creepshow " , and said that it was cheep and she knew that I liked horror movies , so she bought it for me . And I wasn't expecting anything . I thought it would be a cheap movie that was stupid . I was in shock . I actually enjoyed Creepshow . And realized that this is what sprung up " Tales from the Crypt " With great stars that made it in life . I was happy . Not one of the best , but it will be a classic to horror fans for a life time .
Boy , and I thought I had bad road rage	You know what this movie reminded me of ? LOL ! School yard fights " You started it ! " . No , that's not a quote from the movie , but that's what it had reminded me of . Over all , " Changing Lanes " is a fast paced exciting movie that is pretty enjoyable . We just start off with Sam and Ben who are both caught in some horrific traffic jam and get into a car accident . Ben has a very important court case to get to and doesn't have enough time to go through swapping insurance numbers and such and tells Sam " better luck next time " leaving him with a car that is not drivable in the rain . Sam notices Ben left an important folder at the accident for his court case that could make or break his career . Sam also was due in court , for his custody of his children and his tardiness causes the lose of his children . Ben freaks out when he notices the folder is missing and tracks down Sam , but Sam isn't willing to give up the folder quite yet . They go back and fourth between revenge tactics that's pretty immature . It does have a happier ending thankfully where the two put their differences aside and actually end up helping each other . This is a decent movie and I'd recommend it .
This was a story by Shakespeare ?	It's kinda weird that people say this story was based off of a Shakespeare story , yet no one ever mentions what this was based on . But 10 Things I Hate About You is one of the classic teen movies that came out of the 90's that was actually pretty good . It had a great cast , the story was original and a lot of fun , and the whole movie made you laugh and feel good . This was the movie that really sky rocketed Heath Ledger's career in America and I remember in school how all the girls were just drooling over him . Also all the guys fell in love with Julia Styles , she was also just awesome in this movie and made for a good strong female lead . This movie captured a great amount of what most teens go through in their world , wither it's just wanting to be different , popular , having an over protective parent , dealing with sex and rejection , this movie just worked on so many levels . Cameron James , the new kid at Padua High School , is given a tour of the school by Michael , who is an audio-visual geek . Michael provides Cameron with information on the school's various cliques . During the tour , Cameron spots the beautiful and popular Bianca and is immediately smitten with her . Michael warns that Bianca is shallow , conceited , and worst of all , not allowed to date . Michael does , however , inform Cameron that Bianca is looking for a French tutor . Bianca's outcast sister Kat is another problem of hers ' as well as her protective father , Walter , as he wants Kat to attend college nearby and wants Bianca to not date thinking it will lead to pre-marital pregnancy . Bianca begs her father to allow her to date , but is rejected , Kat's aversion to dating prompts the father to come up with a new rule : Bianca can only date if Kat is dating . Cameron starts tutoring Bianca , and she informs him of her father's rule . This news motivates Cameron and Michael to set out to find a boy who is willing to date Kat . Patrick Verona , an outcast who is just as ill-tempered as Kat . Cameron tries asking Patrick for his assistance , Cameron pays Patrick to take Kat out . Patrick agrees , but Kat , however , wants nothing to do with Patrick . Leading into Dawson's Creek drama . If you do have the opportunity to see 10 Things I Hate About You I do recommend that you take the chance . It's a good movie and doesn't push you around or play games with you , and that's why everyone loved it , because it was just honest . Plus you just have to love the adorable scene where Heath Ledger sang to Julia Styles on the bleachers and got chased around by security , if that's not love and commitment , then I don't know what is . It has a great happy ending and just makes you feel good .
So beautifully haunting	I steered away from this movie completely , I mean , Ashton Kutcher in a drama ? It seemed like some crazy alternate universe . But everyone just keeps telling me on and on about how great this movie is , so I figured why not give it a chance ? I have to say that I was pleasantly surprised at how well this picture was made . Ashton plays Evan , a guy who has had a pretty bad childhood , but always blacks out at key moments in his life , so a therapist suggests write down as much as he can remember about the incident in a journal . But when he grows up and over all has a decent life , he bumps into his old crush and she has turned out pretty bad , she ends up killing herself , but when Evan finds out that he can turn back time by reading his journal , he can change the past . So , he does that several times finding out that the past is too precious to change and to except things as they are . Even though I wasn't as into this movie as I can see others are , I still very much enjoyed it . Like I said , this turned into a surprisingly good film and Ashton actually did a good job as a dramatic actor , he just scored some points on my list .
I had fun with Dick and Jane	Well , was this the best Jim Carrey comedy ? Not really , but it is one of his better late one's . I think because I have had the week from heck , I just needed a good laugh , thanks to Jim . : ) Anywho , Dick and Jane are two average Americans who follow by the rules and manage a reasonable budget . When the company that Dick owns goes broke , he is fired , he and Jane are now in trouble when Dick cannot find a job fast enough . Piece by piece they are loosing or having to sell their stuff , when Dick receives an eviction notice , he and Jane have had it and will no longer play by the rules to live their lives once again . With a cast who seemed to enjoy making the film , I think this was over all a funny movie to watch and would recommend it .
A little cheesy and stereotypical , but this is a fun movie !	I just finally saw the famous " Karate Kid " movie and while I felt it was a little cheesy and predictable , it was still a good movie that gave you such a good feeling at the end like Rocky did . It is very dated and you know what will happen in the next scene , but I think this was a one of a kind at the time it was released . Basically , Daniel is a teen in a new town with his mom in a crummy apartment . He unfortunately is not very well excepted at first by his classmates , except for one pretty young girl . Perhaps you know her ? Some girl named Elizabeth Shue ? Never heard of her . : D LOL ! But anyways , he also befriends the old Asian Gardener who is his land lord . When he has a bad night after another confrontation , his old friend defends him and together he decides to teach Daniel how to learn Karate and defend himself . With some cheesy moments and over the top of predictions , this is a decent flick to catch with our favorite optimistic endings that make us smile and may inspire us . This is just a cute and fun movie with some pretty catchy lines , I think anyone could enjoy this film . For the family or just your own pleasure , have fun and try not to kick anything . : )
Good , but don't go in expecting a comedy	When I saw " Smart People " the trailer , I have to say that the first thought that came into my mind is " Sideways : Part 2 " . It had the same formula and characters . But I really wasn't as into Sideways as everyone else was , so I wasn't so excited to see this movie . But today I just decided to go ahead and give it a chance , I'm more grown up since I've seen Sideways , so why not just see what the film had to offer ? I have to say while the movie does not excite me , I also see it doesn't excite too many people here on IMDb , it's a decent enough movie and worth the watch . The solid performances make the film likable and the story is interesting to watch , while it's not something that everyone can relate too , it's a good movie . Lawerance is a college professor who isn't the most popular guy on campus , he's pompous , arrogant , and puts himself higher above his students while ignoring their plea's for extra help on assignments . His son hates him , his daughter admires him and is quite the over achiever , and his adopted brother is a scam artist . But when Lawerance has an accident while jumping fence , he hits his head , and meets former student , Janet Hartigan . They start to date , his daughter , Vanessa , goes through her life realizing she's never really had fun , and his adopted brother , Chuck needs this family just as much as Lawerance needs it . Smart People , the major problem is that this was advertised as a comedy , it has some funny moments , but they're not what you would call laugh out loud . I'd say this is more of a drama with comedic elements , kind of like " Dan in Real Life " , so Smart People didn't have " Smart Advertisement " , but the movie is worth the watch . I would recommend it , it's an interesting film , not thrilling , so I would recommend probably waiting for the rental . But the cast pulls the movie together and makes it into a good drama .
This is the life !	" Johnny Dangerously " is a sort of hit and miss comedy that has it's laughs and " huh ? " . But I suggest to give it a chance . I think it is greatly over looked . Not too many people give this movie a chance . It does work . Just think of it as a little parody of " Goodfellas " . Michael Keaton is very funny in his role . And he does it well . Johnny Dangerously is a gangster who wants to go higher in life . He just works his way up from the big bosses to a beautiful wife . And of course like a lot of the mob movies , someone wants him dead . 90 % of the jokes get a laugh . Like , I said give it a chance . Just take your favortie gangster movies and mix a comedy in . You have " Johnny Dangerously " .
Or as I like to call it " Will Smith can cry like a . . . " well you know what	Seven Pounds , this was the movie where I was just convinced Will Smith is really going for the " I'm going to make you cry " films . One thing I can give him a ton of credit for , the man can cry . My only thing is , as moving as the story is , Will Smith has proved time and time again that he can act , so why is he taking this extremely depressing story ? But nevertheless it's still a good movie . I do have to admit it made me cry , but I felt that the stand out performance was Rosario Dawson , I absolutely love this girl , ever since I saw her in 25th Hour with Ed Norton , I knew this girl was going to go far . She's beautiful , charming , funny and talented , can't wait to see how much further her career is going to go . But her and Will Smith , not so sure if they had the great chemistry that the film needed that would've made this into a great film . Two years ago Tim Thomas was in a car crash , which was caused by him using his mobile phone ; seven people died : six strangers and his fiancée . A year after the crash , and having quit his job as an aeronautical engineer , Tim donates a lung lobe to his brother , Ben , an IRS employee . Six months later he donates part of his liver to a child services worker named Holly . After that he begins searching for more candidates to receive donations . He finds George , a junior hockey coach , and donates a kidney to him , and then donates bone marrow to a young boy named Nicholas . Two weeks before he dies he contacts Holly and asks if she knows anyone who deserves help . She suggests Connie Tepos , who lives with an abusive boyfriend . Tim moves out of his house and into a local motel taking with him his pet box jellyfish . One night , after being beaten , Connie contacts Tim and he gives her the keys and deed to his beach house . She takes her two children and moves in to their new home . Having stolen his brother's credentials , and making himself known by his brother's name Ben , he checks out candidates for his two final donations . The first is Ezra Turner , a blind vegetarian meat salesman who plays the piano . Tim calls Ezra Turner and harasses him at work to check if he is quick to anger . Ezra remains calm and Tim decides he is worthy . He then contacts Emily Posa , a self-employed greeting card printer who has a heart condition and a rare blood type . He spends time with her , weeding her garden and fixing her rare Heidelberg printer . He begins to fall in love with her and decides that as her condition has worsened he needs to make his donation . Seven Pounds is a good film and no doubt worth a look , I would just recommend going for the rental vs . the theater . Will Smith pulls in a good performance , but not his best , just most of the film required him crying in every scene , but the last one with him is a doozy . But I loved the ending , it was beautiful and really made you appreciate life and to not take it for granted . There is still good people in this world and Ben's character reminds you to value life and to give to those who are in desperate need . Although he went a little far , but it was still a beautiful story .
It's confusing , but it's good	I'm not so sure what I can say about this film . It's exciting but I was also confused on a few things . Everything seemed to go pretty fast . But I think I got the plot . Of course , it's kind of strange to see Arnold scream . So that was a bit of a distraction . You got to admit , the accent made who he is . The movie takes place in the future . People go to Mars for vacation . And taxi drivers are robots . There are mutants . And it just gets weirder and weirder . I hope the future will not turn out like that . The movie is good and the effects are amazing for it's time . I would recommend this for Arnold or action lovers . Just to let you know , Arnold does do a lot of screaming . But you do get to also see how the 80's fashion will come back in the future . Oh , man , that's scary .
Not as funny as " Analyze This " , but still it's a good comedy	I wasn't laughing as much as I did in the first movie . But there are some pretty funny scenes in " Analyze That " . I think I am in love with Robert DeNiro . It's official . : D Just kidding . He's just so funny in the movie . Once again he steals the show . Especially with him singing songs from " West Side Story " . The plot isn't as interesting as the fist movie of course , but they keep up with the same goofs . Over all , it's a good film . But don't expect another " Analyze This " . It's not as funny . But it's good for a couple laughs . And since I am so in love with Robert , I'm going to be nice .
Funnier then the first one	So , we return with the Bradys ' once again . With a new addition of Tim Matheson . The " astranged husband / father " to Carol and the girls . It has some good moments . And some strange . But I laughed more then I did in the first one .
Somewhere I think the movie took a wrong turn , or is it possible . . .	I think I may have lost my thrills for horror movies . I still love them , but now they are getting . . . what's that word ? Predictable ? Man , what has happened to me ? ! OK , moving onto the movie : D . Actually , I did like " Wrong Turn " . It had more than just the classic kids get lost in the woods and get killed . There was a little spark to it . I was very impressed . I loved the fact the killers were not just some big guy , but going back to the deformed monsters . Very rarely does a movie reach that ground . Like I said , some of it's a little predictable . But that's because I've practically seen every horror film ever made . Maybe I need a break . Excuse me , I must go cry now for saying that . sob
This movie is really starting to BUG me	OK , cheesy joke , I know , but actually the movie really did get to me . I picked up this movie at Hollywood Video , I was pretty curious on what it was , if it was a thriller , horror movie , or drama , it's pretty much a mix of all . But also William Friedkin had directed the film , William isn't just the director of The Exorcist , he's an incredible director who has many works of art under his belt . So I rented Bug and watched it last night and I have to say that this was an incredibly disturbing psychological thriller that really freaked me out . I mean , these performances were absolutely amazing , most people are raving about Ashley Judd's performance , but what about Michael Shannon ? In my opinion , he had the best performance , he was so intense and he really draws you into the scene and the story . Agnes is a woman who is pretty much on her own , she lives in a cruddy little motel , has an abusive boyfriend who is out of jail and won't leave her alone , and also lost a son a while back in a grocery store . She's also a drug addict . When her friend , R . C . , brings her friend , Peter to Agnes's house , Peter and Agnes pretty much click from the get go , but when Peter tries to get away from Agnes , he confesses the reason why , that he was part of an army experiment and he's escaped . She asks him to stay anyways , that she's so lonely , and he does , but soon they have delusions of a bug infestation and start destroying each other over something that they swear they can see and is watching them . The story is so beyond intense , I couldn't believe how much this film got to me . Especially when they reveal the ultimate damage that Peter does to his own character , it sent shivers down my spine . Ashley , Michael , and Harry all brought in great performances and really made this story incredibly interesting and scary to watch . The whole ending was beautifully shot by Friedkin , I was a little disappointed with how quickly it did end , but thinking about it , I'm not sure if there could have been a better ending , but you'll have to see what I mean when you watch it . I would recommend this film , I don't think many users are understanding what it's about or are just focusing on the wrong things here , but this movie I warn you is not for the faint of heart .
Not my favorite Hitchcock , but it's still a classic	Who thought that finally someone would tell the truth about birds ? Sorry , have a bit of a fear of them . And of course what is the movie to watch if you have a fear of birds ? The Birds ! Hitchcock did a remarkable job on this horror classic . There are a few flaws here and there . He never explains why the birds went all psychopathic . Unless what I think about birds is true . They are just scary . shudder I would recommend this for Hitchcock fans . Even people who haven't seen a Hitchcock film . The acting is above average . The script is high packed with intensity . But I'd rather stick to " Psycho " , just because well , you now know my fear .
Better than expected	When I first saw the trailer for Baby Mama , I just thought this movie was going to be a total disaster , it didn't look funny and like another typical chick flick . But my friends wanted to see it , so we saw it opening weekend , and actually I was surprised , I did like a lot better than what I was expecting . Baby Mama is something that looks like from the Lifetime Network , but it's all good , it has some really funny moments and was just cute . Amy Poehler and Tina Fey are two very funny women from Saturday Night Live , they also did Mean Girls together and made their characters an absolute joy to watch , so seeing them as the leads in this film was going to be an interesting turn . Tina Fey definitely has a lot of talent not only as a writer , but as an actress , she made her character believable and as neuritic as she was , she was still likable . Amy Poehler made her character a little too SNL at times , but these girls made the movie enjoyable and a fun flick to watch for the afternoon . Kate is a single and successful woman who seems to have it all in life , but one thing she wants so bad is a baby . But one problem , her uterus isn't liked by her doctor , in other words , she has a one in a million chance of getting pregnant . After adoption woes and sperm donor failures , she decides to get a sergeant mother who will get pregnant and give her a child . She meets white trash couple , Angie and Carl . Angie moves into Kate's apartment after her break up with Carl , so this " odd couple " has to teach each other some new moves in life . Baby Mama is actually worth the watch , I was very impressed with how much I liked it , like I said , from the trailer , it doesn't seem like a good movie , but when you watch it , you get the laughs and the smiles that the movie promises . It is a chick flick , warning to people who have a strong hatred for them , but I'm not a fan of chick flicks , and you know what ? I thought that this was just a fun movie that if you let go and even enjoy the predictability , you'll find yourself loving Baby Mama .
Who hasn't had a Woodcock in their life ? OK , that sounded gross	I was so excited to see Mr . Woodcock today , saw the matinée this morning and I have to say that Mr . Woodcock lived up to my expectations . It was a great comedy to watch and had a lot of fun laughs . I think the reason why I love this film so much is because I could totally relate to it , in junior high I was the fat kid and had the teacher who must have been the partner of Satan , he was evil . I've changed quite a bit since then , but I still think of that teacher every once in a while . So this was just such a good comedy for everyone who has had to deal with a gym teacher like Mr . Woodcock . The actors seemed to really enjoy themselves , it was cool seeing Sean William Scott out of his normal idiotic roles and into something where he just was a normal guy , he did good . Billy Bob Thorton couldn't have been a more perfect choice , he was terrific . Together they really made the story work and was actually believable . John Farley is a very successful author of the book " Letting Go " , a book on how to let go of a rough past and rebuild your life . He comes back home to surprise his mom and get a special award for his work , but he finds out his mom is dating someone he knows . Mr . Woodcock , the evil junior high gym teacher that made John's life a living hell ; and it looks like Mr . Woodcock has not changed his ways when he starts to treat " Farley " the same way he did when he was a kid . But it looks like they have to get comfortable with each other since Mr . Woodcock is marrying John's mom . The cast looked like they just had a great time . I know this story was extremely predictable , but it was all in good fun . I loved seeing John's character just loose it as the story continued . There were some really great laughs in the film , the scene that got me was definitely the pot hole scene , I'm not going to spoil it , but I guarantee you for sure that you'll get a huge laugh once you see it . Mr . Woodcock is a fun comedy that I recommend , Billy Bob is just an awesome Mr . Woodcock , he really made the movie into a blast .
Was it supposed to be a comedy or horror ?	I've always asked that . Maybe it's just a parody . But I did enjoy this 80's flick . You have to admit that it is pretty memorable . I loved all the characters . Even the bad guys . It's just fun and exciting to watch . You get your laughs , but at the same time , you get your chills . You do question what age gap this was meant for . I would recommend for pre teens and up . That's for sure . I do have one more question : If the animals can't eat after midnight , then when are they supposed to eat ? Even if it's 11 : 00 P . M . , still . . . isn't that after midnight ? Great movie from the 80's . Have fun with it .
Hugh Grant's best work	I didn't know what to expect when I decided to rent About a Boy , it looked like a typical romantic comedy . Now don't get me wrong , I absolutely love Hugh Grant , he's got such a charm , I think that's why we can all forgive that little prostitute incident , lol . But anyways , for the most part , Hugh Grant always takes on the same roles for each movie , About a Boy is no exception , he plays a conceited jerk , but this movie put a fresh new twist on your typical romantic comedy movies . It's just always the same story now with romantic comedies , we always have the same guy and girl who fight and fall in love , but About a Boy puts a different look and brings the single mothers in with a guy who absolutely hates kids . Who better to play it ? Hugh Grant has that charm to do it and make his character lovable despite his flaws . Will is a single bachelor who is enjoying his life , so much , well , maybe a little too much . His friends are telling him that he should settle down , so they set up him up with a single mother . He hates kids with a passion , but he discovers the benefits of dating a single mother : being complimented on being a wonderful guy , lots of sex , and being able to please the kids easily . So when he goes to a single parent's group , he finds a woman he likes , the woman's friend who has a 12 year old son , Marcus , they all go on picnic together . But Marcus's mother tries to kill herself , so he comes up with the clever idea to get them together so she won't feel so lonely . About a Boy is just in general a good movie , it has a strong story and very good actors . Hugh Grant and Nicholas Hoult were very great together , I just loved how they hung out together , my favorite scene was after everyone finds out how Will lied to everyone , that Marcus defended him . As despicable as Will was , at the same time , we all do make stupid mistakes and just need to learn from them . I really liked this movie , I would recommend it , it's a cute film and worth the watch .
Really good , I don't know what's with the rating on IMDb	When I saw the rating on IMDb , I wasn't too interested in seeing The Inivisible due to that , not only that , but the trailer didn't seem that interesting as well . But I had a free rental and there wasn't anything else that caught my eye and I just figured to go ahead and give this movie a look . I watched it tonite and I don't understand why there is only a 6 . 0 rating , I think it should be in the high 6 . 0 or low 7 . 0 , I've just seen so many worse films that for some reason get a good rating on this website . Trust me , The Invisible is one this year's surprises . The plot is like a new version of Ghost , a little bit of a twist , where we show the ultimate killer , your conscience . When you do something wrong , could you stay strong enough to keep it a secret ? That's what The Invisible is about . Nick is a success at school , he gets awesome grades and has lots of friends , he's going places in his future . But when his " best friend " sells him out to a troubled girl , Annie , and puts him in a situation that has nothing to do with him , Annie takes the situation to an ultimate low and almost kills Nick . She hides his body , but Nick is still alive and his spirit is begging her to help him , she's the only one that can hear him , but his time is running out and she's having a hard time dealing with the harsh consequences . The Invisible was a good film , I would highly recommend it . I thought that it was done well and the story was really good . The girl who played Annie was absolutely a perfect cast , I hope to see her in more movies in the future , her performance as Annie was terrific , she doesn't over do the self pity or under do it , she's just right on with the character . Her last scene with Nick actually made me cry , it was so selfless the way these two played it , their chemistry was perfect . I really liked the Invisible , hopefully people will give this movie a better chance , it deserves it .
A great family film	OK , I know that The Game Plan was very cheesy and extremely predictable , but who cares ? What were people expecting ? It's Disney , it's supposed to be this kind of a film . I saw The Game Plan with my friend yesterday and we both liked it , we got a few laughs from it and it was over all a well made movie . We were both very impressed with the little actress , Madison Pettis , who played The Rock's daughter , she was incredibly believable and didn't over do her role or was too cute that it made you sick . The script may not be Oscar material , but it was perfect for a family film and the story while it may not be the most original , still had it's funny and touching moments . Joe is a quarterback on Boston's football team and they are about to go to the championships . His personal life is usual the same each night , party all night with his buds and party all night with the good looking women . But all that changes when there's a stranger at the door , a little girl who claims to be his daughter , her name is Peyton and that she's his daughter from a short marriage he had . With his expensive home and party life style , Joe may need to make some changes to his life , as hard as that may be . But he ends up gaining something more in the end , a loving daughter to call him " daddy " . Like I said , this is a Disney film , don't expect Oscar worthy material , it's just a fun little family flick . No one will ever get sick of the " big guy with muscles " trying to relate to the little one's , just look at Kindergarten Cop or The Pacifier , both films were good and have a lot of fans . Besides if someone can tell me the honest truth that they were not laughing at The Rock's allergic reaction to cinnamon and started speaking like Daffy Duck , they really must not have a funny bone in their body . The Game Plan is the perfect family film for the season , it's a cute film .
Oceans of good fun !	After the sorrow disappointment that was Ocean's Twelve , I was not at all interested in seeing Ocean's Thirteen since I had a feeling it was just going to be the same thing again . But when people were seeing this film , I was hearing good things about the film . So I figured I would just wait until the rental , I just watched this film yesterday and still , I'm not a huge fan of the Ocean movies , but Thirteen is a good movie . The cast really looked like they had a great time making the film and Al Pacino was a great addition , he makes such a great bad guy . For once , I have to say that Matt Damon actually did a great job in film , I know people are going to bash me for that , but he never keeps my attention in films , but he had a great role to play in Thirteen and was a great comic relief . The story is continued with our hunky heist men . The gang is now suffering paying back the millions that they stole from Terry , so they're not exactly in the mood to get back together any time soon . But when one of their own is betrayed and double crossed by the new man in Vegas , Will Banks , they are out for revenge . Since Will is making a huge splash , he has a casino , a hotel , and millions of dollars worth of diamonds , the boys have to got to find a way to get to his heart . They band together to get this guy back and get their old schemes back in play . Ocean's Thirteen was a lot of fun to watch , it had a bunch of twists and turns at each point . I think my favorite part though was when Matt Damon was posing as Pepperidge and he was seducing Bank's assistant , even though it was a silly moment , it brought a lot of comic relief and the girl was just so funny . Not to mention how they got the diamonds out of the casino was so cool and was great eye candy . The cast did a great job and Thirteen is definitely worth the look . It was a whole lot better than Twelve , let's hope they keep it that way .
From the trailer , this looked like a cheesy over the top film , but I just watched it , I had a great time !	I have to admit that I had extremely low expectations for this film , from the trailer , it looked ridicules and probably like a flop . My friends saw it in the theater and told me that it was a fun movie , so I rented it and my mom and I just watched it together tonite and I couldn't believe that I was actually laughing so much during this movie . Despite some silly moments , it still was so much fun , the effects were kinda cheesy , but it worked really well for a family film . I definitely enjoyed the actors and how well it seemed that they got along . It looked like it was a blast making this film . Larry has a problem , he can't seem to hold a job for too long , it's disappointing to his son , but he wants to turn things around and gets hired as a security job at the museum of natural history , but little does he know when the former security guard tells him to watch out for the museum at night and gives him interesting directions , well , you know the saying that museums can bring history to life ? Well , that's exactly what this museum does , it's cursed by ancient Egyptians , and every night everything in the museum comes to life and Larry has to figure out a way to deal with it . My favorite scene without a doubt was when Dexter , the monkey , starts slapping Larry and they start slapping each other back and forth . Well , there are tons of funny moments , this movie is just perfect for not only the family but an afternoon , I'm sure you'll realize your money has been well spent when you see it . It had a great cast , fun jokes , and great effects that were not too over the top . It's just a great movie , please watch it and enjoy .
Geez , what do people have against this movie ?	I was really excited to see 1941 when it turned out to be on Bravo's 100 Funniest Movies , not to mention that when I looked at the cover at Hollywood Video , this movie had Dan Aykroyd , John Candy , John Belushi , among some of Hollywood's greatest actors . Now the fact that Steven Spielberg directed the movie got me more excited . When I checked out the rating for 1941 , I got scared , I mean 5 . 5 isn't that exciting . Especially for a Spielberg film , usually most people get excited and love the film . Now granted , Spielberg was never the king of comedies , but 1941 is a decent film that gives you a few laughs , it's just a screw ball comedy , I admit some jokes are a little random , but over all this is a film that works and is just plain fun . Yes , it's a bit long and sometimes a little odd , the story though was something that was fun because sometimes we just need a little fun with history . It's 6 days after the Pearl Harbor bombing and now the Japenese are coming after United State's pride and joy , Hollywood , lol . Basically , we just go through California citizen's lives and what they are going through . We have the wacky couple who can't seem to stay together . A silly guy with huge pride for his country . An army who seems to have a hard time getting how to actually fight . A crazed air pilot , crazy German captains , along with the Japenese who invaded the country are dressed up as Christmas trees . Well , let's just hope that they'll be alright with this silly invasion . 1941 is at times very random and doesn't know wither to be a mental comedy or a screwball comedy , but it still delivers a good laugh to those who are just looking for a fun movie . Don't go by the rating here on IMDb , I actually had fun watching this film and I'm not sure why people are giving it a hard time . But it looks like the cast had a genuinely good time making this film . The story is a bit much to follow , but it's worth a watch at least . 1941 is all in good fun , so just grab the popcorn and have a few laughs , I'm sure you'll get it with at least John Belushi's character .
OK , am I allowed not to like it ?	I just saw the movie in the theatre . The " Director's Cut " . Maybe I expected too much . But it wasn't that great . I thought that it has to be a scary movie , it's been placed higher above the " Exorcist " in the top 250 . Am I the only one who questions why there was gravity in space ? I'll assume that it takes place in the future . But when they arrive on another planet , they walk perfectly . No , uh uh , that's never going to happen . Not unless the suits they were wearing were super suits . And where did the robot thing come from ? Did anyone expect that to happen ? The alien itself only appears like in 15 minutes of the movie . Sigourny does kick ass . I admit this was a creepy movie . But not scary . Not " OH MY GOD ! AHH ! " scary . It's like " Oh , wow . OK . Ooh . " Maybe I need to give the movie another chance . I just wish they didn't say in the trailer " The scariest movie ever made " . Because I will point out more than half of the movie that could've been better . As of the acting , good job to the cast . Great setting . And it was fun to watch . But there were just too many questions : 1 . ) the gravity thing ( i mentioned ) 2 . ) they've mastered gravity , but there are no lights on the ship ? 3 . ) there is water leakage in the ship ? you'd think they'd be careful 4 . ) was there any point to the cat ? I can go on and on . But by then I'll be retired .
All in good fun	Well , I guarantee you that this is no Shrek , Shark Tale was over all an average attempt at film making for animation , but I have to admit that I still had fun watching it . I recently finally accepted the fact that computer animation is the craze and there will probably from now on be no more regular classic animation , so I've pretty much seen all the new computer animation films and Shark Tale was next on my list . While it wasn't up to par with Shrek 2 , I still kinda had fun , especially with the cast . Oscar is a fish who feels like the ultimate nobody and Lenny is a vegetarian shark who's father is kind of the Godfather of the shark world , so his dad expects him to be a meat eating rough tough shark . When Lenny's brother accidentally dies as he's chasing Oscar to eat him , his brother gets slammed on the head with an anchor and dies . Everyone thinks that Oscar killed the brother and names him sharkslayer , too afraid to go home , Lenny stays with Oscar helping him keep his rep by faking a beat up . But when the father wants to see what the sharkslayer is really all about , Oscar may loose his true love , Angie . Well , the jokes were a little off every once in a while and it wasn't as impressive as some other animated films , but I still had fun watching Shark Tale . I was absolutely in love with the cast and the animation was pretty good , you have to admit . I would recommend this for a family afternoon , I think you just have to let go and learn how to smile with this film , like I said , it's all in good fun .
Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone	That's it ! I give up ! I surrender ! White flag ! My friends want to see the new Harry Potter that is about to be released this summer , The Order of Phoenix , but they looked at my like I just lost my head when I told them I never saw the Harry Potter films . They just said I've seen every movie yet I never saw Harry Potter ? Well , I never saw the point since I don't read the books or wasn't interested in the films , it looked like typical kid's stuff to me . But my friends said they would not take me to see the movie until I've seen the films , it's now that I realize I got myself into trouble since these movies are all 2 + hours each . I just finished the first one a couple days ago . Harry Potter lives with an extremely cruel family , but there is something different about him , he can talk to snakes and make things appear and disappear . Well , he receives a letter , he's a wizard ! Not just any wizard , he is the only wizard ever to survive the wrath of Voldemort , the most wicked wizard . Harry goes to a magical school , Hogwarts , where he learns the truth of his heroic parents and meets two other wizards , Ron and Hermione who soon become his best friends and they discover the power of the sorcerer's stone and what might happen if it's put into the wrong hands . Harry Potter I have to admit is off to a good start with me , it had wonderful and magical effects that anyone could enjoy . The actors were just so perfectly cast , Maggie Smith , Alan Rickman , John Cleese , we have some of England's most brilliant actors . It's a well made film , now I still haven't read the books , so I can't base this film on a comparison . Even if I did , this is the movie and the movie itself is a magical and enchanting experience . Well , I'm onto The Chamber of Secrets , wish me luck .
Not as funny as I expected , but still I can appreciate and love this awesome film	Dr . Strangelove has to be one of the most referenced movies of all time . When I saw this movie , I could say a million parodies I have seen in my life that I now know were based on this movie . Also , I saw 100 funniest movies on Bravo , this was ranked pretty high . Not to mention this is a highly rated movie on IMDb , in fact at # 19 on the top 250 , I mean a person would have to be stupid not to check this film out after all you find out about it . I did understand the " Funny Scenes " , if that's what you could call it . I loved the colonel and Peter Sellers fighting back and refusing not to surrender . George C . Scott was hilarious . Although I'm not sure where I get these comments on how this is the funniest movie and Stanley's best . Sadly , I'm not a fan of Stanley's , so that's where I can agree , this is his best , but only by my standards . It was a funny movie , but I never laughed out loud . Well , I'm not sure what else to say , but I guess I'll never understand some top 250 films .
The Great Longneck Migration	The Land Before Time X : The Great Longneck Migration , the tenth installment in the Land Before Time series . This is the best sequel I have seen so far ! Seriously , this is a really good animated film and deserves a higher rating . Again , I am so confused , when I started watching these movies I was expecting nothing but trash from what the users have been rating them . But I always try to give my best honest feedback on the film and honestly this was a terrific story . The animation is getting a little bit more computer which I agree is sort of taking away from what the original was giving us , but it's a new generation and still the bright colors and characters were still a pleasure to watch . We finally get to meet Littlefoot's father and also more Longnecks for Littlefoot , so we get to see what his life could be like if he grew up with his mother . Plagued by mysterious dreams , Littlefoot , his grandparents and all the other Longnecks depart the Great Valley , joining up with other Longneck herds as they travel to a single location ; with Cera , Petrie , Spike , and Ducky following the herds to an enormous crater , which they believe is the culmination of their journey . Littlefoot learns that long ago , that the sun was going to fall . However , a number of Longnecks came together to this very spot and raised up their necks , lifting the Circle back to where it had been . According to this myth , this stretching of their necks is how the Longnecks got their long necks . History is about to repeat itself , and so the Longnecks have returned to the crater in order to save the sun once more . Littlefoot's friends miss him though and decide to travel to find him and take him back home meeting another Longneck along the way . However , another surprise is in store , as Littlefoot meets his father , Bron , for the first time in his whole life . However , Bron isn't alone . Since parting from his now deceased wife , he has become guardian to another young brachiosaurus , Shorty , who becomes jealous of Littlefoot since Bron is spending more time with him . One dawn , Shorty tries to run away , but Littlefoot stops him and convinces him to rejoin the migration , he even goes as far as to suggest they become brothers . At this point , Littlefoot's friends arrive . Soon after , following a Sharptooth attack there is a furious battle that the group must face . The Land Before Time X : The Great Longneck Migration is the best sequel that I've seen so far of the series . I can't wait to see the next sequel which I do have to wait for sadly , so a comment will be coming soon . But I have to tell you the humor is much more for the kids as the adults , I even laughed a few times , which I have with the previous sequels , but not as much as with The Great Longneck Migration . I mainly loved watching Littlefoot's friends going on their own to find Littlefoot , especially Ducky and Spike , they are so cute together . This was a touching story as well with Littlefoot discovering his dad and the relationship they could have together . I highly recommend this movie , if you are going to watch one of the Land Before Time sequels , I suggest this one .
A sweet and lovable kid's movie	Just recently , I saw D2 and D3 , my friend unfortunately did not have the first Mighty Ducks movie , so I had to watch those first then rent this one . The second and the third were pretty good movies , but I felt bad , because it felt like you're getting into a group of friends , and you don't know their history , you weren't there ? You know that feeling , and as silly as it sounds , that's how I felt watching the sequels without seeing the first one . Gordon is a lawyer who has had a little trouble with the lying in his career , therefore , he must do community service . When he sees a group of young pre-teen troubled youths playing a game of hockey , remembering his childhood love of hockey , he volunteers to become their coach in the Pee-Wee games . He starts off on a rocky relationship since he doesn't like kids , but he grows to love them and they do back learning that there is more to a game than just winning , but it'd be nice since they end up in the championships . I loved The Mighty Ducks , I felt like it was a terrific family film and I'm surprised it wasn't played in my childhood since I was seven years old when it came out , but you know the saying , better late then never , right ? I would highly recommend this up lifting story for any family !
Radu's romantic side	Now I know that most of the Subspecies fans prefer the second movie over Bloodlust : Subspecies III , but I think this was actually my favorite of the series . This is where we see a little bit of Radu's weakness and that he can have mortal feelings for another , even love . Weither or not he's in love with Michelle , I think he admires her innocence and beauty , the power she holds over him , she knows it and definitely takes advantage of it , who can blame her , right ? But I love how the story goes into Radu , he fears this emotion , understandably , and it blinds him . This is strangely a tragic love story that really intrigues me , it goes from teacher / student to love / hate . Radu though I promise still delivers the good scares like the other Subspecies movies . Radu and his student , Michelle , are up to a lot , while he teaches her what it means to be a vampire , Radu's mother thinks it's a bad idea to keep her . Michelle's sister , Morgan , will not give up and she will do anything to save her sister's should . Michelle tells Radu that she can never love him , that she hates him and would rather just die instead of being a vampire but Radu wishes for her to stay with him forever . Bloodlust : Subspecies III is just continuing where the second Subspecies left off . My favorite scene was where Michelle is outside and Radu comes from behind her and she asks what can kill them , the dialog he delivers as well as his expressions , for a low budget film , Anders Hove is a good actor and makes Radu very believable . The scene was beautifully done between him and Denise . This was a fun series to get into , I really have enjoyed it , these are the horror films I've been looking for and would highly recommend them for a good scare .
Fast paced and action packed !	I have just heard so much about Run , Lola , Run or Lola Rennt as it is pronounced in Germany . I heard about it on I love the 90's , my 1001 movies you must see before you die book , and the Simpsons did a parody of it . I always pass the foreign film section at my video store , but something just told me to check it out real quick to see maybe if there was a film that looked interesting and I saw Run Lola Run and just grabbed it . Now , while I'm still confused about how this movie is on the top 250 on IMDb , I still found it to be very entertaining and an interesting way of making film . Lola gets a phone call from her boyfriend who lost a sack of one hundred thousand dollars ( American ) and the mobsters he was supposed to deliver it too are going to come and kill him if he doesn't have the money with him . Lola has 20 minutes to get a hundred thousand dollars , in three scenario's , the director gives us different ways of seeing this story and also some different endings that keep us going and wondering what might happen next . I would say that maybe because I am very used to American film making , maybe I just didn't get it as much as others to where I would give it a ten on the rating system . But it's all good , I still did enjoy the movie , it had great action and kept me going into a different ending three times ! I would recommend it for fun , it had decent acting and a very interesting way of making film , like music video styles and a bit of Japnamation , but I'm still not sure if this is one of the greatest movies of all time , you know ?
Funny , but Apatow's most memorable film ? Not really	I work at a movie theater and we got Pineapple Express , to be honest with it's R rating , I was expecting as big of a turn out as we had , one thing that I noticed was the crowd though , how similar they looked , also their behavior was the same as well . It was kind of disturbing , but they came out of the movie theater screaming in laughter , now I'm assuming they are pot heads , no offense to those who are , but I was still curious if this movie was seriously funny to those who were either stoned or not stoned . I saw this movie , of course I'm not a pot head , so I saw it sober , thought this was a very funny movie , but I wasn't too impressed . I know I'm going to get a lot of haters for this comment , but seriously , there wasn't anything too special about this movie that would make it stand out as a stoner comedy , not to mention a production of the Apatow group , the story has no likable characters and is pretty predictable . Dale Denton is a process server , he is 25 years old , has an 18 year old girlfriend in high school , and is a pot head . After witnessing a murder , Dale runs to his pot dealer , Saul , who unknowingly is connected to the murder in some way . But Saul helps Dale try to escape the murderers who are after him , discovering how they have already gotten to his drug dealer and are easily getting closer to him and Dale . Together they try to out run and figure a way to get out of this situation with good old fashioned Commando style action . Now I don't want people to get me wrong , this is still a very funny comedy , has some really great moments like any other Apatow production . I seriously could not stop laughing when Saul was driving with Dale trying to escape the police and he can't see through the windshield , so Dale suggests to be like the action movie scenario where they normally push out the window like it's nothing , and instead Saul gets his foot caught in the window while driving . There are some other really good moments , but I don't want to spoil the movie for you . Pineapple Express is worth the look for sure , but it didn't really stand out for me like other comedies . I just think the hype is giving this movie too much credit , I'd say pay for the matinée .
A treasure from the 70's and an inspiration for future comic book / super hero movies	Is it cheesy ? Yes ! Is it cliché ? Oh , yes ! But this was so original for it's time and the effects were astonishing ! While it is very corny and goes over the top with the cliché hero / villain relationship , Superman is just a fun little movie to watch . Despite that I'm still digging Batman even more , but Superman is cool to watch too . : D I had heard that there was a new Superman movie coming out and I had not seen the original Superman movie in a while , so I figured I should re watch before seeing the new one . Comic book nerds , I know they'll love this movie ! : D No offense to those who are ! Remember , you'll be the rich one's in the future ! But in general , I think anyone can enjoy this fun and optimistic super hero movie !
Not a great Hitchcock film , but still I didn't mind at all watching it	Once again , even though I felt that this was a little off the Hitchcock styling , I still over all enjoyed Family Plot . It had an interesting plot , great actors , and it kept me watching the whole way through . I couldn't believe that Karen Black was in a Hitchcock movie ! She was so cool . I know that this was also kind of Hitchcock's last film , so we owe him some respect for a well done picture . Basically , this movie is about a con artist couple eventually find themselves being hunted by jewel thieves , because they may know a little bit too much information , or at least the jewel thieves think they do . Not to mention the thieves have kidnapped a minister for a hefty ransom , and when the girl con artist finds herself in the wrong place at the wrong times , things turn grime for her . But we'll see who has the last laugh in this twist at every corner type of movie . Like I said , over all Family Plot is a very decent movie that deserves a little more respect . It does loose a little extra Hitchcock styling , but I think he knew what he was doing and needed a new film , or at least a new look . So sit back for our genius ' real last motion picture and enjoy !
Whoa	" Constantine " , " Constantine " , " Constantine " , you started off so well , what happened ? Sorry , I just watched " Constantine " last night . Even though , I'm not kidding , about everyone I met who had seen this film said it was stupid , I still was interested . It did look interesting and fun to watch . First off , computer effects . I understand that CGI effects are needed in this type of a movie . It wasn't bad at first , we had some good eye candy , then it seemed like they should have quit while they were ahead . It got a little out of control and you could tell that it was beyond fake . This isn't The Matrix , guys . Second , story . It was going so well , I mean , you actually believe Keanu's character and story . Then , oh , man , the ending . Oh , what a sad ending it was . It had really no point . I didn't understand about 35 % of the movie , because it never explained itself . Over all , this wasn't bad . I mean , I would actually watch it again . There are just a few complaints . It's not as bad as everyone said it was , but it just isn't that great either . So , I think this is one of those movies you should judge for yourself .
An interesting view on the war between nosferatu and lycanthropes	A little touch of " Blade " and " American Werewolf In London " , and what do you have ? " Underworld " , a movie in which vampires and werewolves are at war . Of course they do not understand each other . So , they hate each other . SPOILERSKate Beckingsale's character is a vampire who is loyal to her clan . When she notices a man is spotted by the lycanthropes , she is curious why they are looking at him . She tries to find out . And she ends up breaking rules in her clan . She falls for the soon to be werewolf . And realizes that it was the vampires who caused the war , and what was wrong all along with her master . He killed her family and saved her , because she reminded him of her daughter whom he killed due to her falling in love with the master werewolf . And he is betrayed once again by Kate . Excellent effects , a little to matrix-y for me though . I enjoyed the story . And wouldn't mind a rent or a buy if I'm entregged once again .
What would you do on your last night with your friends ?	That's pretty much what sums this movie up . Everyone is graduating and it's their last night together , and how they spend it turns up to be in pretty funny situations . There is what they might call a Revenge of the Nerds type of situation , a kid and a rebel hottie , a man finally getting a dangerous adventure , and a questioning relationship finally has closure . I can see where this movie had such impact back in the 70's , but to be honest , I wasn't that impressed . I think maybe I was expecting too much because of the fact that this movie is practically mentioned everything people bring up cinema of the 70's . Also , it was mentioned in a few of my film books and one of the funniest movies of all time . I would recommend this for movie buffs , just so they could say that they at least saw it , but honestly , I think it's lost some effect for this generations . But I would never diss this movie , just for the fact it had me on the floor sometimes in laughter , and that line " Your car is uglier than I am ! " . LOL !
Visually stunning ; but Martin's best work and best picture ? No .	See , at the Oscars , despite the fact that I had not seen " The Aviator " , I was cheering for it . Because I am a huge Martin Scorsesse fan and I only saw two other movies that were nominated . Leonardo without a doubt has become a very fine actor , and the clip they showed for his nomination of " Best Actor " looked extremely interesting . So , when it came to best picture I was all for " The Aviator " or " Finding Neverland " , but then " Million Dollar Baby " took it and I was upset . Still , I had to see " The Aviator " . While the movie has a very stunning atmosphere and fine actors that can steal the scene , it's not a very interesting story . Howard Hughs , no , I do not know that much about him . In fact , I didn't realize what he really did until I saw this movie . But he just seemed like any ordinary a-hole in life . The movie could have been something spectacular , but the person and story just didn't interest me . So , I'm so sorry Martin , you were not handed anything that could have been gold . This was the problem , because it was too long and the main character wasn't that interesting , you loose track of the film . Otherwise , this is a good all around film to watch for a Saturday . Is it a watch ? Oh , yes . 2 hours and 45 minutes of Leo is a little much to handle . But I would recommend it to see good flick , but that's all it is . Just a good flick . - To Martin : We know you can do better !
I wonder if there will ever be a remake that will be as loved as the first one	The first " King Kong " is a classic . It's almost nearly impossible to make a good remake . One that was better than the first . Examples , " The Thing " , " House on Haunted Hill " , and " Thirteen Ghosts " . Those were good remakes . They also surpased the first . This " King Kong " is almost there . It really is . I was impressed . They did of course change a few things . The effects are pretty cheesy , but so was the first one . What did you expect ? I would recommend if you enjoyed the first " King Kong " . Just to see what it was like . As a movie to watch again and again , I'd skip . What do you think ? In 2005 , will it be Beauty that killed the beast ? Again ?
OK , I'm starting to miss the good old hand drawn animation	I just watched Cars yesterday and like I said in a previous comment , I am getting more into the animation flicks this year , especially since a lot of those movies are very good and very funny . Cars is the same exception with every animated movie that was made this year , it had some very funny moments , great animation , but it just felt like once again , there was nothing special . Cars is about this one car , McQueen , a very famous race car who is about to win the " Piston Cup " . But when he is traveling on the road on his employee's truck , he accidentally falls off landing in a cruddy town where he ends up destroying the road . As a punishment , he must stay there until he perfects the road once again , but in the mean time , he makes some excellent friends and a lovely porche acquaintance , Sally . The story is very sweet and the animation was great , not to mention an all star cast really brought the film together , but like I said , just nothing is surprising me any more . Which is a shame , and I think others are starting to agree more that we miss the old animation , it's now just the same thing over and over again . But don't shy away from Cars , it was a good family film .
Never underestimate the power of denial	Thank God I live in Chicago . . . Just Kidding ! Boy , that wasn't a good way to start off this comment . : P I just watched An Inconvenient Truth because my mom has just been driving me insane with her watching all this global warming stuff on the weather and history channel , I just wanted to get my facts straight since I don't watch that much television and could finally get her to quiet down about it . But this turned into a decent and straight to the facts documentary about what has been happening to our planet for the past 4 decades . First a paragraph on the two things that ticked me off about this film . First off , Al Gore , there were some clips about his childhood , his son being in an accident , and how he lost the election in 2000 , I have one question , unless I missed something , what did that have to do with the documentary ? And secondly , I'm so sick of America living in constant fear of this and that , and An Inconvenient Truth is well , inconvenient ! It's just adding fuel to the fire . However , I believe this is a movie not to be missed , because I'm going to admit this for the first time , I was in a lot of denial . I didn't realize truly how much we take the earth for granted and we need to try our best to help prevent these horrible tragedies from happening . Although I'm still not sure if this will be happening in the near future , only God can tell us that , and we just have to do the best we can to prevent it . An Inconvenient Truth is a very important documentary we should watch , for at the sake of future generations .
So , did they exactly teach Mrs . Tingle anything ?	Teaching Mrs . Tingle , this was the movie I saw multiple times on HBO when it was released in 1999 and I couldn't get enough of this movie . I absolutely loved it , I think because I was graduating Jr . high at the time , I actually expected high school to be like this . True , it was a bit far fetched at the time , but still it was a lot of fun to watch . Who didn't fantasize about treating a teacher like this in high school , the one who absolutely gives you a hard time for no reason and just won't lighten up on you ? OK , granted I don't think we wanted to play " Mistress of Pain " by tying our teachers up , but still it was a fun idea and this is just a fun movie to watch . Leigh Ann is a high school student who wants to achieve top grades to become valedictorian . However , her grade in History class is threatened by her sadistic teacher , Mrs . Tingle . Mrs . Tingle has a special dislike for Leigh Ann and down-grades Leigh Ann's well-designed project . The teacher also stumbles upon Leigh Ann with the final exam , which had been stolen and planted in Leigh Ann's backpack without her knowing , and threatens to have her expelled for it . Leigh Ann and her two friends , Luke and Jo Lynn , head to Mrs . Tingle's house that night and try to convince the teacher that Leigh Ann is innocent . Mrs . Tingle , however , does not listen . They try to grab Mrs . Tingle and she is accidentally knocked unconscious . The students panic and tie Mrs . Tingle to her bed . Pretending to be Mrs . Tingle , Jo Lynn calls the school the next morning and feigns illness in order to buy themselves some time , but all are unsure of what they should do next . Mrs . Tingle eventually reveals that she hates Leigh Ann because Leigh Ann has the potential to leave their small town and experience life , but her honesty only furthers her captors ' dislike of her . She also opines that Leigh Ann has not got the guts to do anything that will get her in trouble ; you know that that's not a good thing to say to the goodie goodie who needs adventure . While the movie has a bit of an unbelievable plot , it's just a nice escape and a good movie . It was funny , witty and intelligent . I loved Helen Merrin in this movie , she was just awesome as Mrs . Tingle , couldn't have been a better villain and was someone that you just loved to hate . Katie Holmes actually held herself up well and had good chemistry with then hottie of the day Barry Watson . The cast all together had good chemistry . To be honest I'm surprised this movie didn't get much notice after it's release , who knows if it might be a cult classic somewhere down the line , but I think it's a fun movie and if you get the chance to watch it , I'd suggest you take advantage .
The Beavis and Butthead version of Dog Day Afternoon , but still with some terrific laughs !	Honestly , at first , I wasn't expecting too much , I mean a movie called " Airheads " first off and Adam Sandler , Brendan Fraser , and Steve Bushemi , interesting choices . But this was just a great plot with some good laughs . Basically Brendan and his band just want a radio station to play their demo , so they can be noticed and get a record deal . When all else just fails , they stick up the radio station with some phony water guns , they do look real though , and will not leave until they get their demo played . With a terrific supporting cast and some fun moments that can get anyone cheering for the band , I think anyone can have fun and enjoy this brainless comedy . You'll have to trust me on this one , it sounds like a dumb movie , but it's all in good times . I'd highly recommend this one !
Not your typical romantic comedy , which was a good thing	I wasn't expecting much from The Break-Up , not to mention the pretty harsh reviews on this film from IMDb , I was pretty scared . But I saw the trailer again for this film that it was being released on DVD and I have to admit that I was extremely curious . After all , this was a huge deal being shot in Chicago ! Over all , I'd actually say that The Break-Up was a funny and cool film to watch . Gary and Brooke have been a great couple , they get along great and have great chemistry , they also live together . But time has taken it's toll on the couple and they break up , the problem is that they're fighting over who will move out first . Another problem , both want to get back together , but have too much pride to admit it , so they play pranks on each other until they just end up destroying each other's feelings . The ending was a little . . . well , I don't want to give it away , but it was more realistic than other typical romantic comedies . Give this one a try , it is funny and not to mention just over all a good movie . Vince and Jen made a cute couple and did great together in The Break-Up .
Good movie , strange accents	Valkryie , a movie that takes on the closest assassination to Adolf Hitler , being such a huge history buff , sadly I knew how this was going to end . I love walking out of the theater hearing the teenagers go " What the heck ? ! I thought Hitler was going to die ! " , I bow my head in shame . I know that there were a lot of people who had a thing about Tom Cruise being the leading man , which I have to admit I had a few questions , but you cannot deny despite his madness , he is a good actor over all . I admit he can be cocky , but he got the film done with pretty decent taste . I just have to laugh though because in this film we have every kind of accent there is : American , English , German , EVEN POLISH ! A Polish Nazi ? LOL , I'm sure that history must be proud of this movie . But over all it's a decent representation of the attempted assassination of Adolf Hitler . During World War II , Wehrmacht Colonel Claus von Stauffenberg is severely wounded in Tunisia , and is evacuated home to Nazi Germany . Meanwhile , Major General Henning von Tresckow attempts to assassinate Adolf Hitler by smuggling a bomb aboard the Führer's private airplane . The bomb , however , fails to detonate and Tresckow safely retrieves it to conceal his intentions . After learning that the Gestapo has arrested General Hans Oster , he orders General Olbricht to find a replacement . After recruiting von Stauffenberg into the German Resistance , Olbricht delivers von Stauffenberg to a meeting of the secret committee which has coordinated previous attempts on Hitler's life . The members include General Ludwig Beck , Dr . Carl Goerdeler , and Erwin von Witzleben . The Colonel is stunned to learn that no plans exist for after Hitler's assassination . After a bombing raid on Berlin , he lights upon using the plan Operation Valkyrie , which involves the deployment of the Reserve Army to maintain order in the event of a national emergency . The plotters carefully redraft the plan so that they can dismantle the Nazi regime after assassinating Hitler , by overthrowing the SS and imprisoning Hitler's closest advisors . Realizing that only General Fromm , the head of the Reserve Army , can initiate Valkyrie , they offer him a position as head of the Wehrmacht in a Post-Nazi Germany and recruit him into the fold : however , Fromm initially refuses . With the rewritten plan needing to be signed off by Hitler himself , von Stauffenberg visits the Führer at his Berghof estate in Bavaria . In the presence of his inner circle , Hitler praises von Stauffenberg's heroism in North Africa not realizing the Colonel's true intentions . Besides the accents and the A-list actors , honestly this could've been a made for TV film . It's not exactly the hit I think the studio was hoping for . Normally most WWII films are a big hit , but the problem was the advertising , the trailer I felt was a bit inappropriate , and the actors , I felt that this if not made in German should have just been with English actors or all American because all the accents were throwing me off . But the film is definitely worth the watch , I just suggest if you are ignorant when it comes to history , please for the love of God , do some research before watching a film like this , not just because Tom Cruise is in it .
Surprisingly good !	I remember back in the day when Jersey Girl came out and it was right around the time the " Bennifer " days were coming to an end and we just suffered the mass bomb that was " Gigli " . Many were calling this movie " Gigli 2 " , I just couldn't believe they would put Jennifer Lopez and Ben Affleck together in a film again after all the innocent bystanders had to put up with , but they did . But I don't know why , maybe because it's already 4 years later after all that craziness , I decided to go ahead and rent Jersey Girl and just see what it was about . I watched it last night and I couldn't believe my eyes , I actually liked this movie . It wasn't your typical romantic comedy , it was something different and really enjoyable . Kevin Smith , who is more famous for Clerks , made a funny and genuinely good film that anyone can enjoy . Gertie Trinke is a little girl who is telling her story about her family and how they came to be . Her father , Ollie , was once a successful man in New York who was the publicity for famous musicians . But when his wife Gertrude dies in childbirth with their daughter , Ollie has to learn to grow up , but he looses his job after calling Will Smith a no body who won't get another movie . So Ollie and his dad raise Gertie , who teaches Ollie that there's more to life than just the riches . Jersey Girl is a good film , I don't know why anyone would say that this is a bad film , I understand people not liking it , but the story was very decent and the acting was I'd say above average . One of the things I loved was that the story was very human , the little girl who played Gertie , Raquel Castro , was perfect for the role and didn't over do anything or made her character annoying . Ben Affleck , who I normally cannot watch in a movie was very good in Jersey Girl , his little talk with his infant girl about loosing his wife was touching . Maybe because I'm a girl or something , maybe that's why I loved the film , but I just thought it was good and I do recommend it .
A good movie with some minor flaws	Well , this is the MTV version of Romeo and Juliet . I honestly really can't stand Claire Daine's acting . I think she really sucks . But over all , her and Leonardo do heat up the scenes . There were some things I questioned about . Like the fight scene between Mercutio and Tybolt . Their fight was supposed to be playful like . Not all over dramatic . Not till the end is it supposed to be dramatic . They didn't really get into the Paris's character . And I didn't really feel the effect of the prince , it seemed like he was a father trying to disapline his children more then protecting the law . The Capulet's party , that's something I could go on and on about . But I have to say , it was an interesting approach to an excellent play done by da man , Shakespeare . I saw this in the theater in 1996 , and loved it at first . But then I realized it could of been done better . But it's still worth a watch .
Very touching	Little Man Tate was one of my favorite movies as a child , I don't know why , but maybe because my grandmother and I bonded over this movie , it's just special to me . But I was a little disappointed to see a low rating on IMDb , I think this is an absolute treasure of a film . Jodie and Dianne are just such a terrific pair of actresses and are perfect casting for the film . I know Jodie Foster was in charge of the film and she did a terrific job . The boy who played Fred was so charming and fit the role perfectly . The story is so touching and beautiful , not to mention original since the story of gifted children isn't really discussed that well . Fred is a young boy who is extremely gifted , his intelligence is something very special . But his mom , DeeDee , doesn't really let him expand since she is a single mom wanting her son just to be normal . But Fred is discovered by Jane Grierson , a professor of highly intelligent and gifted children , giving Fred the chance to expand his world and even takes him to college at a young age . Fred meets interesting characters throughout his journey learning that maybe life has more to offer than what he used too . Little Man Tate is a very good movie and very charming . I know some might find it a little boring , but honestly , you have got to give this movie a chance , it has great drama and some fun comedy along the way . David Hyde Pierce was such a fun addition to the cast , he really makes his screen presence enjoyable , so does Dianne . But the whole cast is just perfect and seemed to enjoy doing this movie together . I would highly recommend this movie , it's a good one to watch .
Just as much fun as Next Friday	Seriously , people , where's your sense of humor ? Again I thought that Friday After Next turned out to be a great film that had a lot of really funny humor that nearly had me rolling on the floors laughing . Ice Cube did a great job with these stories and made it a Lord of the Rings of the hood type of trilogy . I loved Friday After Next , the story rocked and the actors were back and it looked like they had a great time performing together again . I know that this movie is so stereotypical , but it was all in good fun , you know ? Craig and Day Day have jobs as security men in a strip mall and they find themselves being tormented by their land lady for the rent money . When Day Day abuses his power of security and has men go after him for throwing their grandmothers off the corner , he and Craig are fired . They decide to throw a party to pay the rent money by charging party fees and Craig does fall for another woman , but she's a bit harder to get than the others . I loved the pimp and Damon's characters , they were just so funny , especially coming out of the party with Damon's partners in a clamp ! You'll have to watch the movie to see what I mean . I highly recommend Friday After Next to anyone , it's a great movie that I honestly had a good time laughing with and I am not ashamed to admit that , I don't get the low rating , because this was a fun movie . Please , don't judge so harshly , you'll find yourself loving every joke better and better .
Very touching and has some comedic moments	I have to admit , in some strange way , I enjoyed Guarding Tess very much . Despite it being predictable and they could have worked the comedy a little better , especially with Shirly , I think this was a decent little movie that anyone could enjoy . I think Shirly and Nicolas has very good chemistry . Nick also did a great performance for such a small movie , I felt for him so much in the end . You'll see what I mean on that part , I think we all could feel for him . It's just a nice movie that has some very heart touching moments , so I would recommend for a Saturday afternoon . I think you'll enjoy it .
They brought it	I was pleasantly surprised . I thought this was going to be so stupid , but I decided to watch it with my friends and I got a few laughs . It's not the best movie I've seen , I'm sure same with others . But it's worth a look . It is a teen movie , that's a minus . And Eliza Dusku's character went from punk to teen boppy ? But I won't complain too much . Just give it a shot .
The original will always rule , but this movie does deliver	It was a scary movie . But it's not a remake , more of a sequal . It was kind of insult to Gunnar Hanson , but it's a fun movie for a stormy night . Jessica Beil's character is the herion of the story . She did do an excellent job . Leatherface , he was effective . The story was believable . Of course it is 1000 times gorier than the original TCM . But after all it is 2003 . Speaking of which that was the only thing that bothered me . It was set in 1973 , but did anyone else notice that the clothes were updated ? Oh , well . It's watchable .
Dude !	I came home from a hard day of work , and to tell the truth , I needed a melt down . That's maybe the only reason why I enjoyed this movie . Because I seriously had my doubts renting it , but I think that Jack Black is a very funny actor . All I needed was a good laugh and I got it . True , this is one of those " Dude , where's my brain ? " movies . Sometimes you just need those though . The people I work with told me that this was a pretty stupid movie , and it is . But I think people shouldn't be in a serious mood for this movie . For an intelligent comedy or a good movie kind of day , no . This is not the movie for you , but if you need a meltdown after a hard day , then by all means give this movie a chance . It's really not that bad , and you get more than a few laughs . But still , if I were Colin Hank's character , I think I still would've wanted to go to Standford . :
So so close to being a great film	I have to admit , I was looking for a romance movie . Why ? I'm not sure . I have to figure it out first . Getting onto the movie , I was in the mood for this type of genre , so maybe that's why I kinda liked it . Joseph Fiennes , I have been seeing him quite often now . I have now seen 4 of his movies , and he is very sexy , I give him that . But he gets practically the same role in every film that I've seen him in . What's with the cheating on his spouse or making the girl leave her boyfriend for him ? I . . . I . . . ah , well ! In some ways I can see a girl leaving their ex behind for him . He does do a great job in the film . Ray Liotta , what a great bad guy ! I've probably seen him in about 4 or 5 films , among one of my favorites " Goodfellas " . He's an excellent actor who is very under rated . The problem is , again , stereotyping . He's always the villain . Even though he is a very good one at that , I'd like to see him in a different role . But his acting in here , more mob than insanely jealous husband . That girl , sorry , don't remember her name , she wasn't too bad . But she wasn't too convincing . In some ways the passion lacked a little on her side , she could've put more into being tossed between her husband and the man she truly loves . The story is actually very good . Even though not original , I wouldn't actually mind buying the film for a good price . It's nothing special , but it's a decent flick I would recommend . - Almost there .
Radu : the vampire Yoda	I got the great opportunity last night to see all the Subspecies movies , normally when you get into the sequels , they're disappointing and you don't get into them , they also ruin the series . But thankfully Bloodstone : Subspecies 2 is a different story . This is a fun sequel that really develops a story instead of the typical bite and gore vampire film . We get a little closer insight of Radu's history , who he is and how he has become Radu , also that he has mortal feelings at times , especially for his new protégé , Michelle . The reason why this series is so interesting I think is because it provides the scares while going into a very interesting story about vampires and makes it a great night for horror movies . Radu is back , after arising from his decapitation , well , you'll have to see how they pull it together , he finds his brother , Stephan resting and kills him . He goes to another coffin to find Michelle , who is waiting for her transformation of being a vampire , but before Radu can kill her , the sun comes up and burns him , he runs , Michelle grabs the bloodstone and gets as far away as she can . Megan , her sister , has come to Romania to find Michelle , but finds out about Michelle's new . . . life style . Bloodstone : Subspeices 2 goes deeper and isn't the typical horror movie , it has a great story . It of course still delivers on the good scares , of course mostly due to Radu and how chilling his performance is . Then his mom comes into the scene and makes The Mummy look like Madonna with that chilling look . We are family in this sequel , it's fun and definitely worth the look , this is such a cool series to get into , I recommend it for the horror genre fans .
Actually , I think I liked this one better than the first two	The Pink Panther Strikes Again is the completion to the trilogy of the Pink Panther . Once again the detective is up to his clumsy ways of trying to save the world away from a man who has a machine that will make very important things disappear , maybe even a city or country ! My favorite scene was definitely when the detective dresses up as a dentist and comes to the villain's toothache pains . The laughing gas gets to both of them and together they just have a good time pulling out teeth that don't need to be pulled out . This is a pretty entertaining movie and I'm now kind of interested in seeing the remake . Hopefully it's a good one .
As cheesy as it was , you have got to admit that it was a fun movie !	My Super Ex Girlfriend turned out to be a pleasant surprise for me , I was really expecting a horrible movie that would probably be stupid and predictable , and you know what ? It was ! But this movie did have so many wonderful laughs and a fun plot that anyone could get a kick out of . I know that this was a very cheesy movie , but Uma and Anna were just so cool and Steve was such a great addition along with a great cast that looked like they had so much fun and that's what made the movie really work . Jenny Johnson ( scary , that's my best friend's actual name ) is not your typical average librarian looking woman , when Matt , your average male , asks her out , he's in for more than he expected , he's asked G-Girl out on a date , the super hero of the world ! But when he finds out what a jealous and crazy girl she really is and decides that it may be a good idea that they spend some time apart , but Jenny won't have it since he's fallen for another girl , Hannah , and she will make his life a living hell , I mean , let's face it , he couldn't have chosen a better girl to break up with . The effect were corny , but you seriously move past them quickly , the story and cast made the story really work and I loved Uma in this movie , it was such a step up from Prime . My Super Ex Girlfriend is a fun movie that you shouldn't really take seriously , it's just a cute romantic comedy that I think if I could get a laugh out of it , anyone could .
Never trust a bunny !	I was just walking down the isle at Blockbuster Video and noticed " Hoodwinked ! " , I really got into the animation videos this year , so I figured to give it a shot and I have to say that I'm glad that I did . Hoodwinked is a really good and funny movie , it took the most simple childhood story of " Little Red Riding Hood " and turned it into a great animated twist on the story . Who ever knew that the wolf or granny had a different side of the story , right ? Well , that's what Hoodwinked is about . Little Red Riding Hood is on her way to see her Granny , who also happens to be famous for her sweets , and of course , she gets a big surprise by the Big Bad Wolf . But instead of the way the typical story goes , the police arrest all of these suspects wondering what happened , and we go through each of their stories , and they all just happen to meet . But there's a big twist when we find out that there is more than meets the eye to this typical story . Even though this wasn't the best animated film I have seen , I loved Hoodwinked ! It had a great script and was a great family film that anyone could enjoy . My only thing was that this movie had quite the cast , but you really couldn't tell who's voice was who's , which makes me think that they used computers , which isn't impressive . But I would always highly recommend Hoodwinked , especially just to see that cute little Twitchy .
Either you loved it or hated it , I happened to love it	Lately , I've been enjoying my social life more than getting back into my movie hobby , so apologies for the delay on my comments for those who enjoy them . ; ) I was looking for a movie to watch and my mom had recommended for me to watch The Royal Tennenbaums and that it is a very dark humor type of movie . So I figured I'd give it a shot . I really did enjoy this movie . For some reason I really got into the humor , which is kind of weird , but I loved how quirky it was . Gene Hackman without a doubt steals this movie with his incredible performance as Royal , who fakes his fatal illness just so he can get back into his family . Actually to be honest , all the actors pretty much had flawless performances . I can see where people wouldn't like this movie , but I think it is one of those love / hate movies that you just have to give a chance . But I would recommend this one for drama and independent movie lovers .
I have to admit , I actually laughed more than few times	I'm not sure why , but I guess I was interested in seeing the first Hot Shots since my mom only has the sequel and I noticed the movie in Blockbuster , I also love Charlie Sheen in comedies , he works so well in spoofs . Not to mention all in all , I do love spoofs , most work for me . It's just the kind comedy that I like . Hot Shots ! proved itself to be a worthy spoof that is more than worth watching . It spoofs Top Gun , An Officer and a Gentleman , 9 Weeks , Gone with the Wind , Rocky , among many other movies . Topper is a pilot who is wanted back in the navy and falls for a woman , but he has an edge is considered a rebel . Cary Elwes gives him a hard time constantly , especially since his father caused Cary's father to have a freak plane accident . Cary is also in love with Topper's woman and wants revenge . Hot Shots is a great comedy that I have to admit is a guilty pleasure , but it has so much that most comedies lack now a days . It's just a fun innocent movie that deserves a little bit of a higher rating . Charlie Sheen rocks in comedies , although they have destroyed my new favorite guilty pleasure , 9 Weeks , it's all good .
Actually it was pretty good , weird , but good	I know this film doesn't have that good of a rating , but actually I thought this was an interesting film . It had such an incredible story to it , it is set in the 80's and is about the club kids and how clubbing came to be so popular . To be different was so cool and the make up , the sex , the drugs were such a way of being released from the " normal " world . Where Alig was going into such high places , you guess it , it can only go downward . Seth and Maculy are just so adorable in this film , I just loved their chemistry and how they played off each other . These were such risky roles , but they took them on and accepted them into their own . They also researched the film and I believe should get more credit for it . It's a new age Rocky Horror Picture Show , sit back and feel fabulous !
A little over rated , but still has some very funny moments	Gosh , have I heard it all about Blazing Saddles . How funny it is and just how it's Mel's best comedy . There I would disagree , I would still recommend Young Frankenstein or Spaceballs over this any day . But still , I have to admit , there are some extremely funny moments in the film . Such as the ending Hollywood scene or the sheriff's welcoming to the village . Especially the line " Where the white women at ? ! " . This movie really bordered on the edge with it's racism and sex jokes , that is what makes Mel the king of comedy , he always knew how to push the rules . Just to be honest though , I wasn't laughing as hard as I did for Young Frankenstein , Robin Hood : Men in Tights , or Spaceballs . But still for just the sake of seeing and Madeline Kahn's unforgettable performance , have fun !
Oh , come on ! Let go ! Trust me , it's not that bad !	OK , not Oscar material and this was pretty badly made . But again like most brainless comedies , I walked in the theater with a good mood and expecting a laugh and I got that with " Scary Movie 2 " . I mean people are being so harsh on this film , I understand , I know this isn't the greatest movie or comedy . But if you aren't expecting fun and laughter , I think normally you just feel like bashing the movie then . We have some of the old cast members from the original Scary Movie : Anna Farris , a surprising return of Regina Hall , and Marlon and Shawn Wayne . This Scary Movie took on the films like The Exorcist ( hilarious scene by the way ) , Poltergeist , The Haunting , Mission Impossible , Charlie's Angels , and What lies beneath . With some great add ons like Tim Curry , I just had a great time . Tori Spelling , yeah , she's a bit scary , but for some reason she still gets her equal share of laughs . The Butler just killed me with the hand . Yes , it was gross , but I think you just have to let go and just go with the joke . Scary Movie 2 isn't the best comedy ever , but it's a decent one with your brain turned off . Sick jokes , yes , and very crude one's , this movie isn't for everyone . But I think if you enjoyed the first Scary Movie , you'll enjoy this one too !
I had fun , enjoy this for what it is , we don't get many family films like this any more	The Flinstones , next to The Simpsons , it's one of the best known animated shows of all time , we all know the name Fred Flinstone . It's such a great series , I grew up watching it , I still will catch an episode or two on the Cartoon Network and I'm sure it's something that my children will watch too one day . So in 1994 , we had the live action version of The Flinstones come into theaters , my family took me to see it , I was 9 years old , it was either this or Pulp Fiction , I'm sure my parents didn't struggle much with that decision . But still as a kid I absolutely loved this movie , I think I wore out the VHS quite a bit . So I grew up and of course caught the movie on HBO , I figured that I would just give the movie another shot to see if it was still as fun as I remembered and actually I still love it . Cliff Vandercave , the Executive Vice President of Industrial Procurement at Slate & Co . , plans to appoint a Vice President of his division to frame for a crime . To find one , he makes an exam to give to the quarry operators , among whom are Barney Rubble and Fred Flintstone . Fred loans Barney money so he and his wife , Betty can adopt a child . They adopt a caveboy named Bamm-Bamm . Barney appreciates what Fred did for him and is determined to pay him back . While taking the exams , Fred fails it , and is disappointed since he will not be able to give his wife , Wilma the wealthy life she used to have . Barney takes Fred's exam up for him and notices how poorly he did . To pay him back for giving him the money to adopt Bamm-Bamm , he swaps his exam with Fred's and Fred is promoted to Vice President . Cliff orders Fred to fire Barney because of his exam score , and he fires Barney at the Rubbles ' surprise party , but does his best to help Barney afterwards with financial problems . But Cliff still has big plans to set Fred up for a big fall and the Rubbles are starting to get sick of the Flinstone's over the top extravagances . Honestly , I really did enjoy The Flinstones as much as I did when I was a kid , I know the main reason a lot of people complain about this movie is because of the casting , but even with Rosie O'Donnell in it I thought she was adorable , we had a great cast , everyone has their own ideas , but just deal with it and understand who this movie was made for . Granted as an adult I'm not going to go out of my way to watch this movie by myself , but I still wouldn't mind at all showing this to my younger cousins and watching it with them . It has cute jokes , a fun cast , and a good story with tons of fun sets and props . I would recommend this movie to watch with your family if you get the chance , it's a rockin ' good time .
You know what ? This would have been a cool TV series !	I over all enjoyed the Witches of Eastwick , it was an original plot with some terrific actors . Although from the title , I guess I was expecting something different . Still , for some odd reason , this movie more or less struck me as more of a TV series . Maybe because the plot is so Charmed meets Desperate Housewives , but it also worked as a movie . We have Jack Nicholson who plays the new man in the town of Eastwick , he's rich and mysterious , he also sleeps with three women who are best friends as well . He grants all their desires and wishes , not to mention makes them feel more alive then they ever have before . There of course is always a catch , Jack is a warlock , a very powerful one at that , not to mention an evil one . But after he is rejected by the girls , he decides to get back at them , not in the most pleasant way . The girls decide to trick him and use his own magics against him . Sometimes a comedy , sometimes horror , but over all I'd say that this movie is worth a watch . I mean , the stars alone are worth it , we have Oscar winners and nominee's . The story is original and entertaining , but like I said , you'll see what I mean , if this would've made a more entertaining TV series .
Ahh ! You mean there can actually be a good Chucky movie ?	Again , I'm not sure why , but I wanted to complete the Child's Play series . I was kind of looking forward to Bride of Chucky because it has a better rating that the last two Chucky movies . The thing I loved about this movie is finally that it doesn't take itself so seriously any more . Because Chucky , you have to admit , is a very lame villain . He's only 2 feet tall and not that intimidating . Jennifer Tily brought so much to the series , her and chucky were just so adorable and like a comedic Bonnie and Clyde . I mean , besides the killings , they were so much like a real couple that could break your heart and make you want to kiss your crush . LOL ! Bride of Chucky is very entertaining and is an actual good horror movie .
Offensive and rude , but I still had a great time laughing !	I hate rude humor , I find it absolutely unnecessary , disgusting , and overdone . So , I had no interest what-so-ever in seeing Borat : Cultural Learnings of America Make Benefit Glorious Nation of Kazakhstan , whoo , that was a mouth full ! But after seeing the positive reviews on IMDb and another friend telling me how hilarious it was , my best friend and I just saw it in the theater tonight . Borat is a news reporter in his country of Kazakhstan and is about to go to the United States of America to see what information could be taught to his people . He goes to America with his friend and agent learning that things are not so similar with his country , like kissing other males as a greeting , using the facilities properly , learning that Jews are accepted in the U . S . , women are supposed to be treated equally , and he has fallen in love with Pamela Anderson and will go on a journey across the states to find her . Along the stops , he learns the ways of America , the worst and the best , and brings back great surprises to his country . Despite all the offensive humor , I have to admit that I just about died laughing at the scene where Borat and his friend get into a fight while they're butt naked , it's so crude , but I couldn't catch my breath , it was so funny ! While I'm still not sure if this is the best films of 2006 , I will admit that this had some great laughs and it was fun to watch .
Maxed out on action !	I recently bought the DVD that had the back to back sequels of Mad Max 2 and Mad Max 3 , so I rented the first Mad Max and was pleasantly surprised on how it was pretty entertaining . So I just finished Mad Max 2 and it was definitely a lot of fun . But I have to tell you watching this film and with the current popularity of fuel in the US and gas prices , this film scared me on how it just might come true in the future , lol . But back onto the film , Mad Max 2 has just as many thrills and exciting stunts as the first Mad Max and has the perfect amount of action that any movie buff could enjoy . This film put Mel Gibson on the map and made his place permanent on the Hollywood scene , he's handsome , talented , and charismatic as the road warrior . Max is living in the apocalyptic era where he has lost his wife , child , and partner to the evil motorcycle gangs that have taken over his land . He's ready for revenge and to bring some sort of peace to the world . He meets a community of survivors and becomes their leader , together they take on the motorcycle gang once and for all to see who rules the land while trying to get their society back together . But that's going to be hard with the leader of the motorcycle gang who just won't quit and will make sure that Max is dead before he can do anything . Max Max 2 : The Road Warrior is packed with action , awesome stunts , and terrific actors . The look , the costumes , the sets , the over all feel of the film just makes it a great classic . Mel Gibson was really amazing and such a cool good guy , especially with the little kid who is almost like his side kick . I loved Virginia Hey , she was an awesome Road Warrior Woman , she was beautiful and kicked butt . I highly recommend Mad Max 2 , it's a cool action movie that truly delivers and will leave you satisfied .
The film filmed backwards	8 . 6 ? Wow . Memento is without a doubt one of the most unique movies I have ever seen , and the acting along with the screen play is great . Guy Pierce is a terrific actor and this is the first film I have seen him in . I've heard a lot about Memento and one of my girlfriends told me to rent this movie without even thinking about it . This truly was a good film . I will never doubt it of that . It keeps you thinking and on your toes of who's good and who is bad . Because Guy's character , Leonard , has short term memory , he is constantly writing down notes about who to trust and not trust . He is on a mission to find the man who raped and murdered his wife and kill him . All over his body he had tattoo's that would remind him of what to do next . He has Polaroids of people to remind them of who they are , he explains his " condition " several times . Causing people either to be kind or take advantage of that . It's the film that keeps you guessing and is a great new type of film noir . Despite I could think of a few more movies better than this one , I can still see why people love this film so much . It does deserve to be on the top 250 , just not so sure yet if the top 30 . But maybe I need to watch it again , still I will never doubt that this was a great movie .
Creepy	I know this sounds weird , but this movie creeped me out . I have a friend who's parent was very much like Kirstie Allen's character . So , it was just disturbing to see a parent act like that again . The movie is very funny , and has a cute story line . Kirsten Dunst and Denise Richards make the perfect cat fight duo . I'm guessing some guys must have gotten something out of this movie . : D Kirstie Allen is a great actress and really brought a lot to the movie . She shows how much parents can get obsessed with their children trying to make them into someone . I would recommend the film to anyone . But it is a little disturbing on the parent part .
Funny some moments , and somewhere they loose it	Don't get me wrong , I did enjoy the movie . But there was just something wrong . I'm not sure what . I always get a great laugh from Jim Carry . And this had more of a cute and sweet side . " Liar Liar " was a great comedy that I nearly died laughing at . It was more physical humor than in " Me , Myself , & Irene " . Maybe that was the problem . I don't know . But it's watchable .
A modest classic the never fails to deliver excellent action and a killer car chase sequence !	I saw the remake of The Italian Job a couple of years ago and I was blown away by it , the remake was so excellent and a lot of fun to watch . So I figured that I would give this Italian Job a look , even though I wasn't as blown away as I was with the remake , I sill had fun watching this classic . It had incredible car chase scenes and that was what really won me over , they were just so well choreographed and kept you on the edge of your seat the whole time . Charlie has just been released from prison and one of his friends has just died trying to complete a job , to get 4 million dollars that is being transfered to China . Charlie decides to take the job with some help of his friends and also with the help of the mini coopers that will come to good use when they cause the biggest traffic jam in Italian history and wither they make it or not in succeeding in this job , well , you're just going to have to watch the movie . While again , I wasn't too thrilled with the ending , it was good , but it just ended weirdly , this was still a fun movie that I think honestly anyone could enjoy . I would highly recommend it , but I think I will choose the remake if I was going to watch The Italian Job . But go ahead and give this movie a shot , because you'll never know when you'll find your own little treasure .
Obviously you can't take the movie seriously	I think that's why it got such low stars on IMDb . Why is everyone so harsh on the film ? I actually laughed at most of the movie . Yes , some of it is a little over the top silly . Sometimes you need that though . I don't know . Maybe I was in one of those good moods . And I could've just liked any movie . But I did think that this was very funny . There are some typical moments in a man dressed as a woman comedy . Shawn and Marlyn do make some ugly women . But that is what made this movie so funny . I would recommend it for a silly laugh . Remember , just don't take it seriously . Come on IMDb users , HAVE A LITTLE FUN ! That's what makes movies fun and enjoyable .
A new introduction of a terrific story	The first time I saw this preview , the first thought that came into my head was " Oh , my God , how could they rip off Rear Window ? " , Rear Window is one of my all time favorite movies . But my boyfriend and I had nothing better to do last week and decided to see it , I have to say that actually , it wasn't as bad as I expected , I have to admit that it was a pretty good re-introduction to one of the greatest thrillers of all time . It had a new and fresh feeling with teens and it worked , despite how it seemed a bit more predictable than Rear Window , it still was pretty clever . Kale has had a rough year , while driving his father back from their father / son fishing trip , they get into a horrible fatal car accident , the Father dies , but Kale is alive trying to deal with the guilt of what happened . But a teacher pushes him too far in his high school Spanish class and he hits the teacher , putting him on house arrest , he cannot leave outside his property . But he's in luck when a hot young girl moves next door , they quickly develop a peeping tom type of relationship , they spy on the neighbors , but when they see the neighbor across the street on a date , but the date " never leaves the house " and they want to prove him as a cold hearted murderer , but is he ? You'll have to see this movie to find out . So Distubia was a pretty good movie , I would recommend it , although before you see it , I would highly recommend seeing Rear Window , but this was a good updated version that I'm sure you'll enjoy . It keeps you on the edge of your seat and will make you ask questions over and over again , those are always the thrillers that are worth seeing .
Good , but just a tad bit over rated	Over all , this is one of the best mofia movies I have seen . Well , I don't know if you could call it a mofia movie , it's kind of based on the mob . Only more of catching them . I enjoy history , especially the 1930's and 40's . I remember in history class when we had learned about Al Capone and his mob . He was actually a fascinating character . And in this movie I felt like it was " good guys / bad guys " . I didn't feel much of a story here . Over all , it was historically accurate and enjoyable to watch . I would recommend it for a watch , because it's a good movie . But I'm sorry , it wasn't that great .
Very sweet	I'm sure everyone can remember the first time they saw Bambi , I'm also sure that most of you have cried while watching Bambi , it's one of Disney's most touching films . So I got to see Bambi 2 , while normally we have a million Disney sequels that are major disappointments , but Bambi 2 surprised me , it was very well done and was nicely put together . I really enjoyed the animation , the voices , the story , they were really lovely . The one flaw that comes into sequels is how different the voices are from the previous film , despite that you can still notice a difference , Bambi 2 fits the voices very well for the characters . I also enjoyed this new chapter into Bambi's life as he is learning how to become a prince , but still holding onto his childhood and his favorite friends . Bambi is having a hard time , his father has to take care of him but his father also has no respect for him since Bambi isn't as brave as he is . Bambi will do anything to just get his father's respect , with the help of some old friends like Thumper and Flower , he'll try his best to over come his fear and be a brave prince . But he's got a new enemy , a mean fawn , Ronno , who constantly teases him about his flaws . Bambi is also having to learn how to grieve the death of his mother and make sure that he doesn't meet the same fate as she did . Bambi 2 is a definite recommendation , it's a different Disney sequel than I've ever seen because it seems like this one could have been in the theaters . It's very well done and just a total pleasure to watch , wither it's by yourself or with the family . I loved the return of Thumper , it's always a pleasure to see him on screen , I loved when he was trying to show Bambi's father that Bambi could be brave , but Bambi needed more time , so Thumper does his best to distract Bambi's dad , it was so cute and funny . This was a good movie to watch , I'm sure you'll enjoy it .
Good , but I'm disappointed	After all the hype we've been getting for Bee Movie , I was so looking forward to seeing this film . It looked like it was a guaranteed hit ; I decided to check this movie out this afternoon and even though I still liked Bee Movie . It seemed just like this was more meant for the adults than the kids , some of the references I'm certain children wouldn't get or even shouldn't get . I'm glad that they are making these movies for also the adults to enjoy , but I think these film makers are forgetting the audience this movie is supposed to be aimed at . Like I did laugh at the Ray Liotta and Sting references , but what kids would get that ? The story was good despite some minor flaws , which I'll explain later , but it was clever . Barry is a bee who is living in the typical bee world where you live , you work , and you die . He's getting sick of it too , he wants something different , so he goes out into the human world . He meets a nice lady named Venessa and decides to break the Bee law and talk to her , they develop a friendship . He discovers in the human world that they sell honey and he's working his butt off for it , so he decides to go ahead and sue the human race for all the honey they sell . But he realizes soon that bee's mean more than just making honey . Bee Movie is cute and has a few good laughs I will always admit , but I'm just disappointed with the humor as well as the script , it seemed just too bland at moments and very predictable . But I had a problem with how the humans handled finding out that bee's can talk , they just accepted it very easily . Like I said I think the humor also was just too aimed at adults than the kids , so I'm not sure if this could qualify for family film of the year . Bee Movie is definitely worth a watch , but don't expect too much .
Some flaws here and there , but still has a very decent story	Edward Norton and Colin Ferrell , the automatic great duo , they make a perfect team for a movie like this . They're both great actors and will make any movie worth the watch . So my friends and I watched Pride and Glory a little over a week ago , I was hearing mixed reviews on it , but still , when you love these actors as much as I do , you have to see it . So based on my honest opinion , this is a very good story , but the film just needed better editing , it was a little longer than it should have been . Also I didn't really like the ending , although I know they did it more for the cinematic reasons as people wanna see the bad guys pay for their crimes . But Ed , Colin , and even John Voight make this film very watchable and click right on screen . We've seen a million crooked cop movies , I think we're still looking for one that really stands out , but Pride and Glory holds itself well and is watchable . Jimmy is a narc who does pretty much all the dirty work when it comes to busting in on drug dealers , hookers , murderers , rapists , etc . One night though he among other cops receive a call that 4 policemen have been killed in a building with drug dealers . Jimmy is trying to figure out what went wrong only to find out that one of the drug dealers had an inside man who called in advance to warn them that the cops were coming . But one of the policemen that he suspects is his brother in-law who does the best he can to justify all that he is doing . Pride and Glory is a very good story , I'd say though to wait for the rental , but I'm warning you there are some really intense scenes , Colin goes really far in one scene with a baby , I'm a person who has seen every disturbing film known to man , and this scene had my hands over my eyes . If you wanna see this film , you'll see what I'm talking about . There are some shocking lines as well and hurtful , this was just an intense movie and is not for the weak hearted . It's like the more disturbing episode of The Shield in some ways . Ed and Colin work well together and are a great duo , Pride and Glory is a good movie , just needs a little more editing .
If you loved " Basic Instinct " and " Showgirls " , you should watch " Wild Things "	I wasn't too into " Showgirls " and not a big fan of " Basic Instinct " , but some how this movie did fit into a fine story . This movie is risque . But that's what attracted me to it . Like I said , if you did like " Showgirls " and " Basic Instinct " , you will most likely enjoy " Wild Things " .
Porno's were not meant for a story . . . or are they ?	Zack and Miri Make a Porno , Kevin Smith who wrote and directed this , he's made some hit and miss comedies over the years , he's a great writer , he's made some extremely memorable films and characters . Zack and Miri Make a Porno is one of his good , but forgettable films though . Don't get me wrong , this is a very funny movie , it has some great moments , mostly at the beginning though , where as Justin Long just steals the show and you definitely want more of his character in the story . But there are some jokes that just completely gross me out , now I love Kevin Smith , but it seems as if he is now trying to compete with the Apatow clan , because it had that feel to it , only with more gross jokes . I'm sorry , but someone getting feces on them . . . it's just disgusting and really threw me off for the rest of the film . But Kevin still wrote a decent script that is good for a few laughs . Zack and Miri have been best friends since grade school , they're roommates now and are struggling like crazy to pay their bills . After attending their high school reunion , they meet the former quarterback stud and his boyfriend to find out they make and distribute their own porno's and make very good money at it . So Zack and Miri come on board as well , they're going to make a cheap porno with a group of friends and amateur porn stars . After constant games of who has feelings for who , Zack and Miri realize there might be more there than just a friendship as well . Zack and Miri Make a Porno is a good comedy , I loved the scene where they are shooting their first take , right in the middle of the sex that is taking place in a coffee shop , a drunk as heck customer walks in and just makes it more awkward than it already is . There are some other great scenes in here , while the film has it's really gross jokes and the story is nothing original when it comes to the friends becoming lovers , it was still a fun movie to watch . I just feel like this isn's Kevin Smith's strongest film , but it's worth the ticket price if you're looking for a few laughs , just take the title into consideration if you're thinking about seeing this .
A nice and honest movie about friendships , family , and true love	I am a huge fan of Sean Patrick Flanery , I am not kidding . His work and not to mention his beautiful looks always get me , and when I noticed at Hollywood Video they had Kiss the Bride , I didn't hesitate to pick it up and watch it at home . Yes , I was a bit shallow , I kinda watched it just to see Sean , because I love him so . But I got more than that , I got an nice and honest movie about sisterhood and how differences can tear and pull back together a family . The acting and movie in general is a good one with some water wrenching moments . Although there were a few things they could have patched up , like some of the plots were not ending well or the characters could have been more developed , over all this is a movie I would recommend for a watch .
Daddy's Little Girl	I remember a few years ago seeing Father of the Bride on TV , but of course it's edited and I never finished it , it's sad , I call myself a Steve Martin fan and never finished this movie . It's such a classic in itself and is just a nice family film that's a good watch . So I decided to rent Father of the Bride the other day , I just love this movie . It's one of the rare films that is genuinely good and just means to entertain you , your family and friends as well . Steve Martin makes such a great over protective dad , as much as he drives his daughter crazy in the film , you still gotta love him that he's so protective over his baby girl . Father of the Bride is a great comedy and is a good watch with it's sweet story and lovable characters . Before Meet the Parents , there was Father of the Bride . George has an excellent life : good job , nice home , beautiful wife , and two loving kids , one of which is his daughter who has just come home from Rome getting her masters in architecture and announces she's getting married to a man she met there , Bryan . George is going crazy , loosing his baby girl so fast and now having to deal with not being the main guy in her life that she will go too for help . George has to also deal with the crazy wedding planner , Franck Eggelhoffer , trying to break up his daughter and her fiancée , and Bryan's rich parents . Father of the Bride is a good film and I really recommend it , it's one of those films that you get a few good laughs for and just feel good afterwards . Steve Martin made George such a lovable character , even though he's trying to break up his daughter and her fiancée , you could understand why through his narration and the way he talks , every dad could relate too . Martin Short as Franck Eggelhoffer is a little over done , but still delivers good laughs . Father of the Bride is a just a fun movie that anyone could enjoy , it gives good laughs and might even make you shed a tear .
It was good , but it's lacking something	I couldn't wait to see Shrek the Third , especially since I have such a great love for the second Shrek , I'm just in love with Puss in Boots . But , the trailer looked great and the stories have worked so far , my mom and I saw the premier show today and while the movie has great laughs , there seemed to be something lacking in the Shrek world . I think the characters didn't seem to click as well as they did in the first two . Shrek the Third has the return of the whole cast , including the new heir to the thrown , Arthur . Shrek and Fiona have a problem , Fiona's father , the frog King of Far Far Away , has passed away and now it's up to Shrek to take the crown . But Shrek is too scared to step up and looks to the next man in line , well , actually a teenage , Arthur . Shrek , Puss , and Donkey go to find Artie , but there is one more problem going on , Prince Charming wants his kingdom of Far Far Away back like it was promised to him and he will go through anything to get it back . Fionna and the other princesses are kidnapped while Shrek's life is in danger and they must all pull together to save him in time for Arthur to take over the kingdom . Shrek the Third has great jokes , terrific animation , and lovable characters , especially the character , Merlin , he was just a terrific spoof . But the characters seemed to be lacking the same chemistry as they did in the first two films . I would recommend Shrek the Third , it's a good movie for the family and for a summer movie , because I do guarantee a fun time . I don't know if everyone will agree , but so far I know a few people know that there is something lacking from the world of Shrek .
It really caught up and I enjoyed it	I have to admit that I had a lot of fun watching Knots . Despite it being a little predictable , it was a funny and enjoyable movie . The plot was pretty original and I just loved how the character , Dave , was just in so much denial throughout the movie . He , along with all the other characters , brought so much to what could've been a pretty bad movie . Dave and his wife are having a few " marital " problems in the bedroom . When they go on a double date with Dave's best friend and his new lovely date , Lily , things take a different turn when Dave finds Lily in bed with his wife , Greta ! Greta is now convinced she is a lesbian and divorces Dave . His friends Cal and Jake help him move on , but Dave makes his own plunge by sleeping with Greta's lovely girlfriend , Lily . Cal is also cheating on his fiancée , Emily , she finds out finally when Jake accidentally tells her . Jake is also falling for Emily as well . Could this knotted web be finally untangled ? You'll have to find out . It's a fun film that you get a few laughs out of .
Under rated	Over all , I thought that " Moll Flanders " was a good movie . It is a little slow moving . That's the only complaint though . The story revolves around Moll Flanders . She's a slave whom goes into prostitution . And one of her customers happens to fall in love with her . They also have a child together . The movie is just about her life . But it's very heart warming , and I think any woman would enjoy it . If you enjoy Morgan Freeman or Robin Write , this is one of their best performances . I'm a little surprised with the rating . But , I guess you can't win them all . I would recommend " Moll Flanders " .
Big and grand , but not the hit they were aiming for	OK , I saw Australia back in December , so I'm a little rusty , forgive the late review . But looking back on this movie and just thinking about it really did help me in looking at the film and it's story . Australia was a movie that really tried to be the next Gone With The Wind for the millennium's audience . While it's a good movie , it definitely wasn't great and went way over the top . It's a little lengthy in the time and the writing was a little over done , BUT nevertheless it was still a good movie . It had terrific sets and was a beautiful setting , it felt like watching one of the old classic movies that made you feel good . Well , it was kinda like Titanic with the emotions , you were up , you were down , you were laughing , you were crying , well you get the idea . The story is a bit much , so I'm going to do the best I can to give you a decent summary . In 1939 , Lady Sarah Ashley travels from England to northern Australia to force her philandering husband to sell his faltering Australian cattle station , Faraway Downs . Her husband sends an independent cattle drover , called simply " Drover " , to Darwin to transport her to Faraway Downs . Lady Sarah's husband , who has been working hard to sell 1500 head of cattle to the military , is murdered shortly before she arrives . Meanwhile , treacherous FD cattle station manager Neil Fletcher is trying to gain control of Faraway Downs , so that neighboring Lesley ' King ' Carney can have a cattle monopoly in the Northern Territory , which will give him negotiating leverage with the Australian army . The childless Lady Sarah is captivated by the young boy Nullah , who was born to an Aboriginal mother and an unknown white father . When Nullah and his mother hide from the white authorities by entering a water tower , his mother drowns . Drover is friendly with the Aborigines , and therefore shunned by many of the other whites in the territory . Lady Sarah and Drover develop a romance , and she gains a new appreciation for the Australian territory . But Carney's men poison all the water sources along the cattle-drive route , so the group risks driving the cattle through the dangerous Never Never desert , which they accomplish with the help of " King George " . Two years later , Drover and Lady Sarah have lived together with Nulla . But Drover , who has been quarreling with Lady Sarah and has gone droving apparently never to return , hears that she has been killed in the bombing of Darwin . Drover finds out about Nullah's abduction to Mission Island , and sets out with Magarri and Ivan to rescue Nullah and the other children from the island using a sailboat . Whew , OK , I hope that summary is a good description of the movie since I haven't watched in a while , but I did the best I could . So in a quick sum up , the movie is worth the watch , for the background , it was worth watching in the theater . But you get the same effect if you watched it at home if you have a big screen TV and surround sound . Nicole and Hugh were a beautiful couple together , they did the best they could for such a lengthy story . But the chemistry was on and the movie did work , I think they just went a little too over the top on trying to make this movie into a classic or some kind of love fest for the Oscars . It's worth the watch , but I'd recommend just watching it at home , I don't think I can sit through a 3 hour movie again in the theaters , I'm really loosing my touch .
Spider Man's back and he's gonna be trouble	My friends and I just saw the premiere of Spider-Man 3 and we had a great time watching it ! The theater was packed and everyone was so hyped to see it , I mean , could you ask for a better movie experience ? Spider-Man 3 has massive special effects that I have to admit were very impressive , the actors were fun , and the story was pretty good , but I have to honestly say that after all that hype , I wasn't incredibly impressed . Unfortunately , Spider-Man 3 left me and my friends with no closure to what could have been an excellent trilogy . But still this was indeed an exciting summer blockbuster that I'm sure you won't wanna miss . Spider Man has been given a day in dedication from New York , he is admired and loved by all , and quite frankly , it's getting to his head . Peter however is still the geek in real life , not too respected by anyone , but he still has Mary Jane who he wants to ask to marry him . Mary Jane is struggling in her career and is questioning her relationship with Peter and Spider Man . Harry is also back and during a huge fight between him and Spider Man he is knocked unconscious and has short term memory , but slowly realizes that he is still thirsty for revenge on his father's death . But that's the little of Peter's problem when a black goo turns him into an evil alternate of Spider Man and when Peter finds out that the man who actually killed his uncle is at large , he lets the evil out and is only out for cold revenge . Spider Man 3 is a great blockbuster that is the big start to our summer of trilogies , I would highly recommend this movie for anyone , it was a lot of fun to watch . But I wouldn't expect the greatest movie , I still love the first one the best , but I'm sure you will get 2 hours of pure entertainment , the special effects were awesome and I hope there is eventually another Spider Man in the near future . Great jokes , corny lines , fantastic fights , and exciting plots , super hero movies , aren't they great ?
Fans will enjoy it for sure , others not so sure	If you remember a little decade called " The ' 90's " , you'll definitely remember that The X-Files was one of the biggest shows of that decade . The X-Files had so many different fans , I have to admit that I was a fan , not so much to the extent as many others were , but I enjoyed the show . However , I think because my friend rubbed it in my face so much of how much this show was the best television show to ever hit the air waves , I steered clear of the movie . But I was renting movies the other day and came across The X-Files , and figured to just give the movie a shot , it's been how many years since the show ended ? But I watched it last night and I liked the movie . I think the only thing is , is this was a movie that was definitely made for the fans and no one else , because if you didn't watch the show , you won't get into the movie . Mulder and Scully are on the case again after they learn of a deadly " virus " that is killing off the planet . Of course the government is covering it up , making it seem like it's more of a terrorist or a horrible flu . Mulder wants to make the truth known , but Scully has just given up , that is until she is attacked by a bug carrying the virus and Mulder will not give up on her . He saves her , but she needs more strength if they are to make it out of this situation alive . The X-Files the movie is a cool sci fi film , if you are not a fan or didn't watch the series , there is a small chance you'll get into the film . But this was a definite treat for the fans , this is the film they wanted and as much as I hate this saying , The X-Files is just an extended episode with a bigger budget , but it's still a cool film . I liked it , Mulder and Scully always provide perfect entertainment and I just love Mulder going into his infamous speeches of " the truth is out there " , so over dramatic , but you gotta love his passion in it . The X-Files is worth the look , it's a fun film and is cool sci-fi .
It was good , but they shouldn't have done it	Now , there are thousands of murders a year . And very violent ones . And this was a brutal murder , but my question is . Why would the mother of Laurie Show let them do a movie about her daughter's death ? And of course I'm sure that they embellished a bit with the story . But it seemed pointless to me . The movie is good . The actors did a good job . It's just the concept of the story that bugs me .
" Sir , please dismount the banister "	A couple years ago I saw that little movie we called National Treasure , sorta like the new Indiana Jones wanna-be , I didn't get into the film . But the sequel National Treasure : Book of Secrets came last year and I had again no interest in seeing the movie , but my mom bought the film and wanted to watch it together , so I figured to just sit through it , it actually wasn't as bad as I was expecting . But I actually not only thought it wasn't bad , it was actually a really good movie , I was impressed . I think the reason why I disliked the first National Treasure was due to the fact that it was too deep with history in order for it to be a family film and could be confusing at times . But National Treasure : Book of Secrets explains itself well and has more exciting action sequences and just a great story . Ben Gates is back , this time his life isn't looking so good , his girlfriend , Abigal , threw him out , his friend , Riley isn't the best seller on his new book , then his great great grandfather is accused of helping John Wilkes Booth kill President Lincoln . But Ben is determined to clear the family name , but Mitch Wilkinson wants his family name to remain sacred and plans to drag Ben's family down and claim all the fortune for himself . National Treasure : Book of Secrets is an exciting adventure film , one of the better I've seen in a while . Nicolas Cage is my only little complaint , now I love this actor , he was great throughout the film , but when he had his little " joke " putting his arm into the rock where everyone thinks it's a trap and he kids them with it , for some reason this guy cannot do comedy . I know that's a silly complaint , but sometimes he just seems so out of place in a film , especially with his recent movies . But National Treasure : Book of Secrets otherwise is a decent family film that is enjoyable and exciting , I'd recommend it if you're looking for a fun film .
Seriously funny !	I hate a lot of romantic comedies , I just want to say that right now , the movies like 27 Dresses and Fool's Gold where it's just the same predictable plot each time with different characters . When I first saw the teaser trailer for Run Fatboy Run , I couldn't stop laughing . Simon Pegg is seriously one of today's funniest actors and his comedies are always a blast to watch . So I got to see Run Fatboy Run this weekend and I was a little disappointed , while I was dying of laughter , the plot was a little weak . Now the jokes and script are very clever and the story is very heart warming , while it's predictable and sloppy in some area's . Like Hank Azaria's character , Whit , how he was this perfect boyfriend in the beginning , and then he just turns into a total jerk out of no where in the end , it just felt rushed and that the writers could've left him as a good guy , but instead turned into into a typical plot . But I have to say that I was impressed with Simon Pegg who made a despicable character very likable and held the story well . Dennis is a man who has never finished anything in life , he's unfit , has a lousy job , smokes , drinks , and also left his pregnant fiancée at the alter . When he realizes what he's lost , he wants his son and ex fiancée , Libby , back , but she's already got a boyfriend , Whit . Whit runs marathon's for charities , so when Dennis finds this out , he wants to impress Libby , so he decides to run the marathon too . But it's going to take a lot of Rocky like working out in order to run this 26 mile ordeal . Now I loved Run Fatboy Run , it has some incredibly funny scenes like Dennis's first running scene with those little blue speedo shorts , and him getting the rash from it and the way he handles it . Run Fatboy Run is a feel good movie that I'm sure will make you laugh and just have a good time as well . There are some minor flaws here and there though , like I said , it gets predictable and the characters are just let go and the ending is sped through a little bit . But I do recommend this movie if you get a chance , I think Simon Pegg and Dylan Moran were absolutely fun together in this movie and make it very enjoyable .
Just think " The Crow " , but the dude's alive	I don't read comic books . I never have and I never will . But I will always watch movies . I have watched " Batman " , " Spider-man " , " The Crow " , etc . And I enjoyed those movies . But " The Punisher " just seemed like a rip off to " The Crow " . BUT ! ! ! I have to say , it was still enjoyable . Frank Castle though , to me , isn't a memorable hero . It seems like once he destroys the men who killed his family , what would happen next ? That's what I kept asking . So , if they were to create a sequel , I just want to know what would happen ? Over all , it's not bad . I would recommend for action lovers . But personally , I would stick to " The Crow " . That is the ultimate Comic Book movie .
Oh , man , do I miss Rodney !	I was watching on VH1 I love the 80's and Back to School got a mention , I remember seeing it in my mother's VHS collection and I recently saw Easy Money , it was my first Rodney Dangerfield movie and I absolutely loved it . So I decided to go ahead and give Back to School a chance . I really had a good time watching it , I just miss comedies like this where it was dirty or over the top , it was just plain fun to watch and you have a good time viewing the film . Rodney is such a lovable goof and he always makes it look like he and the cast enjoy making these comedies . The story is so crazy , but so hilarious that it makes you wanna go back to school with Rodney and just have a good time with him and his son . Thornton Melon's father made one thing clear to him at a young age , no matter how old , young , poor , rich you are , education is one of the most important things in life . Well , Thornton has grown into a successful clothes store owner and is very rich and powerful . But when his son , Jason , is discouraged with college , Thornton goes back to school to help encourage his son to get through it . While for Jason it's all studies and trying to fit in , it's all fun and games for Thornton and he's having the time of his life while being the big man on campus . Back To School is a great comedy that I highly recommend , it's all in good fun and Rodney is just such a great comedian . I just loved it when he was going to the college to visit his son and he accidentally enters the sorority house and walks in on a girl showering and says " Oh , don't worry , you're perfect " , lol , I just couldn't stop laughing . Also I loved Keith Gordon in the film , I can't believe this guy didn't make it big in acting , but he just does such a terrific job keeping up with Rodney . Back to School is a fun film and I'm sure you'll have a good time watching it .
A depressing character piece , one of Anne Hathaway's finest performances	My theater that I work at is weird , we always get an independent film way after it's actual release date , but we got Rachel Getting Married , I had absolutely no idea what this was about , but after work I had a little time , so I decided to go ahead and check it out . I thought it was going to be a story about Anne Hathaway getting married and probably about her wacky family that drives her insane , but it's actually complete opposite . This is one of the most depressing movies I have seen this year , but I think the reason why it got to me is because I have a family member who is exactly like Kym , had a strong drug addiction , made a heavy mistake causing our family a lot of grief , and then they got clean and expected everything to go back to normal , so this movie just got to me and went underneath my skin . Kym is a recovering drug addict who has just come out of rehab to go home with her dad , her sister , Rachel , is getting married , so this should be a happy time . Only Kym doesn't realize after all the pain she's caused , some of the family is still shook up . While Kym was high , her parents put her in charge of her baby brother and while she was driving with him , they crashed and he was killed , so now she must deal with the pain of being responsible for that , but a family who is having a hard time taking her back in . She's doing as best as she can with her sister who is trying to forgive her , but doesn't realize what kind of a disease Kym had to deal with in addiction . Rachel Getting Married is more of a character piece for sure , it's a study of a recovering addict and the pains and regrets they must have . Anne Hathaway pulls in a killer performance that I wouldn't be surprised if she got nominated for best actress , she has come such a long way from The Princess Diaries and has proved herself to be more than a pretty face , she had such dedication to this role and makes it shine on screen . All the actors were great because from an outside viewer , you might feel forced to take sides , but you realize in this horrific situation , it's a gray area . Rachel Getting Married isn't for everyone , but for me , it hit home and was a very powerful film and held itself very well .
A decent animation flick	I have to admit that I had high expectations for Monster House , after all , I am a big fan of Steven Spielberg . He's great with a typical drama involving non-animation , so I was curious how he would do with an animation film . But honestly , I think I was a little disappointed , I was expecting more humor than spooks . I understand that this is a kid's horror movie , but still , it needed more relief for the audience . But Monster House is about three kids : DJ , Chowder , and Jenny , they are investigating a spooky house of the neighborhood , they've just witnessed it eating people ! Since the creepy old owner is in the hospital , they take a tour inside the house finding out what makes it work and how they can destroy it , before it eats the whole neighborhood ! Monster House had great animation , it is truly amazing how real those kids looked , it almost proved how we may no longer need actors in Hollywood in the near future . But like I said , there wasn't enough humor to really grab me , not to mention , some of the content , I guess depending on the age of the audience , just seemed a little too teenager or adult . Still , I wouldn't deny this was a good film , just wished that it met my expectations or at least a little higher .
I knew that " The Girl Next Door " wasn't that original	Ah , the famous sex teen comedy " Risky Business " . Tom Cruise in his tighty whities ! Dancing to " Rock-N-Roll " , ah , so cute , so cute . Who would've know that he would become so big after that ? I don't know if anybody else would've believed it either at the time . Funny how things work out . So onto the movie , " Risky Business " is just another sex teen comedy , true . But in some ways it worked . I wasn't that wild about " The Girl Next Door " , but for some reason I kinda liked this movie . It is practically the same plot , which is strange . Maybe I was just in one of those moods to give anything a chance , I don't know . But I seriously would recommend this film to lovers of " The Girl Next Door " , or just movie buff's in general .
Very hokey and it's lost it's edge somewhat , but forever will it be a great flick to watch in the dark !	I remember seeing this movie when I was a kid and how scary it was to me , especially the scene where Nora sees the old lady ghost for the first time . I haven't seen this movie since I was 6 years old and I remember watching with my mom recently the " 100 scariest movies " on BRAVO and this movie was mentioned , I figured since I had the opportunity to see it again , why not ? Like I said , it's somewhat lost it's edge , but still ' till this day , House on Haunted Hill will always remain a great movie to watch any stormy night . Five strangers have been invited to a house on Haunted Hill , they are being offered by Vincent price $10 , 000 each , the catch ? They have to spend the night at that house that has been cursed , thinking it's just a good old fashioned haunted party that Vincent's wife is throwing , they go along with it , especially since they could easily have $10 , 000 . But things start to go a little crazy when horrible things happen to the guests , including the sights of ghosts . But questions are brought up when the wife seems pretty up on loosing her millionaire husband . The story was great and the ending was one of the first great twist endings of our time . Again , I could always easily laugh at some scenes now a days , but I think it is because of the fact that I've seen so many horror movies . Because I still remember those horrible nightmares this movie gave me as a kid and that's what makes this movie special to me , it will remain as the greatest sleepover flick !
Surprsingly funny !	When I saw the theatrical trailer to Tenacious D : The Pick of Destiny , it looked like one of the most stupid movies on Earth . Especially since I was so disappointed with Nacho Libre , I was wondering if Jack Black lost his comedic edge . But my friend called me a few nights ago and told me that this movie was so hilarious and that I needed to see it , so I figured to give it a shot , so I rented it . I just watched it and I have to admit that I just had a great time watching it . I am a huge classic rock lover , so I think that's part of the reason why I loved it so much , but the guys made the movie work and had great chemistry . JB is a kid who ran away from his religious family to become a rock star , when he gets to Hollywood he finds another old balding heavy set man KG who is playing his guitar on the streets . He is extremely impressed with KG and begs him to be in a band with him . KG lies and tells him that he's a huge rock star , but when JB finds out what a fake KG is , he forgives him and they find out what makes a band great and that is " The Pick of Destiny " , so they must go to the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame to find the pick that will make them play like true guitar Gods . It has funny music , some great humor and some gross , and the story just worked for a comedy . I thought this was a great surprise , I really enjoyed Tenacious D : The Pick of Destiny , I think anyone could too . Believe me , you'll definitely enjoy the scene where KG and JB are fighting to " outrock " Satan , I have to admit that I've never seen anything like that , it was great . So , please have fun , this was a big step up from Nacho Libre for Jack Black .
Great comedy	I have heard quite a bit about Kingpin , about how funny it is and how great the actors were together , this film was on the top 100 funniest films of all time and not to mention that I heard a lot about it from my friends . I thought that it was a pretty decent comedy that I had fun with , especially the finally bowling scene with Bill Murray , he was the one who truly stole this film . But the entire cast was so great and special , I think anyone could laugh a few times from this film . Roy has been brutally disfigured in a bowling game when his partner , Ernie , leaves him to a horrible disfiguration of getting his bowling hand cut off . Years and years later , he finds Ishmael Boorg , an Amish farmer who bowls extremely well , but he doesn't want his family to know that he can bowl , but after begging and begging , Ishmael decides to be with Roy in a huge tournament for a huge cash prize . Through the trip they make , they become the most unlikely of friends picking up a hot woman , Claudia . Kingpin is one of those films you don't forget and I will guarantee the minimum of one laugh , especially when you see these grown men have comb overs and are acting like little boys in the the competition together . I would recommend it for a fun afternoon with the friends , it's good film and it looked like the cast really had a lot of fun together .
Not as funny as I was expecting , but still a fresh new comedy for the summer	Last year I saw the teaser trailer for Get Smart , Steve Carell throws a phone at the guy from Borat and it's on a wire and stops before it can hit him , I nearly died laughing and new I had to see this film . More and more trailers were released and this movie just looked more and more funny , I just couldn't wait to see it . I got to see it this week and I have to say that I was expecting this to be at least a rating . Steve Carell is such a great comedic actor and we had such a promising cast . Now I'm only 23 years old , so I haven't seen the series , but I know that it's a series that was made by Mel Brooks and was pretty popular back in the day , but I cannot judge it on what the series was . As a movie , I'd say it was good , as an all out comedy , I wasn't too thrilled . It has some really funny moments , I guess I've just seen all the screw ball comedies to the point where I am used to these stories by now . Maxwell Smart works with a secret agency , he's got the smarts , but not exactly the skill to be a secret agent . But when hot Agent 99 is on the case , Max is given a chance to work with her . They have to stop a terrorist who is threatening to blow up a building with the president . But with Max and Agent 99 on the case , Agent 99 being good at the skills , and Max at least having the brains , with the feelings they're doing their best to hide , they stick together and learn a few new tricks . Get Smart is a good movie , I would recommend it , I would more so would recommend though that you wait for the rental , the funny parts were already shown in the trailer unfortunately . The cast though was excellent and did make the movie work very well , the strange thing was is that Dwayne Johnson actually did a good job , he's proving more and more that he's a decent enough actor for the characters he's portraying . Another thing I did like is that they didn't make Max into a total idiot where he is like Steve Urkel or something . It's just too typical , Steve made Max into his own and the movie does still deliver good laughs , just I wish it could have been a little more .
Better than I thought it would be	In 1994 , my big sister had this huge thing for Brad Pitt , well , every woman did , I think it was Brad's hair , the hair every woman wanted to have , lol . But my sister's big obsession was with Interview with the Vampire and Legends of the Fall , and to me , Legends of the Fall just looked boring , and I never wanted to see it . But on New Year's day , my friend and I were flipping through the channels and came across Legends of the Fall and decided to go ahead and see what it was about . So we watched it and I have to say that actually it was a good movie . It was beautifully shot , thanks to Edward Zwick's talent as a director , and created this into a wonderful story . Also the performances were absolutely terrific , the cast really made the story a pleasure to watch . The Ludlow brothers are close and have a wonderful brotherhood , but as adults , their lives take on separate directions . Tristan and Samuel go to war and Samuel is tragically killed . Tristan comes back home to his other brother , Alfred , and his father , William , and Alfred has taken an interest into politics as well as trying to woo his crush , Susannah , but she loves Tristand and has an affair with him . But Tristan soon leaves to discover himself and when he returns , he finds out that Susannah has married Alfred . Tristan then marries a beautiful woman , Isabel , and has two beautiful children with her , but when tragedy strikes again , Tristan wants revenge and Alfred must learn the meaning of loyalty and brotherhood . Legends of the Fall is really a good movie I would say . I think besides the way it's shot , it's the performances that really make the film a good one . Because we know that this film could have been really boring , but thanks to Zwick , he made it into one of the semi-over looked films of 1994 . Aidan and Anthony pull in the great performances though , especially Aidan , he was so heart breaking , he makes you hate his character and then love him again . I would recommend Legends of the Fall , for those who appreciate film , this is a good one to watch .
It's bogus , but still entertaining	Oh , come on , learn to have a little fun . When I was a kid , oh , this movie was Oscar-worthy to me . I thought it was absolutely hysterical . One of the best movies I had seen . Now , it's a little stupid , but come on . If you enjoyed " Excellent Adventure " , you should most likely have fun with " Bogus Journey " . This was the movie before " Dude , where's my car ? " . Only this one is actually funny . Like I said , it's just a good time . It shouldn't be taken seriously and if you enjoyed the first one , you should like " Bogus Journey " . It's just a funny movie with some memorable characters . For your enjoyment only , watch it , let go , and remember that it's a silly comedy . That's all .
Basic plot , but it's so much fun to watch	I remember my parents being such fans of Mad Max when I was a kid , but the movie looked so boring in my eyes . I never really wanted to get into it , I mean , I was a kid after all . But a few years ago in my film appreciation class , we were watching clips from Mad Max 2 when studying Australian films and I was intrigued with it . I finally remembered a few weeks ago how I wanted to see the three movies , so I just watched Mad Max and I have to say that I understand it's cult following . Mad Max promises and delivers , it's a low budget action film , but has a terrific story and excellent stunts . Mel Gibson , before he was Mel Gibson in Hollywood , you could see why he made it so big , his presence on screen is truly hypnotic and he makes a great hero . This story is so scary in the fact that I don't think that we are far from this future . Max Rockatansky lives in a time where his country has been taken over by violent , vicious motorcycle gang members who just go around torturing and killing people . Max and a few friends are the last members of the " semi " police force that is trying to get things back under control and bring some peace to their town . But when the gang messes with Max's friend by nearly burning him alive , Max is ticked and goes after them . But when the gang messes with Max's wife and child and kills them , oh , they've gone too far and now it's personal . Mad Max's plot is basic and can be considered typical , but it's a fun action movie that truly delivers . The action sequences were really exciting , especially Max's revenge sequence , he was so amazing and I don't remember the last time I rooted so hard for the good guy to win . Mel Gibson was really cool and I had a good time watching Mad Max . I'm looking forward to the sequels . I would recommend this movie for a watch , it's a fun cult classic that I'm sure any action fan would enjoy .
Just a sweet and honest movie that I feel is a little under rated here on IMDb	I recently saw I . Q . and even though I'm not a romantic comedy type of gal , I think that it was just a nice and sweet movie to watch . So many movies in my opinion lack honesty . You know that feeling when you're watching a movie and you just feel robbed because it's taking something from the story and it was like the director just threw it together like it was trash ? The story between the scientists is a sweet and funny one . How they stuck together and they tried to help Tim Robbins character become smart . I liked the love story between Tim and Meg because it was simple and brought up a good point when it comes to love , " nothing is what it seems " . I would recommend this for a Sunday morning .
Excellent !	Who knew that two complete grundge nerds could be so funny ? Mike Myers and Dana Carvey were off the top crazy with this idea when they joined the cast of Saturday Night Live . Now many characters have been developed into a movie due to Saturday Night Live , and only the Blues Brothers made it into the classics category , but Wayne's World is up there with it . Not too many movies can do that . coughsuperstarcough . I couldn't stop laughing at this movie . It's sometimes stupid , but I liked it . I has fun cameos and best of all , two of the funniest comedians of the early 90's .
Disco Vampires ! Yes !	Count Yorga , Vampire , I remember seeing this movie as a kid and it scared the heck out of me . But I loved it so much , this was just such a scary film to me , well , I'd say I grew up since then , so just giving a review from a new perspective . Count Yorga is one of those films that came from the 70's , in my opinion , a very sexy vampire film , sort of soft core in some ways . It's a classic vampire feel with a typical plot and silly actors , but that is what makes a fun horror movie . In the dark , this is still a pretty intense film . I have to admit though that I have a bit of fun with it now , like the guys who are being fed to the girl vampires , you have several hot chicks who are scantly clad and want to suck the blood out of you ? Yeah , it sucks that you're dead , but still , what a way to go , right ? LOL , at least I thought it was pretty funny . A group of young adults hold a séance for Donna , a girl who has lost her mother mysteriously . Count Yorga , her mother's boyfriend , is a mysterious man who never shows up during the day time and is a bit suspicious ever since all the girls keep disappearing when he came into the group's lives . But the guys are on a journey to get their women back , but it's gonna be hard when they find out that they are dealing with vampires . Count Yorga is a fun horror flick to watch at midnight , I have to admit it still sometimes sends a little chill down my spine . The acting is cheesy and some moments are a bit much , but this is a classic and sexy vampire story that I'm sure if you love a good vamp flick , you're sure to enjoy this one . It's a classic in some ways I think and is a bit over looked for horror films , but it's all good . It has good scares and a charismatic vampire , Robert Quarry did an awesome job , he's very chilling .
It has a sleek and sexy look to it that I loved	I just saw the famous V for Vendetta , sadly I did have to wait until rental for this movie . None of my friends wanted to see it and I never had the time to see it by myself . Even though I have to admit I was scarred , because of the simple fact that this movie was made by the makers of The Matrix , I thought it was going to be once again all glam and green screen , when actually , it turned out to be a good movie . There are still a few things I'm not too sure about plot wise , I never did read the comics . But I am planning on watching this film again . I'm more for the look of the movie . Especially the domino scene , how cool was that ? Dominos have never looked so cool . V for Vendetta not only looks good , the plot was still a great one as well . I loved the chemistry between Evey and V , they worked so well together . I loved how V tested Evey on her loyalty to him . It was like the bad good scene that I wanted to cry for . It's a good movie that I would recommend for a good time . Still , once again # 148 on the top 250 , I'm not sure it's that good . But then again , I don't decide what should be on the top . Still , I want to watch this movie again , maybe I'll enjoy it better the second time around .
Paul Blart : Mall Cop meets Taxi Driver	Last week my date and I were looking for a movie to see and noticed Observe and Report , I remember just seeing one trailer for it , but still it was staring Seth Rogan , so we decided this was going to be the movie for the night . Now I did expect laughter , which believe me there is tons , but I did not expect a crazy movie like this one . Like I said , this is a mix of Taxi Driver and Paul Blart : Mall Cop , this year we got Paul Blart who is a very lovable security guard at the mall , despite how silly he was he was like the Forrest Gump of mall security . Imagine he had that evil brother that had that Travis Bickle side of him , pretty wicked . This is one of the craziest movies I have seen in a while , Seth Rogan wasn't kidding when he said that he never played a character like Ronnie Barnhardt . If you are looking for a movie like Forgetting Sarah Marshall or Knocked Up , this is definitely not for you , this is the darker side of the Apatow group . The head of mall security , Ronnie Barnhardt , makes it his mission to catch a " pervert " who is going around the mall parking lot flashing women . He is assisted by the Yuen twins , Charles and Dennis in his efforts . At home , Ronnie has a loving but dysfunctional relationship with his alcoholic mother . Ronnie's dream girl , Brandi who works a mall make-up counter , is flashed the next day , becoming distraught over the situation . Ronnie tries to comfort her until a police officer , Detective Harrison , arrives and takes over Ronnie's palliative role . Ronnie feels threatened by this and is upset that his boss allowed an outside person to infringe on his search for the offender . The criminal activity at the mall continues , as a masked person is seen robbing a shoe store , causing property damage . Detective Harrison is once again called in to investigate , in a jealous rage , Ronnie decides to take the steps necessary to become a real police officer . Ronnie obtains preliminary documents needed to become a police officer from a recruiting station , including forms for a physical and a psychological profile check . Ronnie arranges a date with Brandi , well more or less bugs the heck out of her to get a date . Date night , Brandi arrives home very late , forgetting the date , but she still goes on the date with Ronnie . She drinks a ton alcohol as well as several tablets of clonazepam which she took from Ronnie . Due to his failure of the psychological examination , because of his crazy behavior . The pills that he gave Brandi are for his bipolar disorder . You thought he was crazy before , just wait till you see what he does next . So would I recommend Observe and Report ? Yeah , it does have some big laughs , mainly from Rogan , Faris , Pena , and Ansari ( who played a salesperson and Ronnie tormented with accusations ) . We even have Ray Liotta come in as the smug detective and he was perfect as usual as the crazy villain . This is a darker comedy , it's a certain taste , I mean we have Rogan practically date rape Faris in their sex scene together , granted she's conscious when it's going on , but she's clearly drunk and passed out from the drugs she took . Rogan also has some awesome fight scenes and just kicks butt in this movie . Over all I think this was a really movie , it's crazy and a bit much , but I like that Rogan took a different turn than the usual comedy that he releases every year . So just know what you're getting into if you're going to see this movie , it's creepy , but if you have an open mind to a dark comedy , then I think you'll have fun with it . Not to mention if you do or have worked at a mall , you will have a great appreciation for this movie .
Plenty O'Toole ? LOL ! Now I get it !	Well , I got it in the film , I just had to come up with a title line . You know , I think I was expecting too much because both my parents said that this is their favorite James Bond flick . Out of the other two I've seen , Goldfinger and Dr . No , this was the third favorite in my pick . Still , I had fun watching this flick . It has all it's cheesy cliché moments in a James Bond flick . The girl he falls for , the great gadgets , and a super villain who needs to learn a little more from his " Taking over the world for Dummies " book . This time there are priceless diamonds that James needs to protect a villain from . Along with Case , his sexy new villain turned good girl / friend , they find a way to trick the villain and once again save the day .
All I have to say to the teenagers is " Run , bitch ! Ruuuun ! ! ! "	Not bad , I just saw this movie on Cinemax , I thought it was actually pretty entertaining . Well , what can you say about The Blob ? First off , this is the remake of the original Blob from the 50's which was megga cheesy . I have to say that also this movie was megga cheesy , but in some ways just more fun to watch . You know I just love the fact that the cheerleader goes from this cute little girl talking all lightly and being in general you're typical cheerleader , then when she starts to fight back at the blob , she goes all Rambo screaming " Come on ! You want some of this ! You son of a . . . " well , you get the picture . The characters and plot is very typical , but like I said , I think this was just a cheesy good time for movies . So over all I would recommend this fun little horror movie . Although , I have to still admit that a moving jello isn't that horrifying , I kept on expecting Bill Cosby to come out and say " There's always room for jello ! "
It's a cute movie	That's pretty much it . " Blast from the Past " has a decent amount of laughs and fun . Brandon and Alicia are adorable together . And the story is very original and interesting . Adam is a boy who grew up in a bomb shelter with his parents , who fear that a nuclear bomb struck from the cold war . For 35 years they raise Adam to be a perfect gentleman . When he wants to meet a lady and the parents need more suplies for the shelter , they send him up to face the world of the 90's . He meets a girl , Eve . She seems cold at first , but they both fall for each other . The story lacks a little something in some area . I thought they maybe should've gotten more into the love story , because I felt like it was too quick . But this is a cute and wonderful film . I would recommend for romantic comedy type of lovers . They would more than likely get into the film .
I expected better , but it's still a good film	I was so excited to rent Dan in Real Life , from the original movie trailer , this looked like it was going to be a great film , unfortunately , I never got to seeing it in the theater . But as soon as it was out on rental , I grabbed it without hesitation , I love Steve Carell so much , he's a great actor and has terrific comedic elements . So I watched this film last night and I have to say while it's still a good movie and has some really fun moments , I was expecting a little more . I think the story was a little predictable and the characters in the film , well , 99 % of them were not likable at all . Dan was the only character who seemed likable and very normal , his daughters ( excluding his youngest ) were very immature and obnoxious . His brother , Mitch was extremely fake and also very annoying . The story is original but becomes a little predictable and turns into something that could've been more unique . Dan is a widower with his three daughters , life seems very depressing for him , his oldest can't wait to drive , his middle girl is in a lustful relationship , and his youngest is just begging for attention . He is also very lonely ; on a weekend vacation with his family , he meets a lady , Marie , they talk on and on , but she says she has a boyfriend . Later on back at his parent's house , he sees Marie again , guess what ? Her boyfriend is his brother , Mitch , can you smell the tension ? Now they have to get through the weekend together trying to forget the chemistry they had . Dan in Real Life is definitely worth the look , no doubt about it . Steve pulls in a very good performance , Dane Cook , surprisingly does as well . It's a nice feel good movie of the year that will have you smiling in some scenes for sure . I just love how Dan keeps bumping into the cop for his driving scenes , " just put it on my tab " , the way he said that was just so funny . Unfortunately the story could've been more , that's the only thing that was disappointing I'd have to say . It's good , but it could've been better , but I still recommend this movie , it is a good one , just I'm glad I rented before I bought .
Makes you want to go the distance ( probably in Russia ) and hit someone ( someone probably Russian ) , don't worry that's a joke ! :	Well , the fourth installment into the Rocky series was a good one . To be honest , I had my doubts because there were some people warning me to stay away , but there were a few good replies and I also saw this on " I love the 80's : 3D " , and it looked like a blast . It was , even though there are some minor flaws , you still just get into it because you can't help it . The Rocky series wither you want to admit it or not is a great one ! " No Pain ! No Pain ! " , I just loved that line because it gave Rocky so much get up and go for to defeat Ivan . I mean this guy killed a nice man , Carl Weathers , you were just begging for justice ! But you don't want to hate Ivan , he's just another boxer and " if he dies , he dies " , right ? But it was so much fun watching Rocky train in Russia and do it just on his own with the support of his friends on his side . It was very touching with Rocky's speech of changing your feelings at the end . It was very touching and I'm really surprised at the 5 . 3 on IMDb . I thought more fans would have enjoyed this one , really . Just sit back and enjoy , you better be " russian " to Blockbuster to see Rocky IV ! :
Part 3-I'm afraid there's not enough room in this De Lauren for the two of us	Well , I just finished the Back to the Future trilogy and all I have to say is that I was pleasantly surprised and relieved that I finally had the opportunity to see these films . Without a doubt , the first was my favorite , the second was my second favorite , and the third worked , but it didn't work as well as the other two movies . Part three worked the same formulas from the first and second , but some of the situations just seemed a tad too unrealistic . Marty and The Doc are now in the Wild Wild West way back in 1885 , and as you know the tools are not quite advanced as they are in 1985 , so they have to figure out the best they can on how to get back to the future . But Doc falls in love with a woman he saves from going over a cliff , Clara , and Marty has been challenged by Mad Dog , or Biff in a different generation , to a duel . This is a major problem since Marty found a tombstone in the future with a possibility of having either his or Doc's name on it . Well , I'm really glad that I had the opportunity to see these Back to the Future films , because they were good movies . I have to say that I was wrong , I tried to stay away from these films , I'll admit , because it just seemed so hokey and not my type of movie , but I think that's a major problem we all need to work on and not be so judgmental before we typecast a movie that we think we won't like because we might end up with little treasures .
Are you kidding ? ! I loved this Karate Kid !	After a very disappointing Part 3 , I kinda wondered if I should even bother with The Next Karate Kid , while I could see why this saga wouldn't continue , I still enjoyed The Next Karate Kid most out of the second and the third Karate Kid movies . While there are some very unrealistic moments and situations , it was very enjoyable and the story is a catchy and warm one . Hilary Swank , has this girl come far or what ? She plays a rebel girl who has lost her parents to a car accident and when Miaugi sort of " babysits " her per say , he notices that she has karate skills . He offers her more lessons if she becomes more serious in life . Now of course there is the boy that likes her and the mean bullies that are pretty similar to the first Karate Kid , but I would recommend this one . I think you'll be pleasantly surprised .
A fun vampire cult flick that is blood thirsty fun !	A few years ago , while I was renting some movies , I came across Subspecies 4 , ended up watching it and actually kind of liking it , we need a good vampire gore flick that doesn't hold back . But when I went back to the video store , they said they didn't have any other Subspecies videos , unfortunately , the same went for any other video store I checked out . I gave up , until someone on youtube actually posted all the Subspecies films and I got to watch them all last night and I'm hooked . I am now a fan of the Full Moon Subspecies series . I think because this was the type of horror film I have been looking for , I've been looking for a good cheesy scare for a long time and Subspecies filled that spot . Radu is one of the coolest vampires on screen and almost gives Nosferatu a run for his fangs ! Radu is an evil vampire who is after his blood stone , his birth rite , the stone contains some blood that is absolutely incredible and gives him strength . Three American girls who are studying Romanian history and culture bump into a man , Stephan , who offers to help . They stay at Radu's castle where we find out that Stephan is Radu's brother ; Radu seduces and turns two of the girls , but Stephan falls for one of the girls , Michelle , and will do anything to protect her . Subspecies is a fun series , despite the cheesy effects , it makes it in some ways more likable . Plus Radu was a perfect villain as Stephan was the perfect angel like romantic vampire . The story is chilling and I think this was a fun vampire movie . This was also the first in the series , the best part is , the sequels are just as fun . I would recommend this for a scary movie night , watch it in the dark , Radu is sure to send shivers down your spine , or even your neck . . . OK , cheesy joke , couldn't resist .
Has the story , but doesn't know how to deliver just right	I actually saw this movie a couple of years ago , but I just thought about it now . Not sure why . Hmm , I'll put it on my list of questions that need answering . Hee hee . Just kidding ! " Dracula Rising " isn't a bad movie , but it's not great . It has a great story with a lot of romance and horror . I'm also a fan of Christopher Atkins , that partly helped too . This was a movie at the time I rented it , couldn't get out of my head . I would recommend it for vampire or Dracula lovers . And I mean movies ! Ahem . Overall , a good movie that just needed more direction . That's all , but there is something in this film you just have to enjoy . How in the heck otherwise would I have thought about it in a couple of years ?
A little strange , but I like it	This is such a dark Disney movie . I was a little surprised by it . But I actually enjoyed it . POSSIBLE SPOILERSDorothy is back from Oz . And no one believes her story . They think she's gone mad . When she finds a key back to Oz , she goes back . Finding that the land has changed . It's lifeless . She gets some new friends . And the journey continues .
Go Ninja Go Ninja Go !	Good times once again as we return with our turtles in a half shell , Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles II : The Secret of the Ooze is the popular sequel to the very popular and successful movie Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles . We had some minor changes to this film , while the first movie was a success , parents complained of it's dark nature and mild cursing . So this film was a little brighter and family friendly , while it drug the film down a little for some odd reason I still loved this movie . Not only me but some of my other friends loved it as well , I don't know if it's because we grew up with this film or whatever , but we still have so much fun watching it despite it's cheesy themes and the fact that Vanilla Ice makes a cameo with the ever infamous Ninja Rap that he knew the lyrics and dance too before he even knew the song existed . The Turtles have been forced to live with their friend the news reporter April O'Neil because the Foot Clan know the whereabouts of their lair in the sewers . While the Turtles are looking for a new home , they encounter a pizza delivery boy named Keno , who is trying to fight off a band of robbers by means of his skill as a martial artist , where the Turtles intervene on his behalf . The Foot Clan , no longer as large as it was in the first film , have retreated to a large junkyard , where Master Tatsu , Shredder's second in command , attempts to take control of the gang , but is challenged by Shredder himself . Shredder was thought to be dead . He now appears physically deformed and obsessed with obtaining revenge , to achieve which he sends a Foot member to pose as an intern at the news network and trail April . April is shown making a report on the efforts of an industrial organization known as TGRI to neutralize pollutants that have resulted from their experiments . Splinter , seeing the report on television , shows the Turtles and April the canister of " ooze " that had caused himself and the Turtles to mutate into their present forms , revealing that it was made by the TGRI . The Turtles infiltrate the TGRI offices to seize a sample of the ooze , only to encounter Tatsu and the Foot . Despite the Turtles ' efforts to stop them , Tatsu and the Foot escape , taking the last canister of ooze and Professor Jordan Perry with them . Shredder later instructs Perry to use the ooze to transform a snapping turtle and a wolf into monsters , creating the characters Tokka and Rahzar . Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles II : The Secret of the Ooze is silly and over the top , but it's still a really fun movie and has all the action and good times the first one had . I absolutely loved the scene where the turtles try to trick Tokka and Rahzar with the donuts , inside the donuts are the cure to make them small again , but of course they don't fall for it after a while and the turtles have the butts handed back to them , big time . I also love the little flaw where the last film Shredder is crushed in a garbage truck , he comes back to life , but he becomes super Shredder where nothing should kill him at all , except for a bridge that falls on him and the turtles , but the turtles manage to survive , lol . It's all good though , this is just a fun movie and I'll always watch it , besides you have to keep that Ninja Rap alive .
Incredibly predictable , but you still enjoy it because it is Will Ferrel	I thought this movie would have been hopeless , but Will was the only thing that kept this movie going . I was only impressed with his comedic performance . There were a few cute kids , but some were very scary . The plot , you pretty much can guess if you have watched " Kindergarten Cop " . But you might enjoy this if you enjoy these feel good movies . You will get a few laughs and giggles . Especially with the little Babison , I think his name was . He was very funny . I would recommend this for a RENT , not what I paid to see it . But it is worth a watch for Will's sake . If you enjoy his work , then you'll enjoy " Kicking and Screaming " .
A precious 80's time capsule	I just bought a DVD with About Last Night and St . Elmo's Fire both on it , for five dollars , I figured they might be worth a look . I watched St . Elmo's fire last night and I have to say that I was very impressed . Like About Last Night , this is still a very important story to this day . I have to say that both these films got to me very much because I have had to deal with the exact same situation , a relationship that had to find more than the physical attraction and now that I'm 22 , dealing with an adult life . St . Elmo's Fire deals with the scary and nerve wrecking times transcending from the college life style to young adulthood . Going into a career and possible family is a lot harder than it looks , and that's what our brat pack friends have to deal with . A group of friends who have just graduated college are now facing the real world of discovering who they are . We have a couple who are in a relationship where the man wants to get married but is fooling around and the girl doesn't want to marry him . We have a girl , Jules , who is having financial troubles and is using her looks to get what she wants . We have a man , Kirby , who is obsessed with a love from childhood . Another guy , Billy , who can't grow up despite him having a child and wife . A girl , Wendy , who is learning not to rely on her father's money and is still going through the awkward faze of her looks . And last but not least , Kevin , who is in love with his best friend's girlfriend and is also a writer . St . Elmo's Fire is a good film and I know that this was one of Joel Schumacher's first films , he did a decent job I think . It's in some ways an important film of today and also is a classic in it's own right . It's one of the major brat pack films and also brought together a great story that everyone could relate too in some way . Despite how dated it is , it's a timeless story of the fears that we face having to grow up . Not too many people pay attention to this hard time in a young adult's life , so St . Elmo's Fire is a great way of taking a look at the situation . It's a good film and I recommend it .
I wonder if Tommy Lee Jones ever cared ? :	The Fugitive is a fun action movie that keeps you going until the cool ending . We've got terrific actors , Harrison and Tommy who play cat and mouse very well . My only problem with the film was that I didn't know if they wanted this to be an action movie or a drama / suspense thriller . It had exciting explosions but then turned into a soap opera . Not to mention a miraculous survival off a dam . Well , I mean , whip or light sabor , I love Harrison , but geez , yes , it was cool , but someone had to look at the dam scene and wonder too if it was believable . I would recommend the Fugivtive because like I said , it's a fun great paced action / thriller with some minor flaws . But I'd say grab the popcorn and enjoy Tommy's best line ever " I don't care ! "
A surprisingly effective thriller	I saw The Watcher in the movie theaters with my dad and sister , in 2000 , I think this was my favorite film . Watching it now , I still enjoy it very much , despite some questionable moments , I think this was a very well planned thriller that sends chills down your spine and makes you watch your back to make sure you are not being followed . Keanu Reeves as a villain , actually , in some sick way , it works , he does have the creepiness vibe down . I mean , this is Keanu Reeves we're talking about and he's actually pretty good in this film . I would say him and Marissa carry the film very well together . James Spader does an alright job . But the story is a very good one that I'm sure you'll like . Joel is a detective who has just moved to Chicago to get away from some bad situations where he used to live . Mainly to get away from a love who was murdered , but the murderer he was investigating follows him to Chicago . The murderer , David Griffin , studies females , memorizes their schedules , tortures and kills them . But now he's mocking the police when he gives them a picture of a girl and gives them 24 hours to find her , but they keep failing . David wants Joes to admit that they are one of a kind and that they need each other . He even goes as far as to attack Joel's psychiatrist , Polly , who is close to Joel . The Watcher was by no means film of the year , but I felt like it was an intelligent thriller . The only thing I didn't like about the film was the whole situation with David giving the photos to the police , them broadcasting it across the news , and yet somehow they fail ? No one recognized these girls ? It just seemed a tad unbelievable . But other than that , I would recommend this film , I thought it was good and if you enjoy thrillers , I think you'll like it too .
A different twist on Meet the Parents sort of speak	Actually , I know many people didn't enjoy The In-Laws , but for some reason , I found it to be hilarious ! I am in love with Michael Douglas , I think he is a very under rated actor and for the most part , his best characters go into comedies . I just loved it when he comes up to Albert and says " You lying to me ? Cause if you are . . . " in the scariest voice like he's going to kill you and he'll know if you are lying , Albert of course comes to his lying defense and says " no " . . . " Oh , OK ! " in the happiest response from Michael . I feel that you should definitely give The In-laws a chance , it's a fun movie . If you enjoyed " Meet the Fockers " , then come on ! You definitely will enjoy The In-laws !
Charming	Look Who's Talking is such a great classic , one of my great memories of childhood , every weekend when I would go to my grandparent's place , they would let me pick a movie and we would watch it together , very often I would pick Look Who's Talking or Look Who's Talking Too , they were just such fun movies to watch and laugh at . When I grew up , I realized I hadn't seen the movie in so many years , but it was on TV the other day and I figured I would have a little blast from the past and watch it . You know what's strange about this movie ? It's actually more for adults rather than the kids , but this became such a family friendly movie , but that's why many people say they don't make them like they used too , because writing where it is more aimed at the adults but it ends up being something that every age can enjoy is clever and this is one of the most fun movies of the 90's . Mollie Jensen is an accountant living and working in New York City . The latest client she has been assigned by her firm is a charmingly-handsome but shallow womanizing executive named Albert who seduces her and although married embarks on an affair with Mollie , promising to leave his wife for her . Mollie becomes pregnant with his child . After realizing she is pregnant she informs Albert who takes the news well and again promises to leave his wife and raise the baby with her . Mollie continues her relationship with Albert as the pregnancy develops , however he's seeing another woman . Later when Mollie and her best friend Rona are shopping Mollie finds Albert in a clinch with the other woman . Angry and upset , a heart-broken Mollie storms off in a rage while the fight causes her to suddenly go into labor . When she hails a cab the driver James Ubriacco realizes the seriousness of the situation and speeds off to the hospital . Upon reaching the hospital , the nurses ' confuse him for being the father of Mollie's baby and he feels inclined to stay . Mollie gives birth to a son she names Michael . A few days after " Mikey " is brought home , Mollie receives a visit from James , where he returns the purse she left behind in his taxi . James meets Mikey , and they seem to enjoy each others company . Mollie starts dating again , but quickly realizes that none of the men she has been seeing are good enough for Mikey and one night she lets her guard down and almost sleeps with James ; however after imagining what life would be like if she married him , she asks him to leave , despite James telling her he loves both her and Mikey . Look Who's Talking is a charming movie that I'm sure won't disappoint you , it's cute , romantic , funny , and has a great cast . It's a realistic look at what happens with unplanned pregnancy and John Travolta's character , James , becomes the ultimate and unexpected hero of the movie . I hope that I meet a guy like James one day , he was just so lovable . I also adored Bruce Willis ' voice , he was a perfect fit for Mikey . Kristy Alley , she plays the crazy mother , but you see all that her character goes through and you just feel awful for her . This is such a great movie , I highly recommend it if you get the chance to see it , it's a great classic .
Think pink !	I was surprised . I honestly thought that " Legally Blonde " was going to be a dumb movie . I mean , I liked " Clueless " . But I was a teenager , and didn't care too much about meaningful movies . Today , I like drama's more than comedies . But sometimes , you have to let that go and just have fun with a movie . " Legally Blonde " is a cute movie . Reese Witherspoon is such a sweetheart . And it looked like the cast had a lot of fun with the film . Normally , I'm not into chick flicks , but I would recommend it . Like I said , just let go . Have some fun and remember to think pink !
It has it's funny moments	I actually was surprised when I first saw this movie . I thought it was going to be lame . But I am a big Seth Green fan , so I sat down and watched it . And I liked it . I went out and bought it on DVD , and I saw the alternate ending , and other scenes that were cut out . I was a little disappointed in the ending they chose . But I still enjoyed Idle Hands .
It is a very good movie , but just a little slow paced	OK , OK , I have to be honest . I've seen " Killing Me Softly " and " Forever Mine " and I have a little crush on Joesph Fiennes . And just recently , I got my best friend hooked on him as well . So , we were looking for a good movie and on IMDb , a person recommended this as a good J . F . flick . My friend and looked at the rating and it did say " some sexuality " for it's Rated R ! We were excited , Joe does have a cute butt after all . : D So , I watched this movie first just looking for a good insert word that shouldn't be inserted scene . I was disappointed ! I watched it a second time trying to except that there was no Joesph booty in the film . The second time , I actually kind of enjoyed it . It was very sad and showed the Russian struggles during WWII . They endured a lot of heart ache and sadness . The acting and directing was above average . I would recommend for a good war flick not a booty flick unfortunately . : (
One of Adam's funnier movies	I decided to get into the older Adam Sandler movies because I did hear a lot about them . I also heard about how funny Happy Gilmore was , my mom had mentioned how she had it , so I decided to give it a chance . To my surprise , I had an excellent time watching this movie . I have to say that this is actually one of my favorite Adam Sandler movies . My favorite part was Adam getting the crock as a gift for Carl Weathers as a Thank You present . But he screams , and well , I don't want to give the spoiler . You'll just have to see it . Happy Gilmore is a very funny movie with some terrific actors and I guarantee that you will at least get a few laughs .
Well , there it is then	And then came Bonnie and Clyde , no just kidding . Um , " Unfaithful " was an interesting film . I had heard a lot about it , and while I was at Blockbuster , I remembered wanting to see it . The plot : Connie is a married woman , who seems like she's got it all . A loving husband and a wonderful son . When by accident in an alley she meets a very handsome french man , Paul . They start a steamy love affair , but Connie's husband , Edward , does find out . He confronts Paul and murders him , technically he's just out of his mind for the moment . The FBI investigates , obviously Connie is caught between all the lies with Edward . But I think they live happily ever after . Good movie , but I do not think they knew how to end it correctly .
The things that are so simple : good and evil , heroes and villains , but what is good and what makes a hero ?	I was interested in seeing Flags of Our Fathers , in high school and college , for my history classes , WWII was the most interesting subject and I've always loved learning about the different battles and historic moments of that time . The men who raised the flag at Iwo was something I never had an opportunity to study , I was lucky enough in junior high to see the statue in Washington , D . C . , but I never understood what it meant , that's why I was looking forward to Flags of Our Fathers . I was interested in what the flag truly meant to the people and I'd say that Flags of Our Fathers was a great story to tell . As I stated , one of the most memorable pictures of WWII was the men raising the American flag in victory . But do we know who those men were ? What they were thinking about when they raised the flag ? Was the flag staged ? How did the men feel being called heroes coming home when they just witnessed so many of their friends being slaughtered ? What makes a hero and could we really say who was the good and who was the bad of every war ? Flags of Our Fathers showed what we are still living with to this day , with the war in Iraq , we are very quick to call every soldier a hero , but sort of like Ira said in the movie " I was just dodging bullets " , I don't think we could ever understand what these men went through and what it must have been like coming home to everyone applauding them when they just lost their brother or best friend , then being forgot after a while . While this isn't the best WWII movie , I don't think it's one to be missed , so please do give this movie a look , I think people need to understand what these men have gone through .
" I've been a bad , bad girl "	Recently I saw the theatrical trailer for Resident Evil : Extinction and it occurred to me , I have never seen the first two Resident Evil films , and I always wanted to see them . So I rented the first two Resident Evil films and watched them last night . I had a lot of fun watching Resident Evil , it was very high action and kept my heart racing on what would happen next . This is a great movie based on a video game , this is the kind of movie that we need if we are talking about basing it on a video game . I haven't seen a good one since Mortal Kombat . The action and effects were so awesome not to mention that there are some very awesome scares in here . Very cool make up for the zombies ; and the story was excellent . A virus breaks out in a lab called the Hive where everyone is held in captivity and dies . All of a sudden we see a woman passed out in a shower , she has no idea who she is , she meets two other men who have no idea who they are , but they are taken by soldiers who take them underground to the Hive . There the three learn that they are fighters for this out break and that also they might be part of what happened . The main thing is that they control the Hive , but that gets more difficult when the virus has turned the people it killed into the living dead , zombies . The woman , Alice , turns into the leader and must find out why this happened and also how they can get out alive without contaminating the world . Resident Evil was an awesome movie to watch and I would highly recommend this movie for anyone who loves action movies . If you loved Mortal Kombat I'm sure you'll love Resident Evil . There are so many great scenes , but my favorite was when Alice saw the evil dogs and they chased her throughout the lab , it was really scary but so awesome to watch . Well , you'll just have to see what I mean . Milla Jovovich was just a perfect choice for Alice , she is such a cool character and now I'm really looking forward to seeing Extinction .
I wanna see a spin off with the penguins !	I am a fan of the first Madagascar film , I know there are a lot of people who dissed it , but I thought it was cute . So when I saw the trailer for Madagascar : Escape 2 Africa , I was excited . I saw it on Friday and I absolutely enjoyed this fun family film . I think this even had a more coherent plot as well , plus how could you not love the penguins ? They are absolutely hilarious and need their own movie , maybe a Full Metal Jacket with penguins ! Anyways , I loved the characters so much , they're back and better than ever . They even ended up giving the little old lady from the first Madagascar who fought Alex the Lion , she has a bigger role and was so awesome to watch and listen too . I think the jokes were even funnier than the first Madagascar , my favorite scene without a doubt was the plane sequence in the beginning . But the whole story was just a blast to watch . Alex , Marty , Gloria , and Melman are still looking to go back to Africa , everything seems to be a good and they start to fly back with the penguins as well as Julien . But the plane runs out of fuel and crashes , they are still in Africa , but bump into an animal pack where Alex finds his long lost parents , Marty finds out that all zebras are like him ( imagine being surrounded by 1 , 000 Chris Rocksshudder ) , Gloria has a hunky hippo who is crushing on her , and Melman becomes the giraffe witch doctor of his group . Alex is about to be initiated into his pride , but one lion does not want him part of the group and will do anything to become leader . Madagascar : Escape 2 Africa is definitely worth your watch , it's not the animated film of the year , but it was a lot of fun to watch . It kind of reminded me of The Lion King a little bit , it has a similar story . It's a great family film and is fun for both the kids and the adults as well . Although I still think it's funny that Alex is voiced by Ben Stiller and his dad is voiced by Bernie Mac , but it's all good , who knows , maybe Alex's dad just had a little more soul in him . I would recommend this film , it was a lot of fun to watch and I suggest we write in a script for those penguins ! They're a blast to watch on screen .
Oh , come on . It's a cute movie .	I was a little bit disappointed to see that this movie is a 4 . 8 on IMDb . After all it's not that bad . It's a funny story with a romantic plot . No , of course it isn't Oscar material , and it's not the ultimate comedy . But it's just a feel good movie that you'll enjoy if you're into cheesiness . Honestly , if you're telling me that you couldn't laugh at Captain Felix and his dog , Rambo , you must not have a funny bone . Especially for that funny scene where he and Mr . Richards end up in that car chase with Jonathan and Emmy , I mean come on , you had to laugh at that . There are also more than a few funny scenes that I thought more people would get a kick out of . Apparently , I was wrong , but please do give this movie a chance . I grew up with it and still love it ' till this day . Not to mention every time I hear that song " Nothing's gonna stop us " I think of the mall . :
Charming	I didn't know what the heck Penelope was , I only saw the trailer once and it looked very strange , I only saw the poster more than a few times and it again , didn't really catch my interest . But my friends and I decided to check it out and I'm actually glad that I saw it . As silly story that it is and a bit predictable , it's a good movie . Most romantic comedies tick me off because they are so predictable and the it's the same formula each time , Penelope is close to the same formula , but instead adds a fairy tale twist . It has the same moral of the story as most films of having to accept yourself , but Christina Ricci made it more charming and lovable . The cast was perfect and all did a great job , the looked like they had such a good time bringing this story to life . Penelope seems like the girl that should be living the high life , a wealthy family , part of royalty , but her life isn't perfect . Due to a shallow mistake her ancestor made , a witch cursed a face of a pig onto the next born daughter , that happens to be Penelope who apparently has to marry a man of royal blood to break the curse . But since she's not the prettiest face on the planet , every man runs from her , but Max , a spy sent by a photographer , Max learns that Penelope is a beautiful soul . Penelope runs away though to find her freedom and instead finds herself and how wonderful she truly is . Penelope is a very cute film , I was very impressed with the story , there were some things I was a little disappointed in , like how they just abandoned some characters for no reason . But I think it's hard to fit it in a short film , still I think it could have been edited better . But Christina Ricci was a great choice for Penelope , even though she's still oddly enough not the ugliest woman I've ever seen with the nose , she did a good job and held her own well . Reese Witherspoon , small role , but she was so charming . I would recommend Penelope , it's a cute film and was a lot of fun to watch .
Shagadelic , baby , yeah !	When I saw " Austin Powers " , I was on the floor laughing . This movie has every single memorable line you could possibly imagine . From " Yeah , baby ! " to " Riiiiiight " , Mike Myers is a genius when it comes to comedy ! I think everyone could say that they laughed at least once to this film . Paroding of the James Bond flicks , Austin Powers is an international spy who is a lady's man . Dr . Evil , is Arch Nemesis , goes into the future of 1997 and now Austin must travel through time to find him . When he gets to 1997 , he has a beautiful assistant , Vanessa , who happens to be the daughter of his former flame in the 60's . Vanessa resists Austin's charm and wants to stick to business while Austin is wasting no time to get to his " business " with her . Dr . Evil learns that he has a son , Scott played by Seth Green . When Scott isn't as excited to have Dr . Evil as a father , Dr . Evil tries anything he can to get Scott to love him , including a hilarious scene in a counseling group for father's and son's . But back into action , Austin must find Dr . Evil before he rules the world with his kitty , Mr . Bigglesworth . But can he do that and have Vanessa at the same time ? You'll just have to see ! My favorite characters that worked so well together was without a doubt Seth and Mike as Dr . Evil and Scott . They are just beyond hilarious and work so well together . I think a lot of the other Austin Powers fans would agree . There first scene together meeting is just really funny , " Give Daddy a hug ! I'm down with the kids , ducka ducka ducka ! " " No ! Get away from me you psycho ! " . Classic ! Like I said " Austin Powers " is just a great and funny movie that I think you can get into if you're looking for a decent comedy . Come on ! We still say " Yeah , baby ! " to this very day after all ! Let's give Mike some credit here !
Pretty good	This film delivers drama , action , romance , humor , and suspension . It has everything you could want in a fantasy movie . Kathleen Turner and Michael Douglas make a great duo . I would recommend this if you enjoyed " The Princess Bride " .
Denzel Washington : An Actor's Director	I admit it , I'm such a lover of the over cheesy rubbing the message in your face movies , The Great Debaters was of course going to be no exception . It also won the golden globe for best drama of 2007 and I couldn't wait to see how Denzel does in the director's chair . I rented The Great Debaters and watched it the other day and the main thing about this movie that makes it great is the acting . I mean the story is fantastic , but it couldn't have been told any better because of the three young actors in this movie : Nate Parker , Jurnee Smollett , and Denzel Whitaker . We also have stellar performances from Denzel and Forrest as well of course , but it's just these three young actors that I have never seen before or heard of that just blew me away . They presented themselves with class , intelligence , and courage to carry on in the tough world they lived in . Henry , Samantha , and James are three young black students who have joined a debate team led by Melvin Tolson . They all live in Texas and have to deal with the harsh world of racism , where black people are lynched without knowledge of what they did that was so wrong . But the team pulls in strong together to win several debates despite their color and the ignorance that surrounds them , eventually leading them into competing against Harvard University . The Great Debaters is just a terrific movie , it's very inspirational and makes you think . Denzel as a director , he could be a little more visionary in my opinion , but he makes a great actor's director because he just delivers all the actor's best . Denzel Whitaker's last debate against Harvard brought me to tears , the honesty that just comes from his words makes you want to stand up and clap after his speech . I would very much recommend The Great Debaters , it is worth the watch and I'm sure will have you cheering at the end .
Very " heart " warming , it touched my " heart " , it was incredibly " heart " felt . . . OK , you get the idea	Oh , my goodness , this was a sweet movie ! I just absolutely fell in love with " Return to me " it's sickening . My friend lent this to me and told me that it was a very good movie and to give it a chance . I was very grateful for the recommendation because it is a very good flick to watch on an afternoon . David has just lost his wife to a car accident , but this gives another person , Minnie's character , the chance to live by having a heart transplant with David's late wife's heart . They happen to meet by chance at her restaurant and are instantly attracted to each other , but neither knows until later on that the heart that is beating inside her is David's late wife . Can their relationship survive with this crazy coincidence ? I guess you'll have to see , and please do . It's a good movie that I think anyone can enjoy .
An amusing film from the popular TV series " The Addams Family "	" The Adams Family " is a very funny film that is very under rated . With a great all star cast you get just what you expect , a great comedy . The TV show was already funny enough , and then the movie came and I was on the floor laughing . It's fun to see a happy dysfunctional family . No , I'm not talking about " The Osbornes " . All the characters are great and you really get into it . If you can tell me that you honestly did not get one laugh from this film , there is something very wrong with you . Because it is a very funny film . I would recommend this to anyone . It's a good watch on any day .
Call me crazy , but I enjoyed the first one a little more	I thought that as far as sequels go , this was a great follow up . But , Spider Man 2 was , for me , lacking something that the first one had . It's crazy , but I can't point it out . I just enjoyed the first one more . The special effects are amazing . The acting is fine . I do give Sam a lot of credit . He did a great job on the sequel . Like I said , it just didn't give me the same satisfaction like the first one did . I would recommend . Especially if you enjoyed the first one , you will like this one . I think M . J . annoyed me a little bit in this one . That was my number one complaint . But maybe I need to give it another shot . I'll try .
A little unusual , but still another home run for Hitchcock !	I'm not too into the war movies , at least not the one's that get intensely into it . But Saboteur worked for me actually , Barry and his friend are just coming in from WWII , when they bump into a man who has dropped some items , they kindly and honestly give him his things back . But when there's a horrible fire and Barry's best friend is tragically killed and now he's getting the blame for the fire . Barry won't go without a fight until his has proved his innocence . The most touching moment of the movie is when Barry is running , he is welcomed into a blind man's house who can see more than he's granted for . Without even judging him , the blind man is so kind an believes Barry's innocence and asks his niece , Patricia , to help him out . With some obvious patriot messages , this is still another great masterpiece by Hitchcock .
A cute , campy , fun movie to watch if you are into vampires	Ah , our precious 80's , a time of great music , interesting taste in fashion , action movies and goofy teen horror films . During this time we had films like : Teen Wolf , Once Bitten , Teen Witch , movies that involved our classic horror stories with the world of a teenager . What would happen if a teenager was a werewolf , zombie , or even a vampire . So I was watching TV and came across My Best Friend is a Vampire , don't know why , just figured I would check it out , actually I seemed to like it . So I went out and bought it and watched the unedited version of course and still actually found myself having fun watching this movie . While it's not exactly the most original idea and there are some really silly moments , I think My Best Friend is a Vampire is a small little gem . Jeremy Capello is a typical American teenager fighting with the usual problem of getting himself a girlfriend . Although he has someone interested in him , he has his eyes on his classmate Darla Blake , but she in turn is unnerved by his constant staring at her . Recently , Jeremy has been having some weird nightmares about a strange woman trying to seduce him , and later he actually encounters that woman named Nora , who makes an obvious invitation to him , while delivering groceries . His skirt-chasing friend Ralph convinces him to take up the opportunity for a first erotic experience . But the encounter goes badly : first the woman bites him in the neck , then two strangers burst into the house , forcing Jeremy to run for his life . Next morning , Jeremy looks pale and does not feel well . Also , over the day he notices a strange man observing him . This man pops into his bedroom the very next night , introduces himself as Modoc and carefully attempts to relate to Jeremy that he is now a vampire . Jeremy of course is at first skeptical , to say the least , but a sudden aversion to garlic , an increasing sensitivity to sunlight and a craving for blood slowly convince him otherwise . His new vampire " life-style " hampers his attempts to start a relationship with Darla , who has finally become interested in him ; otherwise Jeremy begins to adapt to the minor impacts the change has brought to his life . I think the reason I loved this film was because of it's camp value and the actors that seemed to enjoy making this movie . I nearly died laughing when the vampire slayers that are supposed to be after Jeremy think that his best friend , who's mortal , is the vampire they want to slay . They finally capture him and are just so over the top with it , all the times they think he's a vampire , he just thinks that they're perverts . I also loved how Jeremy's parents are trying to figure out what's wrong with their son , they come to the conclusion that he is gay . Plus you gotta love how it's awkward enough being a teenager , imagine going through your teen years as a vampire . I'd recommend My Best Friend is a Vampire , it's nothing too special , but it's a funny little movie that was over looked at a time of teen witches and werewolves .
One of the better remakes , doesn't insult the original	Honestly , I was extremely nervous about this remake , because The Omen didn't need to be remade , it was a great film . But my friends and I were still interested to see what they changed or destroyed . You know what ? It was actually a good film . First with the casting , Julia Styles ? I was in deep question because she is still very young and this seemed like a stretch from her teen flick days . She did a great job as a mother and the victim of the story . Her nightmare sequences were terrifying . Liev also did not as well , but a decent performance , especially at the end of the film . Damien , that kid has two lines in the film , but what a presence ! You know what ? He was scarier than the original Damien . Mia Farrow played an awesome nanny from Hell , she was so disturbingly sweet . Although there were a few things I would have done a little different still , I think this was a decent remake . Some sequences that were a little more intense than the original , which I enjoyed . But also some characters seemed to quickly jump out . The deaths were also a little more elaborate than the original , which I disagreed with because I think if this was true , come on . The Devil could have been a little more subtle with his presence . But still give this flick a chance , it's a good movie .
Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire	Wow , poor Harry just can't get a break and a decent year at Hogwarts ? Well , I just completed the series that is on DVD at least , hoping to see the new Harry Potter and the Order of Phoenix this weekend with my friends , looking forward to it . I'm glad I finally broke down and watched these movies , I knew I had to give in some time since these films are just going to keep coming , you know ? Well , The Goblet of Fire is so far the darkest Harry Potter I've seen , but also the best . I loved the whole concept of how Harry can face evil magic , wizards , and dragons , but his scariest time yet : the truth about the birds and the bees . So far I have to say that Goblet of Fire is my favorite Harry Potter film . Harry is now in his fourth year in Hogwarts and there is a huge contest that is going on for a grand prize , only thing is from each wizard school , only one is chosen to win the prize and you must be 17 or older to enter , but for some odd reason Harry is chosen to participate even though he is only 14 . Facing extremely difficult obstacles , he pulls through and makes it in time for the big ball dance that Hogwarts is throwing and he and Ron must find a way to get a date . But there is more trouble when Lord Voldemort is finally about to rise and I don't think Harry is on his good side . The Goblet of Fire was a brilliant movie and is probably my new favorite of the Harry Potter films . It had amazing effects and great acting as usual . It was different as well since the kids are now a little more grown up , so they are facing scary adventures , but it's very exciting to watch . I cannot wait for the Order of Phoenix and see where Harry Potter will take us next . Then I guess it's off to the books since I should probably see what everyone is talking about when they say how the books don't compare to the films .
One of the most grizzly movies I have ever seen	First off , I will complain somewhat about this movie , I feel that the negative should usually be written first . Man , this was a trip of a film , you keep going back and forth between stories , which eventually I did understand why the director did it that way . It really isn't an optimistic film , it's very dark and disturbing . Still , this was indeed a good film , there really were not that many complaints I had about it , other than it's length I felt could have been a little shorter . It basically is just about these characters who all have something horrible going on in their lives . But as it turns out when you figure it all out , they all kind of revolve around one another . I also have to admit , we have some terrific performances , such as : Tom Cruise , Phillip Seymour Hoffman , and the little boy who plays the child protegdy . A few weird elements , but an extremely gripping story , I can see where people really enjoyed this film and made it into the top 250 . Not my personal favorite and not a movie I'd really watch again and again , it was just too depressing . But still , I do know a good movie when I watch it .
Unrealistically fun !	Back when I first saw the trailer for Wanted , I have to say that I was more puzzled and assumed the movie would just flop , instead I had friends who were just crazy about the movie . I also work at a movie theater , so I saw a lot of the audience walking out and going crazy over it . I had to see what all the rave was about , so my friend and I checked it out a couple days ago and this was one of the funnest action movies I have seen in a long time . One of the things I loved about this movie was despite how unrealistic it was , that was what had made it so much fun , we need a good action movie that you can just let go of reality and just enter this world where you can kick butt while doing the most incredible stunts . Now I'll admit I have never read the comics , this also seemed like the newer fight club , but I think this is one of the funnest movies I have seen this summer . Wesley Gibson has a crummy life : dead end job , a girlfriend who cheats on him with his best friend , and a father he never knew . But all that changes when he meets the girl of a life time , Fox . He meets Fox in a store and not only does she tell him that his father was an assassin who just was murdered , but she has a major shoot out with a man who is the killer of his dad . She takes Wesley to a factory where the assassins maned The Fraternity . Sloan , who is the leader , trains Wesley to be a top assassin and to kill his father's murderer . But at least that's what Wesley is led to believe into a shocking ending . I think Wanted does deliver all it promises , I know there are a lot of people who are upset that supposedly that this isn't faithful to the comic series , but I think that some just need to let go , because no matter what , you have to admit that this was just a wild ride . I'm not a huge fan of Angelina Jolie's , but dang , this girl just rocked and was so hard core , I wanted to be Fox . Morgan Freeman made such a great Sloan , he has a great skill of being a leader and someone that everyone admires ; I also loved his line " Kill this . . . " well , it's a bad word that I can't say , you'll have to see the movie to know what I am talking about . But Wanted is worth your money and time , it's a fun action film that will leave you wanting more .
A new children's classic for years to come	When I saw the trailer for The Spiderwick Chronicles , it looked a little scary for a children's movie , or at least for the family . But when I was working and I saw people leaving the theater , they were just excited and said it was scary , but it was a fun story . I finally saw The Spiderwick Chronicles on Sunday and I really liked it . I haven't read the novel , but to be honest because of this movie , I'm a little more interested , because this was a very fun fantasy story . But the movie itself was wonderful and the special effects were incredible , I couldn't believe how beautiful they made the creatures look . The story was charming and such a fun fairy tale that took me back to when I was a kid and just imagined myself in these stories , like Jumanaji or The Goonies , I think that's what The Spiderwick Chronicles will do for the new generation of children . Jared , Simon , and Mallory are moving into a new town and house with their divorced mom , Helen . Jared is having a hard time and wants to be back with his dad , but he gets distracted from these thoughts when he finds a book in the attic , a book written by his great great uncle , about the creatures he has found throughout the years , the relationship he also developed with them and how secretive it is . But a creature , an evil thing , Mulgarath , wishes to have the book and destroy all the creatures . Mulgarath will do anything to get this book , even sends his army of evil goblins to the protected house and Jared , Simon , and Mallory have to figure a way to protect the creatures . The Spiderwick Chronicles is a wonderful fairy tale that will charm it's way into your heart . Freddie Highmore is becoming quite the little actor , taking on two roles , opposite personalities , his talents are glowing in The Spiderwick Chronicles . Even though I'm still debating on how some things may not be totally suitable for children , I think it's still a great family film . The effects are magical and just beautiful , the story is very touching and I very much recommend this film , it's a good one .
A cute movie that's under rated	I remember as a kid , I was in love with this film . I mean I was really in love with it . It was such a great movie for kids to watch . And when I see it now , it's still a fun movie to watch . It unfortunately has been over runned by sequels . And musical sequels ? I don't think so . But I was surprised that it only has a rating of 6 . 3 . I thought it would've had at least a 7 . 1 . But I would highly recommend this film . It is very wonderful for the kids to watch . And I think the grown up's can get into it as well . I should probably buy the DVD now . I think I wore out the VHS when I was younger . ; P
Great action for the summer !	The long awaited sequel for Die Hard finally came this summer ! Live Free or Die Hard could have been a disaster considering that it's been 12 years since Die Hard with a Vengeance or there were worries that it would be damaging to the original Die Hard . But as it turns out , Live Free or Die Hard turned out to be probably the best action movie of the year ! Bruce Willis is now 52 years old , but not only does he not look it , he can still play John McClane like he did 20 years ago . He's still rocking these Die Hard films . It was also a different take since we are now in a different era , so it was cool to see all the updated features of living and being in 2007 . John is still divorced and his kids won't talk to him , it's a wonder why he's still in his job since it's all he has left in his life . But when he gets an assignment mearly to pick up a computer hacker , Matt Farrel , he and Matt get attacked in Matt's apartment . It turns out there are some terrorists that are after Matt since he's such a well known computer hacker , these terrorists are after money and to make the country their's . But I guess they didn't see the other Die Hard movies , because they should know better than to ever mess with John McClane or his daughter ! Live Free or Die Hard may have extremely unbelievable situations , but that's what makes it such a great action film ! These are some of the best action sequences I have seen in a long time , my favorite was the SUV with the female terrorist , that was so cool ! John has in no way lost his edge and I wouldn't hesitate to say that this is the best Die Hard sequel so far ! Justin Long was a great addition , he's coming quite a long way in his career . Timothy Olyphant is a great villain , but still I wouldn't compare him to Alan Rickman , he's the ultimate villain . But still , I would highly recommend this film to any one , it's a great action movie and just altogether an excellent summer blockbuster .
Sometimes there's only one thing left to say : Great Movie !	When I first saw the trailer for P . S . I Love You , I was so thrown off and knew that I did not want to see this movie , it looked so typical and like it was an over blown chick flick . But I heard some great things about the film and decided to just wait for the rental , I got it on Tuesday and watched it today , I have to say that I am so glad I gave this movie a chance , it was such a pleasure to watch . It had great actors and a very touching story , something that really hasn't been done before . What happens when you have to start your life all over again without the love of your life ? How scary is it ? I think the reason I love this film is that everyone could relate to it , wither you've been : widowed , divorced , left by a relative or friend , or had a bad break up , this movie expresses all the emotions and hard times that you'll go through , but to remember that it's OK to live again . Holly had a wonderful husband , Gerry , even though they fought quite a bit , he was the one love of her life , and due to a brain tumor , he was taken so quickly from her . At the young age of 30 , she has to rediscover what it is to go on without him , but to her surprise , she receives letters from Gerry that he wrote to her before he passed away . Leading her to have the courage and strength to do what she didn't think she could do before , and most of all love and live again . Hilary Swank and Gerald Butler have this dead on chemistry that makes the film work so well . Gerry's letters to Holly were so touching , I usually hate the sappy stuff , but this was just a sweet movie that will touch anyone's heart and also make them laugh at the same time . Kathy Bate's speech at the end with Hilary Swank was so true about how hard it is after being alone and having to learn to live again , it's a strange feeling , it's almost like learning to breathe again . P . S . I Love You is a great movie , I do recommend it , it's just a decent movie that is more than worth your time , it doesn't over kill on anything , just makes you feel good .
One of the better action flicks of the 80's	Despite how predictable and unrealistic 48 Hrs . was , I ended up loving it ! I wanted to get the famous movies of Eddie Murphy into my movie comment collection . But also on my own , I wanted to see Beverly Hills Cop and 48 Hrs . , because Eddie Murphy always makes me laugh in one way or another . He's done it again with his classic cop movie , 48 Hrs . , and there is no doubt that he stole the show . 48 Hrs . is about two killers on the loose who are after some payback money , Nick Nolte wants to catch them to get a boost at work . So , he gets Eddie Murphy , a convict from prison , to help him catch these guys . But while Nick is a gun happy cop , Eddie is a street smart sass , you get where I'm going if you've seen these buddy cop movies . You know the saying , you see one of those films , you've seen them all . Thank God there isn't a sequel , I'm just saying that sometimes these movies get out of hand . But I loved 48 Hrs . , it was hilarious and Nick and Eddie had great chemistry that will remain eternally classic . I loved Eddie's signature laugh in the film . He's just great and my opinion , can do no wrong .
Alicia , you rock !	A lot of people ask why " Clueless " was so popular or how people could enjoy this , for me I think because you can tell that the cast had so much fun doing this film ! They made such a memorable team and a must see movie from the 90's . This movie could have everything you could possibly want : shopping , clothes , catchy lines , sex , and teens ! OK , I'm kidding , but " Clueless " is such a fun film . Alicia Silverstone in her best movie role as Cher Horweitz . A rich and extremely popular teenage girl who has it all . She has friends , money , a car , a line of admirers , setting two teachers up to fall madly in love with each other , good grades , an awesome best friend ( D ) , and a crazy but loving father who would do anything for her . She has the world at her fingertips , but when her college step brother tells her that she should do something more in her life and calls her selfish , she finds a very young Britney Murphy or her role as Tai Frasier and wants to make her into her own clan of clueless friends . But when Tai gets out of hand and becomes the most popular girl in school , Cher starts to loose it and discovers herself that she is clueless . The reason why Cher is so lovable though is because she wasn't your typical stereo type of a teen , she had friends of a different race , background , click , and homosexuals . She's just so cute and lovable as a person , how could you not love her ? This movie has every memorable quote you could imagine from " As If ! " to " Whatever ! " , yes , this is Valley . But it's just a lot of fun movie that everyone would love and enjoy . This is a must see movie if you want the best flicks from the 90's !
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets	OK , I just finished The Chamber of Secrets , whoo ! That was a long movie ! But I can understand , these are long books , these movies have a lot to fit into . But I have to say that actually I think I enjoyed Chamber of Secrets a little more than The Sorcerer's Stone . It had more humor and a lot more chilling action sequences . The Chamber of Secrets is a great continue of the sequels to come I'm sure . I loved the new characters , Professor Gilderoy Lockhart was my favorite , but I'm a huge fan of Kenneth's , so I think I just am a soft touch for him . Harry is about to start a new year at Hogwarts , looking forward to seeing his friends again , Ron and Hermione , getting back into the spells . But he is warned by Dobby , a house elf that there is danger ahead . As it turns out he's right , there is a creature that is after the " mudbloods " , wizards who were not born from magic , had normal parents . Also there is Tom Riddle who wants to make sure that his memory will live forever and Voldebolt's as well . The Chamber of Secrets was great for me . I thought it had great characters , great magical effects , and is brilliantly made . I have to say that I'm more impressed and am very glad I'm giving these movies a chance since we have like 12 more coming up , lol . Although the kid , Malfroy is a bit annoying , I'm looking forward to The Prisoner of Azkaban , it has an even better rating , so please IMDb users , don't let me down , I hope you're right .
See ? Even the most machoest , toughest , roughest men in the world just need a hug ! :	I'm not sure why , I mean , bad acting , senseless violence , not much of a plot , but I loved this film . I have been interested in seeing the big macho films of Stallone and Schwartzenegger for a while . I'm just your average girl who loves the action flicks a little better than the chick flicks . In the 80's an extreme amount of action flicks came out : Die Hard , The Terminator , First Blood , Commando , Aliens , Batman , etc . I'm not sure why , maybe the 80's were just that boring . ; - P Just kidding to those who grew up during the 80's . In essence , First Blood is a movie that replays the Vietnam War with Stallone's humorless , absurdly indestructible killing machine , JOHN RAMBO . Yes , the Rambo ! Well , we start off with evil cops who just hassle Rambo , I mean after all , we do need him to go off in some way . Rambo is haunted by some very disturbing memories from Vietnam . He escapes from prison where he is very much abused and runs to the mountains . He goes on a crazy spree of not really killing , more like scarring all the cops who did him wrong . Thanks to them , now they've got a loose and crazy killing machine who can kick some 20 men butt . I loved the ending , because they actually touched on real human emotions . I'm not saying this because I just love drama movies , but it made this one just more than an action movie . It was real and showed that even Rambo can cry . For an action flick , everyone , this is it . I'd also recommend Die Hard or The Terminator . 80's , what a decade , huh ?
Ah . . . sisters trying to kill each other . Those were the days .	Or do other people not try to kill their sister ? ; P Just kidding ! " What Ever Happened to Baby Jane ? " is a classic . And there is a remarkable and horrifying performance from Bette Davis . I remember as a kid getting nightmares from the film actually . My sister would always immatate Baby Jane . Just to torment me . You see what I mean by my opening line ? I would highly recommend this movie if you enjoy thrillers . I have to say whatever happened to movies like this ? They were awesome . I would also recommend the original " Psycho " and " Haunting " with this film . It's an awesome film . And if you're a Bette Davis fan , all the better .
Woody is back and makes an enjoyable movie !	At my movie theater that I work at for some odd reason we got Vicky Cristina Barcelona 2 weeks after it's release , strange , but I don't know how these things work . But people were walking out very pleased with the movie . So I decided to go ahead and check it out , so I watched it this afternoon . Now we all have to admit , Woody has just been out of his game these past few decades , not since Annie Hall has he had a very memorable film . Nor have none of them have that creative edge that Woody has , but he still has something because Vicky Cristina Barcelona is a good movie . It has a strong story and was very different than any film we have had this year . We have a narrator throughout the film that just tells us the story as if he was reading a book . We have a strong cast that they can all hold their own on scree : Scarlett Johansson , Javier Bardem , and Penelope Cruz . They hold a strong chemistry and make the story very interesting . Vicky and Cristina are best friends who are going to Barcelona for the summer , Vicky is a believer of realistic love and is engaged to a successful man who can make her ideal marriage dream work . Cristina is the idealist of a romantic love and meets a Spanish handsome charmer , Juan Antonio who invites the girls to another city for a weekend . He gets Cristina's notice automatically , but Vicky takes some seducing to get into bed . But Juan's crazy ex wife gets back into his life and just makes things very interesting for Cristina . Vicky starts to question her ideals on love when she is just swept off her feet with Juan . Vicky Cristina Barcelona is a very well told story and nothing like I've seen before . Even though I found it to be unrealistic at times , this movie was just different , which we all need and Woody has a talent for showing that , as he has shown us with his private life , lol . But the acting is good and there are some funny moments and some touching one's as well . I loved how crazy Penelope was in this movie , she was like Fatal Attraction scary , yet you could see how Javier's character fell for her so hard , I don't blame him , I found her craziness attractive as well . So I do recommend this movie if you have the opportunity to see it , the characters are cool and the story is wonderful , Woody is back and throws in one last punch in the fight for his career .
Over all , I think it lived up to it's hype	I don't know if we could live in this world right now if you have not seen Shrek . I wasn't sure if I'd make it , because at the time that Shrek came out , I refused to see it . I wasn't into the computer animation , so I refused to see it , not to mention all the hype annoyed me . You know when a movie is over advertised , and sometimes that drives you more away than closer ? That was my situation , but I'm glad I finally decided to give Shrek a chance . Shrek is an ogre who is feared by all the town people and prefers living his life solo , but when a annoying talking Donkey drops into his life , Donkey just kinda puts himself into Shrek's life . But when a circus drops onto Shrek's swampy home , he goes to the king , the king promises him his home back if he can go get Princess Fiona , his future bride . Shrek and Donkey do so , but Shrek ends up falling for the beautiful princess , but she has some hidden secrets of her own that just might help their love for each other . I'd have to say that I really did enjoy Shrek , it was a very sweet story with some funny jokes and terrific animation . I loved the homages to certain pop culture moments , like the Matrix , as much as it's over used joke wise , it really worked for the film and for kids who were a little too young when the Matrix came out . It's a great family film and I'd recommend it very much .
K-Pax for kids , but it's all good	I rented Martian Child a while ago and watched it , I really liked this movie . It was so charming and the big feel good movie of 2007 , I've almost forgotten the real feeling of being so happy at the end of a film , most films of today don't touch it because it became cliché ' for a while . But Martian Child brings together a brilliant cast with a very lovely story . John Cusack has been doing a lot of smaller films that don't bring much box office for the past few years , but his talent is as strong as ever and brings in a terrific and touching performance as an alien's foster parent on Earth . Bobby Coleman , I have never seen him in a film before , but his presence on screen was incredible . Most child actors can come off as either too cute or very obnoxious , Bobby was the perfect choice for Dennis . Bobby and John's chemistry made the story one of the most touching of 2007 . Dennis is a little boy who claims to be from Mars , he lives in a box most of the time because he says the sun ray's hurt him and he also wears a belt of batteries to hold him to the ground . A lot of families have left him and he's just more excited to be going home in a while . David , a widower and a famous author , adopts Dennis and starts writing his next story about him trying to understand while Dennis does his best to convince him that he's from Mars . But while they bond and understand each other's worlds , they become not only friends , but more like father and son . Martian Child is in my opinion one of the better films to come out of 2007 , it was just very honest and put itself out there . It reminded me of other films that I have seen before , but with what I think was a better story idea . A child claiming to be from another planet was a little more believable due to the fact , he's a kid , is he doing this to be different or is he really telling the truth ? The story works on a lot of levels and the ending is a big tear jerker . I highly recommend Martian Child , it's a beautiful film and is a new favorite of mine .
Unique and interesting	8 is one of the most hailed movies of all time , especially in foreign films , I read in a magazine that this was the number one ranked Italian film . So I decided to rent it and see what it was about , I had no idea what the story was about , but if it's ranked so high on the top 250 , why not check it out ? So I watched it yesterday and this was one of the strangest movies I have ever seen , I almost felt like I was trippin ' with this movie . I know that sounds bad , but I just felt like I was on such a trip with 8 , the camera shots , the characters , the costumes , the story , it was just crazy . I felt like I was getting pulled in so many directions and I wasn't sure where I was going . The story is a little hard to follow , but I watched it again , and from what I understand , I'll try to explain . Guido is a writer / director who is constantly looking for new ideas for his new film . He goes into these strange fantasies of new characters , flying , new situations , and different colors or looks . But the actors that he works with are always looking for the bigger idea , they want something better . But after thinking back to his past , he may just come up with the best idea for a film . At least that's what I interpreted from 8 , this was seriously one strange movie . But the thing that stands out to me is this was a film that stood out very much for it's time , it was one of the first films that made people stop and seriously think about what they saw . It was one of the first major artistic films that had incredible camera shots and interesting characters , before the fancy effects of CGI , we had 8 . 8 is a good movie , it's something you'd really have to be in a mood for though and you may have to watch it a couple times , but it's definitely worth it if you want a classic .
A guilty pleasure that I'm sure will become your's as well when you see it	I heard a little bit about Hairspray , kinda like maybe it was an underground classic , some have heard of it , some haven't , but I just watched it over the weekend to find to surprise that it was directed by John Waters and starred Divine , I just recently viewed . . . sigh . . . Pink Flamingos , so I had no idea as to what to expect from this movie . But I'd have to say it was a real pleasure to watch , as silly of a story as it was , it worked . In today's world , big girls are not really as well excepted , Ricki Lake took on that role as Tracy and made it OK to be big and beautiful . She plays Tracy Turnbird , a plump teenage girl who is a huge fan of a dance show called the Corny Collins show , she and her friend go onto the show and Tracy quickly jumps in to become one of the favorite dancers , in fact even more popular than her thinner rivals . But Tracy wins everyone's heart including her family and the love of the public as she goes to prove that big girls don't cry . . . that and you can never have hair that doesn't stand up high enough . . . you'll get that when you see the movie . Hairspray is a good movie , it had decent acting and a cute story that I'm sure that anyone could enjoy . So please do give it a look , I'm sure I'll see it again down the road , I told my friends about it and they are actually interested in seeing it , so goes to show you that the film might be still remembered for a few more decades to come , especially since it's being remade I just noticed , oi , Hollywood , can't you come up with something original ?
Cute and fun for the whole family !	I saw this movie a little over a week ago and I thought it was a pretty cute Disney film about the future of tomorrow . Meet the Robbinsons is one of those animated films where it has humor for the adults and the kids that works well and really clicked , not to mention the animation looked fantastic . While it's still not the best animated film this year , I would agree that it's in the top and wouldn't be surprised if it does get an Oscar nod for best animated film . It really was that good , I was kinda surprised by the average rating on IMDb , I thought the users would get a kick out of this film , but you can't win them all . Lewis is a young genius who has been adopted and cared for by a wonderful family , but he desperately wants to know who his real mother is and find out where she is , so he can find out if she really did want to give him up . But that is put on hold when he makes a brilliant invention , and someone is after it , but he is quickly saved by another boy , Wilber , and he is taken to the future where his invention has been put to great use . But since Wilber wasn't supposed to take Lewis to the future , he lies to his family that Lewis is a friend visiting , but Lewis discovers how wonderful it is to be with this family and wishes to stay . But he may have certain problems when the Bowler Hat Guy desperately wants to get his hands on his invention to get all the credit and money . Meet the Robbinsons is a definite recommendation that I'm sure you'll get a good kick out of . It has great humor , a fun story , and fantastic animation , it's a blast for the whole family , or even for an afternoon with the friends . 2007 over all has been a pretty good start for films , let's hope the great animated flicks keep coming !
I don't know whether I loved or hated this film	I was caught in the middle of this . I just didn't know what to say . But " Quills " is a wonderful film . It was brilliantly made , and the acting was great . I will not doubt that this film was made very well . SPOILERSGeffory Rush's character is a mad author in an insane asylum . He writes very naughty stories . But a certain nurse maid , Kate Winslet , is intrigued with them . The stories get out . Of course they are burned at once for it's content . But things get more out of hand when Geffory writes a story about the doctor of the asylum and his young wife . Geffory is stripped of everything he can write with . But he refuses to stop there . I don't want to give away all . You'll just have to see for yourself .
A rock and roll good time of teen movies	I remember watching some of this when I was like 11 years old , a year after it came out . A friend of mine was just in love with this movie , but I didn't really watch much of it . I just couldn't relate or didn't get it . When I made my wonderful journey to Blockbuster Video , I noticed it again , and was just curious to see it . Renee Zelleweger , Liv Tyler , Robin Tunney ? Wow . I'm glad I watched this movie , because I can relate to it more now . My work , lucky enough , is a lot like this movie . We're all close friends and have fun . But I'd like to work at Empire Records , they can actually dance in the store ! : D The acting was fun and enjoyable and the story is a hoot . I would recommend Empire records for a watch . Just have fun with it . This was the time where there were some actual good teen movies . You also get the early glimpses of Rene and Liv . They actually look good in this movie ! : D No offense to them . They just look weird now .
A classic that shouldn't be missed	I've loved this film since I was a kid . And actually , these are the type of movies I enjoy watching . There are no computer effects , or lousy acting . It's a masterpiece of it's own kind . Tony Curtis and Janet Leigh are an amazing romantic lead . Well , I guess it helped that they in real life were falling for each other . The sets , the costumes , and the story are wonderful . I do think the rating is a little low . But I can understand some people not liking the film . It takes a little to get used to it . Because the plot is kind of tedious . And there is a lot of talking . But just give it a chance .
The first and best frat boy movie ever !	Anyone can get into this film . Come on , you can admit to one laughter coming out of your mouth . John Belushi can just make you die of laughter , because he is so funny . " Animal House " is your basic comedy that works very well . It also has a very promising cast . You have Donald Sutherland , John Belushi , Tom Hulce , Kevin Bacon , Karen Allen , and Tim Matheson . John Landis also has a line of movies that were all very excellent . So , you get what you are promised . You are just going to have to trust me when I say that this is a timeless comedy . It gets funnier every time that you see it . RIP John , you were a master at your work . We all miss you !
Dracula : Dead and I'm loving it !	Mel Brooks , one of my favorite directors of all time , he's delivered some of the most memorable comedies : Young Frankenstein , Spaceballs , The Producers , High Anxiety , Blazing Saddles , Robin Hood : Men in Tights . He now brings us Dracula : Dead and Loving it , one of my favorite guilty pleasures . I know there is a bit of hate for this movie because a lot of people say that Mel lost his touch and this isn't as funny as his older films . Let's face it , Mel peeked pretty early in his career with Young Frankenstein , which is one of my favorite films of all time , but everyone is naturally going to compare every film that he made at that point with his greatest movies . But if you seriously are telling me that there was not one scene that you didn't laugh at then you need your funny bone checked . The year is 1893 , solicitor Thomas Renfield travels all the way from London to Transylvania to meet an important client . As he nears the end of his journey , the sun sets , and the stagecoach driver refuses to take him any further . Kindly villagers plead with him to turn back , but Renfield explains that he is expected . Renfield arrives safely and meets Count Dracula , a charming but rather strange man who is , of course , a vampire . Dracula signs the papers finalizing the purchase of Carfax Abbey in England , and Renfield retires for the night . He wakes up when two Brides of Dracula come gliding seductively in . Dracula then casts a hypnotic spell on the suggestible Renfield , making him his slave . Dracula and Renfield soon embark for England . He goes ashore , leaving Renfield behind . When Renfield is discovered alone on the ship , he is confined to a lunatic asylum . Dracula introduces himself to his new neighbors : Doctor Seward , owner of the asylum where Renfield is being held , and a believer in enemas as a sovereign remedy for mental illness ; Seward's assistant , Jonathan Harker ; Seward's beautiful daughter Mina ; and Seward's ward , the equally pretty Lucy . Dracula flirts with Lucy and , later that night , he feeds on her blood . The next day , Mina discovers Lucy still in bed late in the morning , looking strangely pale . Seward , puzzled by the odd puncture marks on her throat , calls in an expert on obscure diseases , Dr . Abraham Van Helsing . Van Helsing is convinced that Dracula is a vampire and that they must destroy him before he gets to Mina next . Dracula : Dead and Loving It may be a bit silly at times , but seriously , you can't help but laugh . It's certainly a lot better then most spoof movies today . How could you not love Leslie Nielson as Dracula ? He was so hilarious , but who truly stole the show ? Peter MacNicol as Reinfield , I can't tell you how hard he made me laugh , if one laugh supposedly makes you loose 3 calories , I think I lost 15 , 000 calories with just his scenes . Reinfield being seduced by Dracula's brides , him trying to save Dracula's coffin on the ship from hitting the walls back and forth , him sneaking under Lucy's bed sheets to peak at her , to the ending , actually every scene with him is non stop laughs . I don't care what people think , I'm not comparing , I think this is a very funny movie and is just a blast to watch , if you don't laugh while watching this movie , you're not invited to my parties , you party pooper !
This movie rocks ! One of my favorite childhood memories !	Ah good times good times , Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles , one of my favorite cartoons as a kid and I absolutely loved the comics as well . This was such a great concept , I mean look at the title , who knew , right ? Turtles that fight crime , talk like surfers , and eat pizza , but we bought it and rooted them on ! So obviously the creators wanted to cash in on this great story and we got the live action Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles . Guess what ? It was awesome ! This is one of my favorite movies from the 90's , I'm in my 20's now for goodness ' sake and I still watch this . I can't help it , it's just such a fun movie and the great thing about this movie that despite it was made more for kids , it had a dark edge to it that it was also made for the adults as well . April O'Neil , an investigative reporter at Channel 3 Eyewitness News , is researching a story on a recent , immense crime wave in New York City . She is later rescued by the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles from a group of street thieves . As the Turtles are celebrating their victory , an ex-hockey player called Casey Jones , having become a vigilante to combat the crime wave , is shown beating two thieves with his sports equipment and arguing with Raphael over the proper way to punish criminals . The crime wave is traced by April to the Foot Clan ; the Foot Ninjas attack her and knock her unconscious , Raphael rescues he . As the Turtles escort April back to her apartment , where they remain for some hours , the Foot raid the Turtles ' lair and kidnap Splinter . They carry him back to their headquarters , where their master Shredder is forming an army of corrupted , ninja-trained teenagers to build himself an empire of crime . One of those teenagers is Danny , the son of April's boss ; having seen the Turtles at her apartment , he tells Shredder where to find them . The Foot therefore launch a surprise attack on April's apartment . Outnumbered and surprised , the turtles are finally defeated , they may have lost the battle , but it's time for war to get their Splinter back . Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles is one of those movies that just rocks because it has awesome action sequences , fun actors , and just a great story . I miss writing like this because it seems like more movies that are made with superhero's for the kids now-a-days are more cheesy . This was not made to insult anyone's intelligence , I mean , like I said before these are pizza eating vigilante fighting talking turtles yet we believed it . Not to mention that there is a talking rat , I know it's kind of a weird little puppet they created , but still he's like the Chinese Yoda that always makes a classic " funny " at just the right time . His last scene with Splinter was short , sweet , and effective . This is a movie I will show to my kids when I have a family one day and will still watch with a smile on my face .
A breath of fresh air , I'm talking movie and theater experience together	OK , so far this year , I have had the worst experiences with Hollywood films and movie theaters . First off , movies , let's face it , Hollywood has lost a lot of touches and it's magic . The originality is just gone and I was thinking with " The Hills have Eyes " as just another lousy remake my friends were dragging me too , but wow ! I must say that I was extremely impressed that the movie was entertaining and actually one of the best remakes of 2005-2006 . Theater experience , we have all admitted it , we hated going to the theaters last year . The parking and ticket prices were outrageous , not to mention pretty lousy movies didn't help either . But mainly I heard more complaints about the audience , nor do I blame either , I was majorly ticked off with the way the audience behaves now a days . But this was a better experience in the theater , people were quiet except for EXCITING moments , and had their cell phones off for the entire movie ! The audience screamed when necessary and we all clapped for the action moments towards the end of the movie . This was the best theater experiences I've had in a long time . Now , the movie was great . Having Wes apart of the team I think helped a bit because it kept the feel of the original horror movie . It had perfect scary moments , cliché's that will always get the horror fans going crazy , and a great story . I would highly recommend this movie any day ! What a great time !
Still having a good ol ' time !	I rented both Grumpy Old Men and Grumpier Old Men back to back , so I could see both instead of my normal rent one sequel at a time ordeal . I just finished Grumpier Old Men this morning and was expecting a modest sequel , but it turned into a great sequel , pretty much to the point where I enjoyed Grumpier Old Men to Grumpy Old Men . Despite the fact that they use some old jokes , this was a fun plot and I thought the guys have gotten even funnier , including John's father , he's a little dirty , but so much fun to laugh at . John and Max are now best friends again and couldn't be happier with each other , their son and daughter are about to get hitched , and they are overwhelming with the wedding plans . Max is starting to get lonely though , since Chuck has passed on , the bait shop is given to two older Italian women , one lady , Maria , starts a little feud with Max wanting to turn the bait shop into a restaurant . But their anger turns into a hidden passion and they end up falling head over heals for each other , but Maria has some hidden skeletons in her closet . Grumpier Old Men is proof that you are never too old to fall in love or have your heart broken again . It was so sweet seeing Max fall in love with Maria , I loved their passion for each other , it was so fun to watch . John's father and Maria's mother were just so awesome and funny , they had such great chemistry ! I would highly recommend Grumpier Old Men , it's a great comedy that once again touches your heart and tickles your funny bone .
Oi , e , va ! That was one heck of a movie to get through !	I really didn't think it was possible to get through Apocalypse Now , over three and a half hours ! Well , unfortunately , my sister gave me the Director's Cut to watch , so it was a bit of an ambush of a film . But still , now that I can take a breath , I can honestly say that was one of the most disturbing movies I have ever seen . Definitely one of a kind , to be honest , I didn't realize also that Marlon Brando really only has a cameo in the film , but it was so memorable that I can see why he is praised when it comes to this movie . It's about a captain played by Sheen , he is sent to Vietnam to capture and kill Captain William played by Brando . William has made himself into a God of a Vietnam tribe and you can tell by his appearance , he's been through Hell . But that's exactly what Sheen has also been through just trying to get to William , through the bloody jungles of Vietnam , he has seen the most horrific images and watch his friends / troop get killed off one by one . Truly an epic motion picture , I can see why this movie is praised . It's so incredibly haunting and disturbing , the soundtrack really does add so much . The sets are incredible but very scary to look at . Sheen and Brando are just amazing in this film , but it's great to see the " new " faces of the time , including Harrison Ford and Lawerence Fishbourne , not to mention we have Dennis Hopper and one of the most amazing directors of our time , Francis Ford Coppola . Although , I'm not sure if I could make it through this movie again , for the simple sake of my sanity , I really can't see how this movie could be anyone's favorite to be honest . It's so friggin ' depressing ! But I will never ever ever doubt what an incredibly moving and disturbing picture it was to watch . I'm going to have nightmares these next few nights !
A nice little kid's flick	I think every kid has to see this movie . It's a charming and delightful little flick . I wish they would make more movies like this than all the fancy computer effect movies of today . I'm serious , I think this is more impressive as far as animation goes . Charlotte's Web is a great flick to watch . Even though I enjoyed the book more as a child , I still loved to watch this film . I would recommend it for children . It's a little cheesy at times . But it has good lessons and morals . Hence , why I say it's for kids . There are some catchy toons though . Even the adults might still get into it .
Bill Murrey in some of his funniest moments	I loved " Scrooged " . It took a new turn and twist on a classic Christmas tale by Charles Dickens . Just think " A Christmas Carole " updated with the comedy stylings of Bill Murrey . Bill is absolutely hysterical in " Scrooged " . I just love watching him interacting with the three ghosts . Also , another great twist . The first ghost of Christmas past is a smart alleck taxi driver who takes Frank on journey through his pathetic and wasted life of just wanting and thinking too much of his career instead of his family and friends . The ghost of Christmas Present , a wonderful comedic performance by Carole , is perfect . She takes Frank on a journey of seeing how his decisions are effecting his friends and brother , and despite his poor and careless ways , he's sees just by the joy of having a family and friends around that love you , you can have the best Christmas . And of course , the ghost of Christmas Future , where Franks sees the results of his decisions and what can happen . This is probably the first and only that can make me feel so good after I see it . All the performances are great and the story is just wonderful . This is a great Christmas flick that should be watched by everyone . Just put a little love in your heart and enjoy ! Merry Christmas ! See ! It is effective !
Like chocolate cake : you know it's bad for you , but you can't help but love it	Silly metaphor , I know . The film " Dodgeball : A true underdog story " while maybe be offensive at times , the film really brings it back up to place with the humor . You really can't help but laugh at the movie a couple times . Sort of like " Zoolander " , another great flick with Ben Stiller , it's so stupid you've gotta love it . I would recommend this film for a good laugh . As of movie of the year or comedy of the year , no , this is not the film . But it was a good one to watch . A true film for any Ben Stiller fan , that's for sure . I will warn though , if you get offended easily , this maybe not the film for you .
Goodfellas meets Hollywood !	Man , I loved " Get Shorty " ! To be honest , there was no way I would've had an interest in seeing this movie if were not for my mother , because I mean , John Travolta as a hit man ? For me it didn't work . But my mom insisted that he and the rest of this brilliant cast , Renee Russo , Danny DeVito , and Gene Hackman , were just great and I should give the movie a chance . I was glad I did , the plot worked so well and this movie just kept me on my seat wanting to see the next scene . John plays Chili , a mob hit man , who is on his way to Hollywood just to catch a run away with his boss's money , but he has a better idea . Chili goes to Gene who plays Harry Zim , a B-movie director , and Chili tells him an idea for a movie of the same plot that he came here to do with the run away . Everyone thinks it's a good idea for a movie , including a B-actress Karen Flores , played by Renee , and an Oscar nominee Martin Weir played by Danny . But when Chili takes the run away's money to invest in the movie instead of coming back home with it , the mob families are not so happy and come back for the doe . " Get Shorty " is a great movie , especially if you're into the mob films . It adds some great twists and just great comedy that a great cast brought . It was great entertainment and I would recommend this for a watch . I think you'll have fun , anyone can with this movie .
Who you gonna call ? !	Ghost Busters is one of those honest classics that will forever be remembered . It's one of those old wacky comedies that anyone could love . Not to mention it's unique idea of a story , while most ghost stories are supposed to be scary , Dan Aykroyd and Harrold Rammis made this into a genuine comedy that is so much fun to watch while it still has it's spooky moments here and there . They also picked the perfect cast and great characters , they clicked so well , and I think that's what made the story work so well . Not to mention one of the funnest songs of all time was made with this film , OK , a little off the subject , I know , but I had to mention it . Peter , Egon , and Ray are three unemployed fella's when they come up with a great idea . New York is being haunted by ghosts lately and no one can come up with a plan to get rid of them , well , instead of a typical exterminators , they become the Ghost Busters ! The Ghost Busters are like the police only they know how to face these ghouls and they come up with a whole business with it . Peter's girlfriend , Dana , has a problem with her refrigerator , it has demons inside of it , not to mention the whole building is being taken over by evil forces that only the Ghost Busters can handle . Ghost Busters is a fun film that I guarantee you a few laughs with . This is a film that will be remembered for years to come . I think my favorite scene was when Louis Tully is having a party for the building and is trying so hard to get everyone to join , he was so cute . Not to mention when Dana becomes possessed and invites Peter over and how he handles the whole situation , it was just so funny . I really love this movie , I think you will too if you haven't seen it yet .
The lose of youth and innocence	" Platoon " was an incredible movie I just watched last night . To be honest , I don't think too much of what the soldiers in Iraq are going through right now . Unfortunately , one of my friends has been shipped over to Iraq and won't be back until next year . The only thing I worry about is if he'll be alright . " Platoon " showed how much a soldier can loose in a war . His sanity , health , and innocence . You see the transition of Taylor's behavior , he comes to Vietnam a little nieve and not realizing what he had just got himself into . But at the middle and towards the end , he becomes a " man " by the army's standards . William Defoe , what a terrific under rated actor ! I've just recently have been seeing more of his movies and he is just so great . His character touched my heart . Because he is one of the more experienced people in his troop . He even tells how the Americans were kicking butt in the beginning and now it's their turn to get it . When he punched Barnes when he held the gun to the little girl's head , I was hoping that he would've killed Barnes . But his character won me over . " Platoon " is a great Vietnam movie and I would recommend it . But it is very violent and graphic . Not recommended for kids under 16 . Otherwise , just enjoy .
It builds up to nothing	Finally , after the long wait to rent Kill Bill Vol . 2 , I watched it . I was so excited . I thought the first Kill Bill was great . But I was a bit disappointed . First off , a clearence to fans of Q . T . I do think that Quentin is very good at what he does as a director . But he is still like any other director . I tend to notice that every film he made , his fans act like it was the greatest movie in the world . So , to any fan reading this review , it is just my opinion . SPOILER ALERT ! ! ! The beginning is great . Great dialouge , acting , and action . There is more drama and explination than the first Kill Bill . Elle's kill is the best by far with the removale of the other eye . And the black mamba is a great touch . We finally get to Bill . The big and final show down . And we're going with it . This has been the Bride's goal since the first movie . And she just kills him within 5 seconds . It's very lame and pathetic . And her child just accepts her into her life like as if she had always been in her mother's life . Over all , it's a good movie . It just is a little disappointing .
Watch it with the lights off	I was surprised by this movie . I saw it when it first opened up , and when the audience saw the ghosts , there was a scream every minute . So , I bought the movie when it came out . And I watched it in the day time , I just couldn't wait to be scared again . But there was one problem , I wasn't scared . So my friends called me and found out I bought it , and I have a big DVD system with stereo sound . I said that it's not that effective any more . But they insisted . So , we turned off the lights , cranked the sound up to the max . And we were terrified . So , if you wanna be scared , turn off the lights and turn up the sound . And it'll work .
If chocolate is considered to be evil . . . then . . . oh , boy	I need some churching . " Chocolat " is a cute little town film . All about a woman who newly arrives into town and makes chocolate . When she turns down an invitation to church , everyone thinks bad things about her . They even consider her chocolate to be evil because it tastes so good . She befriends most of the townspeople . Excluding a few who don't like her at all . She even befriends the " rats " who sail in once a year . She happens to fall for one of them . But she is still pressured to leave due to her delicious chocolate . The film is well done . The story is alright . But the acting takes it all . I would recommend especially for Johnny lovers .
Definitely one of the most interesting films of 2006	My friend saw this movie in the theater and just wouldn't be quiet about how awesome it was . Then I had another friend who saw it who also and said it was a great film , well , I couldn't wait when I found out that it was out for rental . I didn't hesitate when I saw it and I watched it this morning and I have to say that this film definitely kept me going , it was so scary to see how much of a possible future we have . It was so realistic and just scary to think of how fast we turn on each other . Not to mention how we take for granted the sound of a child or a baby's cry , we complain about it all the time , did you ever wonder what the world would be like without that sound ? The year is 2027 , a world where there are no young people . In fact , the youngest person was 18 years old and was murdered , there are no children , and it's not possible for a woman to get pregnant . But when Theo gets back in touch with his wife , she begs him to help a woman who got pregnant somehow . He must help her in this savage world and time where she will be killed for being an illegal immigrant . The task gets harder and harder when there is a group of terrorists after them , not to mention the government . Children of Men is a truly horrific movie that everyone in my opinion needs to see . I don't know why it got to me so bad , but that I think this future may be a strong possibility . The film in itself was very brilliant and makes you think . The casting couldn't have been more perfect . Clive Ownen was just amazing and embraced his role as Theo and was such a lovable character , you just rooted for him and the girl to make it all the way . This is a sad movie , but definitely a must see .
It's them ! Giant killer ants !	Ah , my next on list of big 50's sci fi films , Them ! This is a film that my parents were crazy about it and always wanted me to watch this classic . But of course when you're a kid , naturally you don't find many black and white films that appealing . I always thought this was going to be a lame film , but like I said , I'm on a goal to see the big sci fi films of the 1950's and I'm glad that I finally gave this fine film a chance . Them actually scared me , as cheesy as the effects were , if you watch this film in the dark , it has creepy elements to it . Not to mention , it was cool to see a younger Lenord Nemoy on screen , to think that he was a struggling actor too who has a very small part in this film . Them has a great story and is one of the best scary bug films you'll ever see . After several people in the New Mexico desert wind up missing or dead , including an F . B . I . agent and most of his family , police Sgt . Ben Peterson teams up with F . B . I . agent Bob Graham to find out what's causing the strange occurrences . They find send a strange print found at one of the crime scenes and it is sent to the Department of Agriculture . Doctor Harold Medford and his daughter Doctor Patricia Medford arrive and ask to be taken to the scene of some of the disappearances . When they get there they are shocked to find gigantic ants , whose mutations were caused by the first atomic bomb explosion nine years earlier . They manage to destroy the nest of ants , but not before two winged queen ants and a couple of drones have hatched and escaped the nest . Now it is a race against time to find the two queen ants before they can establish more nests and hatch more queens . I believe that Them is a film to be watched by any film lover , this is a true classic in it's own right . I'm really falling in love with these old sci-fi films , the story , the effects , the history , the actors , they're a lot of fun to watch . Them is now in my top fav's , the scariest scene was without a doubt when you see those little boys trapped in the cave with the queen ants , I couldn't imagine the fear they were experiencing . This was a very fun film to watch and I'm looking forward to my next sci fi film , but Them is going to be tough to beat on the scares .
Dedicated to the great George M . Cohan	Ever remember those songs that we've sung every 4th of July ? Like Yankee Doodle Dandy ? Not to mention those plays we always had to do in elementary school when learning about the Declaration of Independence or The Constitution ? Well , Yankee Doodle Dandy is one of the first biographies about George Michael Cohan . It's a fine picture with great music and terrific actors , including James Cagney . George was named after George Washington , our first American President , because he was born on the 4th of July . His whole family were a singing group , very popular at that as well . But as George grows up , he is cast out by the very person that got his family started in theater . So , he partners up with Sam Harris and makes his own successful musical called " Yankee Doodle Dandy " , along with meeting a very beautiful woman named Mary and makes her his wife . This is such a cheerful and lovely movie that can be seen for the whole family . It's a true classic with beautiful music , lovely acting , and just a great picture . I really enjoyed Yankee Doodle Dandy , and anyone else who enjoys the classics .
A movie that will make even the most macho man cry	I have to say that this is Tom and Dustin's best performances by far . They are such a wonderful duo together . I love seeing how Tom reacts to Dustin's character . Two brothers , one being successful and the other mentally challenged , are finally reunited . They both learn how to live with each other and eventually learn to love each other . As for a best picture , I wasn't too sure . But the actors will impress you . I would recommend this movie to anyone . It has wonderful characters and some great laughs . But also some very touching moments . You really have to like this movie . It's too memorable to miss .
A fun and great ending to an awesome action series !	Finally , I have seen all Lethal Weapon movies . I have to say that I really enjoyed them . Honestly , now it's a tie between 1 and 4 on which Lethal Weapon movie was the best . This had great action sequences and originality that most buddy / cop movies don't have have any more . Now , this will be my last and final complaint about the rule of having 10 or more lines according to IMDb . It's a tradition when it comes to the Lethal Weapon movies . : D Anyways , people , when there are just basic movies that have a simple plot and don't need to be analyzed like some crazy critics on here that go on and on for 5 pages , I feel that it is unfair when I just want to see if a movie is good or not . I mean , don't you wish it was just like " See it ! " or " This movie is bad , don't see it ! " . Just that simple ! : D - It's been a pleasure , folks !
Gets me on the floor laughing after all this time !	Zorro , the Gay Blade is a classic comedy with George Hamilton who can get even the grumpiest man laughing on the floor . He plays twins who were separated , on is a smooth Spanish womanizer who comes across his father's cape and becomes Zorro . But when a bad accident happens at a party causing him to break his leg , he must now ask his flamboyant brother to take on the role of a more colorful and happier Zorro . With some brilliant and zangy jokes , if you enjoyed Zorro , the Gay Blade , I'd highly recommend Love at First Bite . It has the same humor and the wonderfully talented George . He and the cast are just great together in this all time classic , Zorro , the Gay Blade .
Proof that you don't need fancy effects to send chills down your spine	The Haunting is a masterpiece of horror cinema , it's one of those ghost stories that go on forever because of it's originality and taste . My sister is absolutely in love with this movie , I hadn't seen it in a while , so her and I watched it together the other day and I have to say that surprisingly it still sends chills down my spine when I watch it . The remake was just horrible , it was over done and in some ways just plain annoying . But that's why I would recommend sticking to the original , the classic just never dies . Hill House hasn't exactly had a clean history of former owners , murders and suicides , people screaming to get out , no one wishes to stay there , but for Dr . Markway , he would like to see what it's about . He invites 3 individuals who all have had some sort of supernatural experiences : Theo , Luke , and Elenore . They all together must find a way to survive a night in Hill House when things start going horribly wrong and attack Elenore . The Haunting is a great horror story that has true originality and is perfectly made , I don't see how this movie could have been made better . I give such credit to Robert Wise since this movie is still talked about to this day . If you want a true horror masterpiece , I would definitely recommend this movie to you , watch it in the dark , you'll get the true effect of the movie . Not to mention a good scare .
A fun and adventure filled film fit for the whole family !	I just used to love " Jumanji " as a kid . This was what was Oscar worthy to me , because I loved the special effects and Robin Williams . Even though I think I over did it with the Oscar worthy thoughts , still to this day I enjoy " Jumanji " . It's a great family film that will make you feel good and have fun with . Robin Williams plays Alan , a boy who when he was little and had a horrible fight with his father plays a game with his friend , Sarah , and the game happens to be cursed causing Alan to get sucked into the game until someone else plays it . Sarah freaking out by just what happened runs home and no one believes her leaving Alan behind for decades in the game . When a new family moves in , Judy and Peter and their Aunt Nora , they find the game and start playing and release Alan who has just survived decades in a jungle . When they realize that they must finish the game to make the horrible curses it brings go away , they find Sarah who is now the town loony , and must play it ' til they finish . But can they do that with all the spiders , elephants , lions , tsunami , vines , stampedes , and an angry hunter ? You'll just have to wait and see . This is a great movie for the family and I'd highly recommend it for a good watch . It's just a fun fill adventure with great effects and some fun performances by Robin and Bonnie and a very young Kirsten Dunst . So sit back , grab the popcorn , and enjoy " Jumanji " !
Just a great time ! I can't remember the last time I laughed so hard .	I always did love watching " Scary Movie " , I'm not really sure why . I think when I just need a good laugh and a movie that doesn't require brains , I love to watch parodies . " Scary Movie " captured that very well with " Scream " , " I know what you did last Summer " , " The Sixth Sense " , " Scream 2 " , etc . You are guaranteed to have some really great laughs with " Scary Movie " . The cast , you can tell , they had so much fun making this movie and it shows . I just loved the scene where they had hit the man on the road making fun of " I know what you did last summer " , and Elizabeth Berkley can't find the body but she sees a bloody boot like Jennifer Love Hewitt did in that scene , but instead says " Oh , my God ! We hit a boot ! " . I know that sounds stupid , but it gave me such a good laugh . It has an amusing ending of making fun of The Usually Suspects with Doofy . No , this movie is not for everyone . It does have very crude and sexual humor , but like I said , sometimes when you just wanna let go and have fun , you just can make any movie into a good one . Except for Pooty Tang . : D But I'd recommend this for a good laugh and for a fun time with your friends .
" We do love a challenge ! "	Resident Evil : Extinction is now the third installation in the series and so far it's the best ! I saw this in the theater last night and I can't tell you when the last time was that I was genuinely excited to see scene after scene . I think Resident Evil : Extinction is my favorite in the series so far , it had great action , horrifying scares , and an actual story that could send chills down your spine . Milla is still kicking butt and she is so awesome in this film , not to mention that her telekinetic powers are growing stronger , so she's becoming a much more advanced fighter against the living dead . Resident Evil : Extinction is everything you could hope for : action , horror , a little romance , science fiction , and drama . The story was terrific because who knows how far we are from screwing up and possibly destroying the world ? Scary to think about it . Basically the entire world is now a desert , most of the world's population is dead from the virus that is making them into the living dead . Most of the survivors are using the roads for survival and trying to kill as many of these zombies as they can while looking for food , water , and a safe place to live . Alice comes across a group and stays with them to help them out and she's back with Carlos once again . While it seems they are in the clear and safe , it turns out that Alice is being watched by Umbrella and they want her blood to create super zombies with incredible strength . They've been cloning her to see if they can get some close enough to her capability , but when Alice finds out about this , they may wanna rethink their plan . The only thing I regret about getting into the Resident Evil films is now I have to wait for the next sequel ! LOL , it's just like a TV series , you can't wait until the next episode because the previous one had such a great ending . Oh , well , I knew what I was getting into . Resident Evil : Extinction is one heck of an awesome film and I highly recommend that you go see it , especially if you've seen the previous two films . The cast looked like they had the ultimate blast making this film and it's a cool looking film that will keep you entertained from beginning to end .
Joe Pesci is in it , what more could a movie fan want ? ! :	I'm on the quest of watching all the Lethal Weapon films . So far , I am becoming a fan of them . If you've ever watched " Mad TV " , you know there was a spoof on Lethal Weapon where they portray Riggs and Mortouh and are absolutely hysterical ! So , I was more than interested in seeing Lethal Weapon 3 after a great sequel and Joe Pesci ! I know in my last two Lethal Weapon reviews were mostly complaining about the stupid " must have 10 lines " rule on IMDb . Which you have to admit , you might agree . Isn't it silly how we have to say how much we loved or hated these movies and why ? Why can't we say , " I loved it , watch it ! " ? And I don't care , I mean , why did they add " Was this comment useful to you ? " . I think most of these people on IMDb are either lover's or haters ! And like I always say " Don't hate ; appreciate ! " or " Go drink a bottle of Haterade " . : D OK , I'm so lame . This is a great movie , watch it ! It's a lot of fun .
A fun " twist " on the classic Oliver story	I know it sounds weird because this movie was made when I was a child , you'd think I would've seen it at an earlier age . But I never did and my friend had the movie , I was curious and wondering why I never had the chance to see it . But I'm glad that I just got to see this movie , it was so much fun and I just missed the old time animation . It had great music by the awesome Billy Joel and the animals were just so adorable . Basically , Oliver is an orphan kitten the big city of New York and meets a smooth street smart dog , Dodger . When Oliver follows Dodger to his layer of other dogs who are led by a homeless man , Fagin , they decide to keep Oliver . But when Oliver is learning the street smarts , a little girl sees him and takes him home where he gets a nice loving place to stay , not to mention extremely wealthy . But the guys want him back and kidnap him to pay back the mean Mr . Sykes . I thought this was a great introduction of Charles Dicken's immortal classic for the kids . Not to mention that it was clever and witty , the music is memorable and there are some very funny moments that both kids and adults could get a kick out of . Believe me , this movie is good fun , but I'm still trying to find out why I didn't see it sooner .
One of my new favorite Disney sequels	The only sequel that really stood out to me that was up to the same level as the first was the Lion King sequels . Now , I've seen some good Disney sequels , but normally they're not that much fun . But I just watched 101 Dalmatians II : Patch's London Adventure , and I have to say that I had so much fun watching this movie . It was cute , fun , and just a pleasure to watch . I know the story is kind of lame , but I thought it was almost right up there with the original 101 Dalmations film . I loved watching Thunderbolt , Patch's hero , try to save the day and he ends up ruining it , but he just thinks he's doing a good job . It's a typical story , but this wonderful Disney movie makes it work . In a huge family of 101 dalmations , Patch is looking to stand out amongst his 99 brothers and sisters . The family moves to a farm , but accidentally leaves Patch behind , Patch goes to London to meet his favorite TV hero dog , Thunderbolt . When Thunderbolt's jealous sidekick , Lightening , tells him a lie saying that Thunderbolt is getting killed off the show , he freaks out and wants to save the day to get his press back , and with the help of Patch who knows every episode of his show on what he should do , he takes advantage . But Cruella DeVille is back and is helping a starving artist find his inspiration with the puppies she wants back so badly . 101 Dalmatians II : Patch's London Adventure is seriously one of the better Disney sequels . I really do not get the rating of 5 . 3 here on IMDb , because this was just a fun film to watch . If you are honestly telling me you did not laugh when Thunderbolt fakes his death with Lightening to prove that he's still " got it " , Lightening's reaction was just priceless . This is a terrific family film and just a fun Disney movie together if you are just looking for a Disney movie to watch . I loved 101 Dalmatians II : Patch's London Adventure , please give it a look , it's very cute .
Yeah , a bit predictable , but still enjoyable	I have to be honest , I really had a good time watching She's the Man . Despite it being a typical teenage comedy or if you will the switching of the sexes movie , it had some pretty decent laughs that I think anyone could get . Adults and teens alike would over all enjoy this movie . Amanda Bynes is your typical rebellious teen who dresses and acts like a guy , and when she is turned down to try out for the boy's soccer team , she decides to take over her brother's appearance to prove herself worthy of being on the boy's soccer team . Of course , love shows itself when she meets another guy who thinks she's her brother . She also has a girl who is chasing after her . Well , the tag line says it all . This is a fun little teen drama that I think will be remembered for a while . Amanda Bynes did prove something in the film , it's really hard to really act like a guy . : D Well , it's true !
I still can't believe how good this film was !	I had no clue as to what to expect when I decided to rent Black Snake Moan , I never heard of it and wasn't sure if it would be a good movie . But when I checked IMDb for the rating and the user comments , over all it's pretty good , so I rented it yesterday and just watched it a few moments ago . I have to say that I was actually very impressed with this film and how good it was . I know I might get bashed for this , but I was in awe that Justin Timberlake actually did a good job of acting . But it is Samuel and Christina that truly take this film . Together these two had incredible chemistry and really made the story work it's way into your heart on those who just need a hug and a reminder that life can be hard , but you just have to keep strong and know that there are better ways of handling life . Rae is a girl who just lost her boyfriend , Ronnie , he's going to fight the war . She's left in her little town where she has a bad reputation of sleeping around and she doesn't mind it either . But one night Ronnie's best friend gets mad when Rae insults his manhood and beats her up and leaves her at the side of the road . A divorced black man , Laz , finds her and takes her to his home to help her and make sure that he purifies her . Rae struggles at first , but after talking with Laz and his friends , she discovers that there's more to life than just hooking up with guys and that maybe she's worth something a little more . Christina Ricci has come such a long way since that little girl in The Addams Family , she is truly growing as an actress and to be honest I wouldn't be surprised if she gets an Oscar nod in the future . She was really incredible in this film as Rae , she broke my heart and was very moving . Samuel did a great job as Laz as well , his scene where he's singing to Rae about his ex-wife and their life together made me cry , he was so wonderful to watch . I would recommend Black Snake Moan , it was a pleasure to watch and the story was inspiring to never give up on yourself .
Why such a low rating ?	I'm surprised in some ways that this is only a 6 . 4 , I really enjoyed this Monroe classic . It was once again a change from her typical ditzy blonde role that she normally plays . She takes on a serious role that involves the west with rugged men and a tough type cast as a woman just trying to survive with her boyfriend . When her boyfriend tells her that he found some gold and needs to make a claim they venture out , but when the raft they travel on goes crazy , they are saved by a man who is bonding with his estranged son . Her boyfriend , Weston , gets crazy and hits the father and steals his horse with promises to come back for Kay , played by Marilyn . But the father has different plans and wants revenge , taking her and his son to find Weston and kill him . But Kay keeps reassuring him that Weston has had a difficult life . He ends up falling for Kay , but she won't have him until he will be at peace with her boyfriend . This is a terrificly acted movie and had great action and a great plot . The only complaint I had about this and I can see why the rating is not as high is that they kind of buture the reputation of Indians . But just relax and enjoy the movie , it's a lot of fun .
A very in depth and big swallow of a movie	Malcolm X , I wrote a paper on him for my political science class and this man , even though I didn't agree with most of his views , he was a very fascinating man . So , I was excited to see Malcolm X and learn a little bit more of his life or Spike Lee's eyes of the man . This is an incredible movie , I mean 3 hours ! Wow , I couldn't believe that I made it . The acting and sets are just over the top but very impressive . The story seemed very accurate , but over all it made me very angry on how people treat each other . It always did hurt me that people could be so vicious to each other . But I think that's why I could understand Malcolm was a very angry man , but I remember reading that he was having a change of his views before his murder . So I give him a lot of credit because life is too short to hold on to so much anger . Malcolm X is a great movie and I would highly recommend it .
Very cute and fun for the family	I honestly thought that " Daddy Day Care " was a very cute movie . I really had my doubts since I don't have my own kids lucky enough , I don't have to watch this . But my mom said to give the movie a shot and to have fun with it . I was plesantly surprised and laughed more than a few times . Yes , it's a cheesy movie and very typical , but you have to learn to have a little fun with it . It reminded me a lot of " Kindergarten Cop " . You have got to admit that this was a lot better than Eddie Murphy's last film " The Haunted Mansion " . It's got laughter , drama , and just good old slap stick fun that you or the whole family will enjoy . Just give it a shot .
A nice little romantic comedy	I am one of those non believers of love . In today's society we are either too busy or can't get enough of that lovin ' . But in " Hitch " , I agreed with Will's character . We don't give love much of a chance . I think that's why most people enjoyed this movie , it gave us a little hope for true love . I have to admit , even I had a little faith after this film . The story is very cute and fun to watch . The chemistry within Eva and Will's character was interesting and believable . And I loved Albert's character , I thought he was so sweet . I would recommend this movie , for cold heart romantic's and the hopeless . It was sweet and fun to watch .
So funny , one of my new favorite comedies !	I have heard of Bachelor Party a couple times , once on VH1's I love the 80's and also in Clerks 2 there was a small reference . The weird thing is , I'm more used to a dramatic Tom Hanks , other than Big and A League of Their Own , I've never seen him in a raw comedy movie , so it was a little weird to think of Tom Hanks as this very funny male lead in a movie . But I decided to go ahead and give the movie a look , I have to tell you , I haven't laughed so hard and so out loud in a movie like this in a long time . Then I check out the rating on IMDb , 5 . 7 ? ! Are you kidding me ? ! This movie is just so beyond funny , I know that it is cliché'd eighties , but come on ! I just couldn't believe that anyone else would not find this to be a funny film . If you're telling me you did not find Brad to be funny , you have got to get your funny bone checked because Bachelor Party is non stop laughs from beginning to end . Rick is about to get married to beautiful Debbie , his friends who live to party are throwing him the biggest bachelor party they can have . Debbie's rich and snobby family definitely don't want Rick to be apart of their lives , so Debbie's dad will do anything , including her ex-boyfriend , Cole , who wants her back , to split them up . But the bachelor party night has arrived , and things are going more crazy than the boys have expected . Bachelor Party is seriously funny , it's predictable and silly , especially the end , but it's all in good fun . This is perfect 80's humor , it's the humor I miss and I'm sure others do too , because it's raunchy but doesn't over do it and just has fun with the audience . This cast looked like they had an ultimate blast and Tom Hanks was just brilliant , his character could be a jerk , but such a great guy at the same time , so he's real and likable . This is just a funny movie that I would recommend , it's a lot of fun and the rating on IMDb is just too harsh . Come on , let's get this rating up .
Free Nessie !	I saw the trailer and the making of The Water Horse : Legend of the Deep , I don't know , something about this film just captured me . It just seemed like a really creative story and looked like a great family film . So , I decided to go ahead and check it out today and I have to say that it really did live up to my expectations , it was a cute film for the whole family to enjoy . It's a different version of Free Willy I think , lol , sounds crazy , I know , but I think you'll agree when you see it . It's definitely a tear jerker , but one of the better films I've seen in a little while in the theater . It was made very well and I'm surprised it hasn't gotten more notice , but like I said , I think I just saw something special in the story . We haven't had a Lochness monster movie , all we know is the infamous picture that has never been prove to be fake or real , and The Water Horse : Legend of the Deep tells us the story behind that picture . Agnus is a young and lonely boy in Scotland , his father who he was very close with has just gone off into WWII to fight . His home has just been taken over by English soldiers to fight off the German's . His family has lost something too , life and laughter . But when Agnus comes across what looks like a strange rock , is actually an egg left by an Water Horse , the rarest of all creatures , there can only be one in the world at a time . But he takes care of the baby who is water bound , while protecting him from his mom and the soldiers . But when the water horse , he named Crusoe , has grown too big , he and a family friend put him in the Lochness Lake where he is spotted and is now known as the infamous Lochness Monster . The Water Horse : Legend of the Deep is truly and honestly a good film . It has such a magical touch like The Secret Garden , where it's a serious story , but it's for the family . I thought it was very well made , the visual effects are very good and not over done , which was great , because obviously the Lochness monster is going to be CGI , but they made it look so real , and so lovable , lol , like I said , I did cry , it's a tear jerker . The characters are terrific , they really found terrific actors for the roles . Alex Etel does a beautiful break out performance as Angus and was so charming . I would highly recommend The Water Horse : Legend of the Deep , it's one of the best family films I have seen in a while .
Crafty little thriller	A few weeks ago my mom and I were watching Insomnia on TV when it was storming out and right as the conclusion was about to happen , the power went out ! Don't you hate it when that happens ? So I just had to rent this movie and finish it , I just watched it this morning and I have to say that Insomnia was a very clever thriller , almost on the edge of Hitchcock . The plot was so very interesting and also makes you question your own ethics on what is right and what is wrong . It's rare that a movie really does have that kind of effect on you , where you almost wonder if it would be so bad if someone got away with something so terrible . The actors in this film were absolutely terrific in their performances , especially Robin Williams who has proved to many that he can act brilliantly in a drama and now in the thrillers . Insomnia is a clever thriller that I was very impressed with . Will Dormer and Hap Eckhart are two detectives from L . A . who are coming to Alaska to investigate a the fatal beating of a 17 year old girl , Kay . Dormer meets another cop who admires his work , Ellie Burr . Together along with other policemen they find the killer , but he gets away . In the middle of trying to find the killer in the deep woods in the thickest fog , Will accidentally shoots Hap thinking he's the killer . But scared , Will tells everyone it was the killer that shot him , but then Will gets a phone call from the killer and he knows about Hap . Now Will has a chance to get off scott free along with the killer , but it's a question of him being able to live with this horrible secret while someone who's innocent goes to jail for the killer's crime . Insomnia is a great thriller , I was incredibly pleased with how well it worked . Al Pacino , Hilary Swank , and Robin Willaims all did a terrific job of acting , they really clicked and made the film work . I think one of the scenes that really got to me was Dormer explaining to Rachel about his ways in L . A . , what he was " escaping " from , you'll have to see what I mean . But Pacino does a grade A job of acting in that scene , he made it so effective to where you would question on what you would do in a tough situation . I would highly recommend Insomnia , it's a terrific film , just don't watch it in the middle of a bad storm , the ending might get cut off , lol .
Christopher Walken is in it ! What more could one want ?	I'm sorry , I have this " thing " about Christopher Walken , he's like the coolest actor ever , and to be honest if I knew he was in this Bond flick , I probably would have watched it sooner ! Well , moving on . James Bond is back once again as the famous and smooth Agent 007 to find out that a rich con man , Max Zorin , played by Chris , is drugging his champion horses with steroids , but the plot goes deeper when a scary He-She looking has made a clever escape from Bond . He goes undercover as James St . John Smythe at Max's house to find out that he is selling microchips to others , along the way he meets another beautiful woman named Stacey Stutton , out next Bond girl . Can they defeat Max and make sure that the world won't get conned again ? OK , I know those lines are cheesy , I just can't help it . : D This James Bond flick is one not to be missed , like I said , Christopher Walken is in it ! How could you miss it ? ! Can't wait for the next Bond , not sure what I'll go for , but wish me luck , I can't wait to see the introduction of Jaws !
A gritty hard cop drama that is surprisingly effective	I have heard so much about The French Connection , in my film class a couple years ago , we watched the exciting car chase scene that made this movie so famous . I just thought of the film again and decided to rent it . I watched it this morning and I have to say that William Friedkin is definitely a terrific director , he caught the mood and setting of 1970's New York and crime perfectly , so it wasn't a shock to learn that this was the 1971 best picture . This is a definite treasure when it comes to film history and is very memorable . Doyle and Russo are cop partners , it's very strange how opposite they are . Russo is pretty straight by the book and clean while Doyle is a grumpy alcoholic but does get his job done . Together they are about to stop the crime of the decade when they find out about a drug smuggle coming from France . Going through so many people to find out what will happen and when , they go through the most extreme times to bust the case . Well , The French Connection is a terrific film that is a must see for film fanatics . Or if you are just looking for a good movie to watch , this was a great one from the 70's . The car chase scene was very excellent , I think not too many people give this movie enough credit on how it was shot and made . William and the cast were just terrific , The French Connection was a very cool film .
I can't believe it ! This movie was so entertaining !	I remember laughing at my mom because she and my sister came home and told me about the trailer of " Snakes on a Plane " , I was like " Who the heck would name a movie ' Snakes on a Plane ' ? " . But they did ! I was laughing even more to see Samuel L . Jackson in this movie , I thought for a minute that he had lost his mind , being such an amazing actor , was his career that desperate ? The trailer just made this movie look sillier and sillier , I just couldn't believe a movie like this was being made , but my mom and I rented it today for fun and we actually had a blast watching it ! After witnessing a mafia murder , the man has to travel to LA from Honalulu with an FBI agent . However , the mafia leader decides to destroy the witness on the plane before he and the other passengers land by planting hundreds of poisoness snakes in the flowers on the plane ! When the snakes break free , they have a party going on ! They are attacking all the passengers in the coolest deaths ever ! And now the FBI agent along with the other passengers must try to land this snake pit before all the passengers die of snake poison . Snakes on a Plane is sheer entertainment and nothing more , as unrealistic as the situations are , you have to admit that it was just a blast watching this film ! The deaths were just so awesome , I think my favorite was the man going to the bathroom and well . . . you have just got to see it ! I would highly recommend Snakes on a Plane for fun ! It was an awesome entertaining movie with cool effects and chilling scares , you won't be disappointed !
A great thriller about the true story of the brutal Zodiac Killer	Just a few days ago , my mom and I watched a documentary on the famous Zodiac killer and his victims . It was incredibly interesting so it got me thinking about the film Zodiac that was released this year and lucky enough it was released on DVD today so I rented it . My friend and I just watched it a couple of hours ago and really liked it , especially on how it ended and was over all shot . I thought it was kinda cool how it started off like a documentary type of movie , but then was turning into a thriller that kept you going and guessing , even if you knew the whole story . In the small towns of California , there are several brutal murders , eventually going onto San Fransisco . These murders are extremely violent and very random , and every time it happens there is a message or sign that is left by the killer that calls himself the " Zodiac " . He sends letters to the press on how and where he killed his victims and teases the police that they will never catch him . But Robert , one of the newspaper cartoonist starts to obsess about the killer , who he is and how they can capture him . With an all star cast , we had absolutely no problem with acting because it was terrific . Jake and Mark held their own very well . The whole story is very chilling and kept you going . The Zodiac Killer is a case that forever will remain a mystery and it was a great idea for a film , Fincher added a Se7en type of feel to this film . It's so funny how I knew the story and how it ended already , but I was actually just waiting to see what would happen in the next scene . I would highly recommend this film to any thriller fan , I'm sure you'll enjoy it , it's a great one for
The Lindsay Lohan vs . Hilary Duff biography	OK , that was a lame joke , but it's exactly what I thought of when I finished watching Pretty Persuasion . After touring Hollywood Video going around in circles a million times , a cute guy that I just had to flirt with recommended Pretty Persuasion and said that it was a huge recommendation . Well , I had to look cute and like I was interested , so I rented it , I watched it this morning just expecting a good movie , but I have to say that this was a good recommendation , because it was a great movie . I just love dark comedies , even if they push the edge , this was just a meaner version of Mean Girls , in my opinion it's a mixed version of Mean Girls and Cruel Intentions to sum it up . Pretty Persuasion is a great film with good acting , a twisted story , and has some of the funniest dark scenes I have seen in a while , James Woods was the show stealer for me , but the whole cast did a fantastic job pulling the story together well . Kimberly Joyce is a student at high class Beverly Hills High School , she has two friends , pretty and popular Britney , and a new Arab student , Randa . Kimberly and Britney want to be actresses and just live the high life . Kimberly's family life isn't all glam though with her gold digging step mother and neglectful , racist , alcoholic father who is all about image . But the girls take a giant leap in accusing their English teacher of sexual harassment to get famous . Or at least that's the motive that Kimberly has led the girls to believe . Pretty Persuasion is a great dark comedy , I don't think it's for everyone though , it is flawed in some ways . Some of the messages are sent the wrong way and the direction was just alright , but I thought it ended brilliantly and for some sick reason I really liked Kimberly's sadistic side , her way of stabbing people with a smile on her face , she was wicked , but so cool in the way she did everything . The best performance besides Wood was James Woods , he was just dead on with his character and as much of a jerk as his character was , he was in some sick way still likable . I don't know why , I knew I was supposed to hate a lot of these characters , but I found them to be so human a the bored rich people who have nothing better to do than complain . I would recommend Pretty Persuasion , if you like dark comedies , this is right up your alley .
It's a bad day to be a fly	The Fly is a movie I have just been dying to see , I have heard a lot about this movie , mainly the infamous " Help me ! Help me ! " scene . But of course the number one reason being that this is the original to the remake with Jeff Goldblum which is an incredible movie in itself , but I was curious what the original would be about . Honestly I was thinking that it was going to be very cheesy , it's a 1950's horror movie that would probably be over the top , but honestly , from the very beginning you get gore , which was odd , but sickly enough I love it ! I am also a huge Vincent Price fan , this is the man of the classic B horror movies and his voice and presence make these movies worth the watch . So I finally got to see this on netflix , I absolutely loved The Fly . Is this better than the remake ? Honestly , the remake is more realistic on what would happen if this really did occur , but don't overlook the original , as cheesy as a fly in a giant trench coat can be , it's all good and this story is tons of fun and really scary . A woman named Helene Delembre phones her brother-in-law , Francois Delambre to tell him that she has just murdered her husband . Francois calls in the police and she admits killing him but refuses to say why . Later , Francois tricks her into telling the story to him and Police Inspector Charas . A scientist , Andre Delambre , has invented a teleportation device . After a few failed attempts , he succeeds with living organisms , deciding to go for the ultimate risk and transport himself . The first time works , but , unknown to him , a fly enters the cabin with him and the two are hopelessly scrambled together . The scientist emerges as a half-man , half-fly , a human with a fly's head , leg and arm / claw . His wife finds out something is wrong as she now sees him with a cloth over his head and a hidden arm . He eventually tells his wife what has happened and she first sees his claw and screams , then later sees his fly head and screams more . His wife , son and maid try to find the " fly with a white head " and fail . The son had caught it just after the accident but had been made to let it go , before any of them knew what it was . Andre attempts to reverse the process to return himself to normal , but fails and when he realizes that his mind is being overtaken by that of the fly he asks his wife to end his suffering by killing him with a heavy machine press . The Fly is a fantastic and thrilling movie . I know that the ending sequence of " Help me ! Help me ! " was cheesy and over the top to some , but to me it was just plain creepy , it really scared me . The whole atmosphere of the film just felt uncomfortable and disturbing . Granted , I know these were not top of the line make up effects with the fly , I do have to laugh juts a little bit with seeing a fly in a trench coat . But still it was effective and made for a great sci-fi story . I love these old movies for a specific reason , this was the time when film meant something to the cast and crew making it and The Fly was made to give people the chills . It's just rare now-a-days , if this was made in today's world , it would be all gore and just stupid . So I do recommend that you see this film if you are looking for a good scare . Both this and the remake are terrific films and are a ton of fun to watch .
Absolutely beautiful and memorizing	A few months ago I wanted The Secret Garden on DVD , I found it , but it was a double feature with A Little Princess , I never saw that movie but remember hearing about it when I was a little girl . Not sure why I never saw it , but I was looking for a movie to watch last night and figured I would watch it and I have to say that this was such an adorable and beautiful film about how every girl in the world has a little princess in them . The girl who played Sara was so incredibly amazing , she was such a talent in this film , and so were the other children . I think the reason why this film is so wonderful is that we could all relate to the magic of being a child and using our imagination to make things better . The story here is absolutely charming . Sara is going to an American private school where over privileged girls are getting their education , her father leaves her to fight in the war . Sara quickly becomes the most popular girl in school and tells all of these imaginative stories to the girls that excite and frighten them . But Sara's dreams are quickly shattered when she learns from the mean and strict Minchin teacher that her father is dead , now she has to " earn her keep " and becomes a servant to the girls . But Sara will not loose hope and reminds the girls that they all have a little princess in them . A Little Princess is an absolutely charming film that I would recommend to anyone . I have a feeling that a lot of American children missed out on it , so please if you see the double DVD of this and The Secret Garden , please pick it up . This was a great film to watch , the acting and sets were so amazing , but it's the story that was so wonderful for the children and adults alike . I'm really glad I had the opportunity to see this movie , it's a great one that I highly recommend for anyone .
It's not that bad	I wasn't too into the movie , but I have to admit I was intrigued . I really loved the plot . And how Antonio's character becomes so passionatly in love with Angelina's character . I'm not sure if I would watch it more then a few times . But it's worth another look .
Facts or Possibilities ?	This is by far one of the best thrillers of 2005 . I'm not sure what people didn't like , what were expecting ? A jump out of your seat horror flick ? There's something I've been thinking about because in my sociology class , we are discussing fear and what causes it . Someone brought up " The Exorcist " and asked why it's so scary . I think I can answer that and why it's the same way with this movie . Faith , it's one of the strongest things a person can hold to themselves . It's the one thing in this world we have that can hold our last hope . The fact of something unworldly taking over our body and soul is terrifying . What would happen to us ? Many people , faith was a lot stronger I believe in the 70's , had their faith shaken up by " The Exorcist " . Because no one wants to believe that something like this could happen . I could go on and on about this , I have a 7 page paper on it , but I won't . The movie itself is a great one . The acting is absolutely terrific , especially by Jennifer Carpenter and Laura Linney . You get into the mood of the whole flick and freak out more than once . You will get a couple of jumps out of this movie . But don't expect a big horror picture , you'll be disappointed . Trust me , this is a good movie of drama , suspense , and horror . Please , have an open mind . Why would some people not like this movie ?
Better than a 6 . 6	I just recently had the pleasure of a viewing of " The Interpreter " , and despite my doubts and not being too interested , I still rented and was pleasantly surprised . I really enjoyed " The Interpreter " , it had high drama and action and a real plot that for the most part any adult can understand . It had a lot of real issues of today and the terrorist plans . The acting is great , I mean we have Nicole and Sean . Although I am curious who else noticed that they were never placed side by side ? LOL , because Nicole is like 5 foot 11 and Sean is like a midget ? I'm sorry , just my friend and I thought that was noticeable how he or she would be sitting down and either or would be standing . The plot is very interesting and keeps up your curiosity due to today's strong stand on terrorism . Nicole Kidman plays an interpreter for the White House and government who happens to over hear a secret plan to kill a country's leader . She now needs protection from the secret service , Sean Penn . Guess what ? He's actually doubting her , but you don't blame him because of her mysterious past which she will keep revealing slowly through the movie . It's a high paced drama that is very under rated and should be given a chance . Also , there is more good news , they don't turn it into a love story that would be kind of unrealistic . I didn't get the PG-13 rating for " Sexual Content " . Does anyone ? But anyways , I would always recommend this for a good watch , especially if you like the T . V . program " West Wing " . This is a keeper !
A big step up from " Rosemary's Baby " and a little baby step away from " The Exorcist "	I thought " The Omen " was a fantastic movie . The thrills and intensity was very exciting . I thought this was way better than " Rosemary's Baby " . This had a little more to get from . The acting is phenomenal . The story is very cool and original . It is also very frightening . It's a great thriller from the 70's . I would highly recommend this . For anyone . You could be a fan from " The Exorcist " . Or just love horror fans . It is practically a must for those fans . There are some moments that were a little boring . And the ending didn't satisfy me . Not like " The Exorcist " did anyways . But it is still a great movie . Watch it alone in the dark . You'll get the full effect .
Seriously good , watch it before you rate it , please	I had the opportunity to see The Family that Preys this weekend , this is my second Tyler Perry movie , to be honest from what I've seen , I think I may check out his other movies , because I do like what I've seen so far . The Family that Preys is seriously one of the better films I've seen so far in September , it's an honest drama that keeps your attention , it was also very touching . In some ways this was the female version of The Bucket List , even as it was hard to watch , it was still an incredibly moving movie . The chemistry between Kathy Bates and Alfre Woodard was just dead on and you really believed in their friendship . I also loved the side story between the two sisters and their husbands , one sister who is rich and spoiled with a good husband who is in major denial about what his wife really is , the other sister who wishes for her husband to keep his head up and live his dream . Tyler Perry pulls in a good family story that will have you smiling at the end . Alice and Charlotte are best friends , Charlotte is a rich business woman who's son wants to take over her company , she's rooting for a different C . O . O . that she hand picks , Abby , who is a strong woman who is working her way to the top . Alice is a struggling woman who Charlotte asks if they can go on a road trip together , she agrees , they go across country enjoying the last bits of life . But what they don't realize is that at home Alice's daughter , Andrea , is sleeping her way to the top behind her loving husband's back , her other daughter is begging for her husband to live his dreams , and Charlotte's son is just a sleaze who will step on anyone to get to the top . The Family that Preys is seriously a very good movie , it will not disappoint you . I'm really disappointed in a lot of these ratings . I believe there are some users lately who don't even see the movie , they just rate it a low number just because they don't like who's the star or whoever is making the film , please , you have to trust me on this film , it's a little treasure and a very strong film that will remind you to not take life for granted , stay strong , and remain proud of who you are . The script had extremely well written lines and I loved the representation of the hardship of being a woman trying to compete in a man's working world , not to sound horrible , but I imagine that's even harder for an African American woman and this movie just inspires you that it is possible to stay strong and work hard , keep the faith , and good things will come to you . This is a fantastic movie , I highly recommend it .
A good change of pace for Hitchcock	Normally , you would expect the same from Hitchcock when you just look at the cover for The Trouble with Harry . It would be another typical mystery / thriller that would either be good or another bore like I have experienced with two films of his . Actually , The Trouble with Harry turned out to be a dark comedy that worked very well . It just is basically about a group of strangers who become friends through a corpse they find in the woods , and they all think they have something to do with his murder . One of the friends is a wife who hit him over the head with a bottle , another is an old woman who claims he attacked her and she hit him over the head with her shoe to get him off , and another is an old man who was hunting and thinks he might have accidentally shot him . One man is just trying to help them all and ends up falling for Harry's wife / widow . It's a fun movie that you get some strange laughs from . There are still a few questions left unanswered , but over all , still a great movie I would recommend for a Hitchcock fan .
Just great !	You know , this movie reminded me so much of so many people I know , I think that's the reason why I loved this movie so much . I was just on the floor laughing because this had such a serious and document feel to it , but the dialog is so hilarious , that you can't help but have a good time . Basically the movie is about these crazed dog owners who are competing in a big dog show to see who is the best of the best . Whlie it seems like it should be the dogs who take this competition seriously , it turns out the owners are just as insane . Megan , one of the dog owners , goes almost serial psycho killer on the hotel manager because she cannot find the special bee squeaky toy for her dog . There is another couple that is just great , Gerry and Cookie , this complete nerd and attractive woman that are just so lovable . In the beginning of the movie , Gerry describes how many boyfriends Cookie had . Throughout the movie , her " lovers " see her and hit on her even in front of Gerry ! It was just great and fun to watch Gerry's looks . This whole movie is just a hoot , and you can't stop with the recognizable faces that keep popping up . It's a great movie is just fun to watch , I'd highly recommend it ! Now , I have to find a nice way of showing this to my friends who are like these couples to see the mirror image of themselves . :
Scared the heck out of me	Running Scared is a terrifying and dark action movie about a man , Joey , who is being slowly betrayed by the mob he works for . When they tell him to hide a gun that could put them away for years , he does so , but he doesn't realize that his son and his friend see where he keeps the gun , Oleg , his son's friend , takes the gun and shoots his abusive step father . Obviously , police and the FBI are involved and if the figure out the gun is Joey's . One problem , Oleg has run away from home facing some pretty horrific things out in the city . Joey , his wife , and his son together try to find Oleg and instead find out some more interesting information instead . Running Scared was an extremely scary movie in my opinion and one of the most intense I've seen in my life . I would recommend if you like those on your seat edgy thrillers .
A sweet romantic comedy , Johnnny Depp gives a very memorable performance !	I remember when I was a kid I was just so in love with Johnny Depp , you wanna know the reason why ? Benny & Joon , this movie was just so awesome to me and it was so romantic and sweet . I didn't see the movies for a few years , so I decided to buy it when I saw it on sale . Re-watching this movie brings back so many memories and I still love this movie so much . Even though it's cheesy and predictable , this is just a charming romantic comedy . The reason why is because it does have something different , the main love story has two characters who are complete opposite , but find that happiness in each other , they also remind another what real love feels like . Johnny Depp plays Sam , based off of Buster Keaten , he pulls in great physical comedy and made this movie magical and enjoyable , believe me , Benny & Joon is a fun story that any one could fall in love with . Benny and Joon are brother and sister , their parents died in a fatal car accident when they were just children . Benny has promised to take care mentally ill Joon . But when Joon walks in on a card game with Benny's friends , she joins in without Benny's knowledge and wins something big , Benny's friend's cousin , Sam . Sam goes to live with Benny and Joon , his physical gags charm their hearts and brings in Ruthie , a waitress who Benny is just in love with but doesn't have the courage to admit it . But the plot thickens when Sam and Joon fall in love and over protective Benny intervenes . Benny & Joon is one of those rare memorable romantic comedies , while the rest of the cast like Mary Stuart Masterson and Aidan Quinn both pull in heart warming performances , it's Johnny Depp who takes the movie ; a time when he was pretty much just known as Edward Scissorhands , he took something different and made it work . His scene in the park with Benny and Joon is just so wonderful and funny . I would recommend Benny and Joon , it's a good movie , terrific actors , and has a fun and catchy soundtrack , this is a movie not to miss .
So sweet , hard not to fall in love with Waitress	When I saw the trailer for Waitress earlier this year , it looked like the big yawn or something that would be more average . Especially since we have not seen Kerri Russell for a while . But I saw this movie at Hollywood Video and decided to go ahead and check it out and I watched this movie tonite and I actually enjoyed Waitress very much . I think because it was one of the most realistic stories I have seen in a while , it wasn't over or under done . Kerri Russell did an absolute terrific job of her character , Jenna , she was truly a tragic , yet uplifting character . She was so beautiful and charming , she brought Jenna to life , I know this is saying a bit much , but I wouldn't give it a surprise look if I saw her for a nomination during Oscar time . Waitress is one of the year's most uplifting stories of the year . Jenna is a waitress in a small town where her pies are just the envy of everyone . She wants to enter a pie contest to win a twenty five thousand dollar prize and it seems promising , but one problem , she's now pregnant , and her husband , Earl is such a scum bag and treats her like dirt . But when the new hot doctor is in town who is taking care of her pregnancy , they start an affair . Things seem like they would be be getting better , but Jenna doesn't know how to be happy once again , until she realize the little joy that is growing inside her . Waitress is a terrific film , I highly recommend it . It was very well written and has wonderful performances . Kerri Russell was lovely and reminds me of those old time actresses . I think my favorite part was when she has her first kiss with the doctor , just it was so random , it was passionate , yet funny , also steamy . She and Nathan Fillinian played the chemistry so perfectly , especially in their kitchen scene , it was beautiful . Waitress was a charming comedy and I wouldn't mind seeing it again , I was surprised and definitely glad that I gave this film a chance .
So dark , but extremely interesting , puts a different twist on Fatal Attraction	In the 2007 Oscars , Notes on a Scandal got a couple nods , I was a little interested in seeing this film . It looked really interesting , when I rented it , I saw Judi Dench as well as Cate Blanchett , both are incredible actresses that could never get enough credit . Well , I just watched Notes on a Scandal and I have to say that this film was incredibly dark , but so interesting to watch , I didn't wanna miss a second , I couldn't move while I was watching it . It had some even mentally horrific moments , moments you would never in a million years wish would happen to you in life . Barbara is a respected teacher , she is the battle ax of the school . Sheba comes to the school as a new teacher , Barbara and her become friends quickly , but Barbara discovers a dark secret , Sheba has been having an affair with one of her young students . Barbara keeps it a secret in return for Sheba's eternal friendship , Sheba does so , but realizes there is a price for Barbara's friendship , she has to be there for her every minute that Barbara wants her or she'll spill the secret and ruin Sheba's life . It was interesting too see the relationship between Barbara and Sheba , it was so scary to watch , but kept the movie in constant motion . I don't understand how Judi didn't get an Oscar nod for this film , she was so brilliant . Her and Cate together were just magnificent . I would highly recommend this film . It's a great drama , one of the best of 2006 , it's a great thriller that will keep you going .
Gave me the heebee geebees	I heard a little bit about Black Christmas a couple years ago when I was watching on TV the scariest movies of all time , Black Christmas wasn't high on the list , but it was in there , and I remember looking at some of the clips they showed and I was completely scared . They also remade the movie and I was curious to see the original first before I saw the remake , the strange thing is when I watched this movie , it sent chills down my spine . Normally most horror movies don't do that , it'll get you scared , but don't get to you like Black Christmas did , this movie just gave me everything I could want from a horror film . Those calls were just so beyond creepy , the voice , you knew what was coming to these girls for the holidays and it wasn't going to be peace on Earth . My only problem with this movie . . . " Whatever you do . . . DON'T GO UP THOSE STAIRS ! " said by a policeman , what does the girl do ? Oh , she goes upstairs , but I guess we wouldn't have a movie if she did the sensible thing . Some sorority girls are spending their Christmas vacation at the house and are just going to enjoy the holidays together . But after some disturbing phone calls with men heavily breathing , making foul sexual suggestions , and even involving blood curdling screams , the girls have a bit of a scare when the mysterious stranger won't stop calling . Something else has happened , one of the sisters has gone missing , when the girls along with some of their friends try to figure out how these calls and the disappearances of other sorority sisters , the might not want to know where the call is coming from . Black Christmas is a classic and should definitely be watched in the dark , this movie just had me scared and wanting more . It makes you wanna just stay in your room and unplug the phone , we all get prank phone calls at least once , but this is our worst nightmare is when those calls are just more than a mear threat . Olivia Hussy was a great selection , I've only seen her in Romeo and Juliet and the TV mini series IT , I didn't know as a teen she could be so great for a horror movie . Like I said there are some cliché's that I was a little angry with , but this movie does deliver some good scares and will not disappoint you , it's a true sleepover classic .
Very dark , but that's the way fairy tales are supposed to be	Lemony Snicket's A Series of Unfortunate Events was a silent hit of 2004 , I remember I wasn't too sure if I wanted to see it or not because it just looked too dark for what I thought it was intended to be , a family film . But I was looking for a movie to watch yesterday and decided to go ahead and give the movie a chance . While I still think it was too dark for a family film , I thought that it was still a great film and the crew did a remarkable job of bringing the story to life . Normally while Jim Carrey can over do his roles that have this type of character , he actually portrayed Count Orlof extremely well and did a terrific job . I'm in some ways surprised that he didn't get more notice for this film . He , Meryl Streep , Billy O'Connelly really brought Lemony Snicket's A Series of Unfortunate Events to life . The sets and costumes were marvelous and the story was a frightening but imaginative one that I'm sure any film fan would enjoy to watch . Three children : Klas , Violet , and Sunny have just lost their parents and home to a horrible fire . They are left in the hands of one of their " closest " friends , the scary looking and crazy Count Orlof . The count makes the kids do his chores and makes them cook dinner for him and his friends , but the one thing he does want is the children's inheritance from their parents . After attempting to kill them , they are taken to a safer guardian , but Orlof isn't going to give up so easily , he is going to go through as many guardians as it takes to get back these children . Lemony Snicket's A Series of Unfortunate Events is a terrific film , I was incredibly impressed , I'm glad I decided to give it a chance . It had good comic relief , but also had some thrilling moments , while I don't think it's a good idea to give this film completely to the kids , it's a family thriller type of film that I'm sure could be enjoyed . I know there are a lot of kids that wanna have a more grown up genre they could watch and this might be the film for them . I do recommend it for watch , this film is definitely worth the look . Not to mention , for once it was nice that they didn't over do it with the baby comedy , she was actually cute and funny . You'll see what I mean when you watch it , you'll be happy too , the kids are very likable and so are the rest of the characters .
Aaliyah is in it , what more could you want ?	Of course I say that because she is my favorite artist . RIP Babygirl . So , getting back to the film . I was a little shocked . It was pretty good . I don't like computer effects . Especially the obvious fake ones . But I think the film in a way needed it to give it tension and suspense . Great performance by Aaliyah and Jet Li . SPOILERSIf you are expecting the Romeo and Juliet plot line . Don't get your hopes high . They do like each other , and their families are at war with each other . But they never kiss and the way I see it , Aaliyah : " Wait ! Aren't we supposed to kill ourselves ? " Jet Li : " Well , we made up for it by killing everybody else " OK , I'm messed up . But you could always use a little humor .
This is only for Rob and House of 1000 corpses fans , I'm serious !	OK , I'm not a big Rob Zombie fan , but I do like some of his songs : Living Dead Girl and Superbeast . Even though I am a huge fan of pop music , there is a very soft spot on my heart for heavy metal and rock - n - roll music . As most of you know , if you have viewed my comments , I am a huge horror movie fan . I enjoyed House of 1000 Courpses ; it had a Texas Chainsaw massacre feel and went back to the classic horror movie clique's that most horror fans truly enjoy . " The Devil's Rejects " is by far more violent and scary . Like the commercial said " They kill without reason " . That's right ! The family's back and they're more homicidal than ever ! House of 1000 Courpses was a little edited you can tell by Rob's standards , I think he had more freedom with this movie . It is incredibly violent and in no way should be shown to children . I couldn't believe actually that it was only rated R . But I did for some sick reason enjoy it . I'm not sure why , maybe because I was just in a good mood for a gory flick . In this film , Baby and Otis completely torture this family , and I MEAN torture . Sexually , violently , mentally , your body just aches for what happens to them . But I'm not giving spoilers away . Captain Spawlding is back and he's a lot meaner than the first film . They finish off over dozen victims with a great ending playing a terrific song by the late great Lenord Skynord , " Free Bird " . " And this bird you cannot change " . It's true when it comes to this family . I would recommend this for Rob or House . . . fans . Otherwise , it's a pretty twisted movie that you might loose your stomach too .
The best of the newer Star War films	I'm not that big of a Star War fan , but I did enjoy the movies very much . And I'm talking about the older ones . The one's that were more realistic with the special effects . Now , if you notice in my movie comments , I did not comment the Episode 2 , because my mother said if you have nothing nice to say then don't anything at all . But this third one was the best out of all three of the newer Star Wars . Everything finally came together . You know it's kind of funny , I was expecting a happy ending . Yet you know if you have seen Episode 4-6 , that it's not going to be so good . : D I thought the acting and effects were very awesome and believable . Coming from a computer generation , it's a bit disturbing how many bad effect movies there are , but Episode Three was cool to look at and have fun with . George Lucas has come a long way in the film industry . In the 70's , there were a lot of breakthrough films that changed the history of cinema : The Godfather , The Exorcist , Jaws , Taxi Driver , and The Godfatehr Part Two . Who would have thought how far and popular the " Star Wars " trilogy could be ? This was the best closing for the " Star Wars " movies that could be done . I would highly recommend this movie just to have some closure in the series and for an excellent time at the theater . After all , who knows when the next time will be when we hear the blasting sounds of the " Star Wars " theme again ? :
Really good and very under rated on the IMDb page	I was extremely hesitant about picking up Running With Scissors at Blockbuster the other night , because after seeing the disappointing rating on IMDb , I thought this was just going to be one of those pointless dramas that would be impossible to like . But something just told me to give this film a chance , it had an excellent cast and an interesting plot , so my boyfriend and I went ahead and rented it and watched it last night . I have to say that I was very disappointed , mostly on the reviews here on IMDb , why such a low rating ? I'm not sure , because there were only a few tiny flaws that I found in this film , but they were quick to pass on , because the acting and story telling in Running with Scissors was very good . I think the thing that might help with that is because I could relate to it on some level , which sounds wacky , but from my family background , it felt good to know there was someone else out there who was going through the exact same situation . Deirdre Burroughs is an extremely loving mother to her son , Augustine , she lets him stay home from school whenever he wants and plays with him all the time . She's also a failed writer ; when she goes to a therapist about her failing marriage , the doctor , Dr . Finch , doesn't really help , but actually makes her husband run away from her . Leaving Deidre alone , she feels like she needs to be alone and leaves Augustine with Dr . Finch's wacky family that lacks discipline or even sanity . But he's determined to figure himself out and how he could possibly lead a normal life after this . Running with Scissors in my opinion was a great film , I didn't see much wrong with it . I thought the acting was terrific , especially on Benning and Fiennes part , they really took the film for me . When Deirdre has her over dose and starts to see snow in the room , Annette made her character so believable and almost tragic . Neil reading the poem to the woman's poetry group was classic and he read it with such passion , Fiennes is an incredibly under rated actor , he did a great job in this film . How this film has a low rating on IMDb ; I don't know . But I do recommend this film , I thought it was very good and should be given another look .
This is either one of the stupidest movies I've ever seen or one of the funniest	Harold & Kumar Go to White Castle , in 2004 just from the title , I never wanted to see this movie , it just sounded so incredibly stupid and a waste of good film . But on Bravo a few months ago they had this movie on it's top 100 funniest films of all time and also they're not releasing the new sequel in a month , so I figured what do I have to loose ? Just go ahead and give the movie a chance , so I rented it yesterday and watched it today , I hate to say it , I couldn't stop laughing . I mean from beginning to end this movie is just so unbelievably funny , I think it's because it doesn't take itself seriously and the actors just have so much fun with it . Kenn Pal and John Cho have a great chemistry for the buddy relationship of Harold and Kumar , not since Bill and Ted has been such a great stoner move . Harold and Kumar are two friends who are about to enjoy their Friday night getting high , they get the munchies and are looking for the ultimate satisfying food : WHITE CASTLE . So they go on a trip to the local White Castle where they are disappointed to find out that the White Castle is closed , so they have to travel across town to get their craving . But the night is still young from emergency surgery to chilling with the cheetah's , from Neil Patrick Harris stealing their car to hang gliding , this is the ultimate night just to get the perfect square hamburger . Seriously Harold & Kumar Go to White Castle is one of the funniest movies I have seen in a long time . I couldn't believe how much I laughed out loud during this film , I think I have to join in with the fans on this movie . I just loved everything about this film except for the potty humor , that's always for me a huge turn off , but I got over it because this was just a fun movie . The script , the actors , the fantasy with the weed and Kumar was just beyond hilarious . I loved Harold & Kumar Go to White Castle and highly recommend it , don't take it seriously , just have fun .
Footloose , Penguin Style !	When Happy Feet took the Oscar for best animated film of 2006 , I became extremely interested in seeing this movie . But I kept on hearing that this didn't deserve the Oscar , so I was a little scarred about seeing it , but I figured , everyone has a different opinion of what deserves what award and such . So I rented it anyways and I watched it last night , I have to say that this was such an adorable film and so much fun , why all the mean reviews ? It had great animation , fun songs , and an adorable story that I'm sure anyone could enjoy . On the Emporer Penguins Island , they are known for singing , not only that , but they are terrific at it , but when Mumble is born , he's a bit different , instead of being a singer , he's more of a dancer . But no one is buying it , in fact he is even sent away from the island , but he meets several penguins who are also outcasts . But there is also a bigger problem , the fish population is winding down when humans keep taking them , the penguins are starving and Mumble will try to use his tap dancing skills to communicate and save the island that has isolated him away from his friends and family . Happy Feet is all in good fun , I think people really should give it another chance . Out of Cars and Monster House , I would pick this for the Oscar , but I guess I might be alone on that one . But like I said , everyone has a different opinion , but I think if you just give this movie a shot , you'll find yourself laughing and having a great time . It's a great family film , I loved the animations , the story , and the songs , they were just terrific .
Well , a bit over-acted , but still an excellent movie	I just went up to my mom and even asked her that I thought Joan Crawford was real , she said that she was and that this is a very true story about her , may I say that this was a very mad woman ! The way I thought of seeing this movie was that I was watching " I love the 80's : Strikes Back " and they mentioned this movie , it looked so entertaining and crazy , I simply had to see this movie . While I did laugh a few times unintentionalbly , I really did get into Mommie Dearest . It was so intense and disturbing to watch . Mommie Dearest is based on the real life of Joan Crawford , an actress who is praised most of the time , but sometimes put down quite a bit . She wants one thing , a child of her own , but since she can't get pregnant , she adopts two children , Christina and Christopher . As she gets older and gets more rejections from studios , she becomes a raging and abusive alcoholic , not to mention a neat freak , I don't think freak is a strong enough word . The children learn how to deal with her as long as she lives and does their best to survive . Over all , despite the fact that it is over acted , I think this was a pretty good movie . It kept my attention throughout the whole film and I am surprised by a low rating . I know Joan would throw a fit , so out of respect and fear ; - P , no just kidding , just because I really did like the movie , I'm going to be very fair .
Jim Carrey at his best	I love Jim Carrey . He is honestly one of my favorite comedic actors . And I heard so much about this movie , that I just had to see it , and I laughed up a storm . Every joke in this movie gets a giggle at the minimum . I would recommend this if you enjoyed " Liar Liar " .
Pretty good Vampire-flick	For some odd reason , I really enjoyed Vampires . I think because it took such an interesting twist on your typical vampire movie . We finally have an action / horror movie where we have slayers after the master vampires who are trying to make it possible for all vampires to live out in the daylight . Basically , Jack Crow and Montoya are slayers who have just lost their crew of other slayers to the master vampire , Vallek . There's another person they take along their journey , a prostitute named Katrina , who has just been bitten by Vallek and can have a visual connection of where he is and what he is doing . The Catholic church appoints a new padre to the team and the 4 of them find a way to find Vallek and destroy him before he can make it possible to have vampires walk in the daylight and try to save Katrina in time from becoming a vampire . While it's a bit , well , OK just plain over acted , especially on James Wood's part , I think I still enjoy watching this movie . I don't expect much , just a fun horror flick to watch . If you are into vampire movies , please , go ahead and watch , I think this is one of the best vampire movies in years .
Good musical , not my favorite though	Every day , for 10 years my sister blasted this movie . For 10 years I heard nothing but " THE HILLS ARE ALLLLLLLLLLLLIVE ! ! ! ! " , you get the idea . It was a bit traumatizing . So naturally I had a growing hatred for this movie . It was way too goodie goodie for me . But I recently watched this movie , despite a few seizures , I made it through . It's a decent movie and Julie Andrews is very charming . The songs are a bit catchy . They'll be in your head for a few days , believe me . Over all , if you enjoy musicals , I would recommend it . Otherwise , it's one of those really heart warming sappy movies . I couldn't really get past my traumatization . You understand my rating . You can only take so much of it .
Very cute and enjoyable	I never wanted to watch this movie , but when my mom told me that it was very funny , I figured that I should give it a shot . I was glad that I did . It's very funny and sweet . Definatly a must see for Adam Sandler or Drew Barreymore fans .
A classic feel of Western with the added brilliance of Clint Eastwood and an equally strong cast	I have heard quite a bit for " Unforgiven " , also I want to seen all the best pictures from the 90's . I was also excited to see Morgan Freeman in the cast , so I know now that " Million Dollar Baby " was not Clint and Morgan's first experience together . They work so well as a team and bring nothing but sheer entertainment and charm to movies . " Unforgiven " is a very good picture that has a real story and isn't just about " cops and robbers " or " cowboys and Indians " . How far would you go for a friend ? I loved Will and Ned's friendship so much because you could tell how much they had been through together and Will went back to his old ways in the blink of an eye for his dear friend . I loved watching Will's story through the movie , the first time you see him , he's just so charming and you would never had suspected of his former life of crime , alcohol , and bloodshed . Through the film , you have a lot of doubt for his character if he could go back to his old life despite his promises to his deceased wife . He , the Kid , and Ned go on a trip to kill two cowboys who cut up a prostitute's face for $1 , 000 . 00 . Together , they learn that this isn't going to be such an easy task when the boys they're hunting down belong to a town where guns and all arms are banned that could lead to a punishment as far as death . But Will gets sick and the Kid and Ned give a lot of talk in killing these cowboys themselves , when Will is just half himself he does the deed himself in killing one of the cowboys . He tells Ned to go back home and he'll take care of the other cowboy , he does so but gets caught and beat to death by the sheriff . The Kid and Clint do the rest of the job by killing the other cowboy and receive their reward by the prostitutes , but Will learns of Ned and goes back into his old habits . What happens next ? You'll have to watch yourself . Something that I learned that was interesting , Clint dedicated Unforgiven to Don Siegal and Sergio Leone , two directors who believed in him as a young actor . Unforgive is a remarkable film : methodical , deeply felt , with a devastating emotional and moral impact . It is easily one of the best Western movies . Like I said , it just has such a classic feel to it and you can't help but enjoy it . It seems like Clint might just own Hollywood one day . : )
We need more animation films like this	Tarzan was kind of like the last real cartoon animation film for Disney , which is sad when you think about it . I miss the films like The Lion King , The Little Mermaid , Aladdin , and Beauty and the Beast . I worry that my future children won't have the same experiences as I used to have , now a days it's Pixar that is the latest craze . Tarzan was an extremely fun movie for the whole family to watch . It had incredible animation and a great and touching story . It does have it's cheesy lesson at the end , but I think that's what makes Disney so special . While I admit , this isn't the best Disney movie , it's still a good one to watch .
A great comedy for the summer and probably the best this year so far !	I couldn't wait to see knocked up , from the trailer , this looked like such a fun movie that anyone could laugh at . I didn't see it opening weekend , so when I peeked here on IMDb , I couldn't believe that it was already on the top 250 , especially for a comedy in this year ? I had to see this movie ! My friend and I saw it yesterday and we had an absolute blast . But I have to admit , there were a few jokes that had me a little thrown off or were a little too much , but I have to say that thinking about it , it did over all work because it was realistic . I think we all know someone who is like a character in this film and that was what made it lovable . Ben Stone is a pot head who is very lazy and is about to put a website up with his friends on how long celebrities are naked in their films . Alison Scott is a determined and hard working woman who just got a hot promotion interviewing celebrities on E ! When she goes out to celebrate with her married sister at the hottest club , she meets Ben , they have a little too much to drink and well , you know the saying " Don't drink and drive , it causes accidents " ? Well , let's put it this was " Don't drink and park , it causes people " . They have sex and Alison gets pregnant , she tells Ben , and they now are trying to get to know each other and pushing themselves to even love each other for the sake of this child . Knocked Up has great jokes that anyone I'm sure sometime in your life could relate too . Every character is sympathetic because you could relate in some way . The story worked very well , because sadly , I'm sure this situation happens more than we'd like to think it does . Katherine and Seth had great chemistry and worked so well together , I won't be surprised if their movie status is going to rise after this . Knocked up is a great comedy that I very much recommend , I think you'll have fun .
Disturbing how it seems like they actually predicted the future !	I love silent films and remember seeing a clip of Metropolis in my film appreciation class , I was so excited to pick a five dollar copy of this film from Best Buy and I was just amazed at how disturbing this movie was for not only it's time , but today . Today , 2006 , times are just like this movie's plot , everyone is getting so lazy due to technology's quick advancements , that they'll do anything just so they have to work less . This movie is about a boss who is upset with the way his workers are always tired and have to go home . When he brings up to another worker that he has created the perfect worker , a robot who will never get tired , hungry , or have to go home to a family . But soon the worker has a fantasy , or as I'd say a very horrific nightmare , that the robots will turn against these humans and take over the world ! Yeah , silent films have always been overacted and very cheesy to look at , but it's amazing to me to see what the times were like and what the mood was . The reason why Metropolis is so well loved and respected is not only because of the mood it captured , but how amazingly psychic it was , I think since the time that electricity was discovered , we've all feared how far we could go with technology , and Metropolis is a haunting picture that captures it so well .
Now this is what Shakespeare meant when he wrote Romeo and Juliet	Comparing this to the updated Romeo + Juliet ( 1996 ) , this one is more enjoyable . And more faithful to the play . It's exactly what Romeo and Juliet was meant to be . It's funny , cheesy , romantic , dramatic . There are some scenes where they carry on too long . But I'm very pleased with this classic . Nothing could compare to Romeo and Juliet . Sorry Leo fans , but this is the best Romeo and Juliet .
Another James Bond Classic to remember	James Bond in Dr . No , from what I understand this was the debut of the 007 films or at least one of the first . I have to say that I really enjoyed Dr . No . Maybe even a little better than Goldfinger . Again , I've said before , I'm enjoying this in the fact that I'm getting more Austin Power jokes . Not to mention finally I know where Dr . Evil comes from . Dr . No is the new villain and he has an island where he is killing everyone who steps on it and plans for world domination . But James along with a new honey , ironically named Honey , will stop him and have enough time for cuddles and smooches . So far out of Golfinger , I think I liked Dr . No better . But I would never dismay anyone from either films , they're both a blast to watch .
Not my dad's James Bond , that's for sure	When I was a kid , my father and I constantly watched all the James Bond films together , I always loved every adventure James got into , the women , the villains , the gadgets , everything about James Bond just equals fun and excitement . But the later James Bond films haven't been so pleasant to watch , so I just stayed clear of Casino Royale . But I heard nothing but good things about Casino Royale , so I decided to go ahead and see what this movie was going to be like . So I rented it , I watched it last night and I wasn't expecting anything special , but I really loved Casino Royale , it was so different than what we are used to with our James Bond films . Not to mention Daniel Craig , the James Blonde , I know a lot of people were having doubts , for those who haven't seen this , watch it , Daniel will definitely take your doubts away . James Bond in his first years as an agent has his first major assignment . He is the best card player in the organization , so his boss , M , sends him to beat a mafia boss , Le Chiffre , who is taking so much money . James is set up with Vesper , a foxy beautiful woman who is the head of Treasury , and is pretending to be his wife during this whole charade . But when Le Chiffre is onto Bond and Vesper , they may wanna think about not being a secret agent so much any more . Casino Royale goes where no other James Bond movie has gone before , it's a lot more darker , it's more realistic , even though you know that these gadgets are over the top , they seem like they could exist . The actors are just top notch , we have Dame Judi Dench who's Bond's boss , she was a great addition to the franchise . Eva Green was a great Bond girl and her last scene was beautifully shot ; I was really impressed with the editing , the action scenes , the movie shots , everything about this movie was just great and was so much fun to watch , it's pure entertainment , I highly recommend it .
A good coming of age film	The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants , what I expected to be one of the worst movies I have ever seen , I couldn't believe it , I'm going to be honest , a hater of chick flicks ( I'm a girl by the way ) , I actually loved this movie . I was so shocked that I actually enjoyed this movie throughly . Scary enough , every girl I could relate too : the Greek boyfriend , the suicidal mother , loosing a close family member to leukemia , and the neglectful father . It was disturbingly psychic to my life , but I think that's why I enjoyed it so much is that this movie wasn't unbelievable in any manner . No , I haven't read the book , not sure if I would read it , but I do know that I would recommend this movie to my friends . It's funny , smart , realistic , cute , and just makes a great story for the harder times of growing up and becoming an adult . Tibby , Carmen , Lena , and Bridget are four friends who have grown up together , they call themselves the sisterhood who have found one pair of jeans that magically fits them all . Tibby spends her summer making a documentary and befriends a sick little girl who shows her that it's OK to care about people . Carmen spends the summer with her dad who has almost " upgraded " with his new marriage and shoving it in Carmen's face . Lena is spending the summer in Greece with her grandparents and has an unexpected forbidden romance with a cute guy . Bridget is going to camp practicing her non stop stardom in sports and chases after a coach which she's not supposed to do . But they mail the pants to each other and write letters in the summer that they have officially grown up . The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants was one of those pleasant surprises for me , because even though it is a very girly movie , it's very real and doesn't over do it . We haven't had a good coming of age movie in a while , so this is a perfect film for the family as well as teenagers . Will the guys enjoy this film ? Not the action lovers at least , but I'm sure that any film buff could find the true heart of the film and just fall in love with The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants , it has good acting , great stories , and makes you remember the scary time of growing up . The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants is a recommendation for me , this is a non miss movie .
I can't believe I'm saying this , it was actually good !	I wasn't at all interested in seeing Alpha Dog when it first came out , but my friend's brother had bought it when it was released onto DVD and he said that it was a great film and that Bruce Willis was in it , enough said , lol . I know it's ridicules , but I am such a Bruce Willis fan , so I rented this a couple days ago and watched it , I have to say that from what I was expecting , this turned out to be a pretty good film . It was a scary thing to watch since we have Justin Timberlake being introduced into the world of acting , but he was actually doing a good job , even though I laughed a few times since he's a white boy playing a ghetto guy . Still , he and the rest of the cast did a great job of this extremely sad story that led to the brutal murder of an innocent 15 year old teenager who had nothing to do with what their intentions were . Johnny Trulove is a notorious drug dealer in California who is loved by most since he seems to be such a good guy and takes good care of his customers . His closest customers are like family and come over all the time . But when an extremely sad and pathetic druggie comes over , Jake Mazursky demanding that he needs more drugs , but doesn't have the money , he and Johnny get into a huge fight . Jake comes back and breaks into Johnny's house and takes the TV and does some pretty sick things , then Johnny sees Jake's little brother walking down the street and kidnaps him . Now while his brother , Zack , is a hostage , he actually ends up partying with his boys and becomes one of them . But Johnny is so freaked out at what could happen when Zack's rich parents find out that he's thinking murder for the kid . Alpha Dog starts off as this dark drama with some comedy mixed in , but then takes a brutal turn that makes the movie into something extremely sad and disturbing . The only thing I wish they had made more clear to the teenagers and possible kids watching this movie was what horrible things that drugs could do besides just not think clearly . Because there were some moments where they made it look like drugs could be OK and fun to do every once in a while . But I can't change the movie , however , I do recommend this film , it was pretty good and definitely got the story through to you .
Surprisingly good for a fancy computer effect movie	I must say that I was pleasantly surprised by this movie . I really had no intention of seeing " I , Robot " , but I kept passing it at Blockbuster and I was extremely curious . Some part of me wanted to be stubborn , but I finally caved in and rented it . I actually saw a good movie . From 2004 ! Even though the computer effects are a little off the top , it goes well with the story . And you feel as if you are in place with this future . It wasn't too outdone like " The Jetsons " or anything like that . It's based in Chicago ( EXCELLENT ! ) in 2035 , so you get a kick out of seeing what it might be like in the future . " I , Robot " is a good movie . I would recommend it . Will made a great choice in participating with this film . He's back and he's better then ever !
Too much for me to handle	My mom and sister saw The Bucket List a couple days ago and told me that it was wonderful . So tonite my boyfriend and I decided to go ahead and see it , and I'm still in tears . The Bucket List unfortunately hit home so hard for me and I'm surprised at my mom and sister , since we have had quite a few family members that lost their battles with cancer . The Bucket List while is semi-uplifting , it just was almost torture . We have these two characters who we know are probably going to die and they're so lovable , we're setting us up for a painful story . I think that's the reason why , besides that it brought back so many painful memories , that I didn't really like this story . These two characters got to do so much that many would do anything to do , and I'm not sure how to take that . Edward Cole has it all he could possibly want in life , he has tons and tons of money , lots of beautiful women , and the world at his feet . But all that changes when he is diagnosed with cancer , he is roomed with another cancer patient , Carter Chambers . They are both told that they are lucky if they have a year to live , so they make a " bucket list " , things they would like to do before they die and Edward makes it so . They travel the world , skydive , race cars , you name it . But they end up with something more powerful , a loving friendship that will last eternally . The Bucket List is incredibly made , I mean it's Rob Reiner , I will always give Rob the true credit he deserves . Including these amazing A-list actors , Jack Nicolson and Morgan Freeman who were just beautiful together . The movie has these incredibly gorgeous scenes as Carter and Edward are traveling the world , just amazing . But the film just had hit such a hard spot for me I think . It was a bit much to handle , same with my boyfriend who hasn't lost anyone to cancer , so while this was a charming movie about death and living life to it's fullest , we loose the characters that we want to live so much . The Bucket List is more for the older crowd I think , because it's a bit to handle for the younger crowd , I don't mean that as insulting , it's just too much and too painful to think about .
The short British version of " The Stand "	28 Days Later , I had heard about this movie a little bit when it was first released here in the US . I wasn't sure what to expect , but people were saying that it was extremely scary and one of the best horror films they had seen in a while . So my mother bought it on DVD and we watched it together , I would say it's not just one of the best horror films in years , but it was also one of the more brilliant one's . We all know the ultimate fear of maybe waking up to a different world and the main character just doesn't wake up to a different world , but a very nightmarish one where people have gone from eating food to eating human flesh ! This is not very pretty . Late one night , British animal rights activists break into a research facility to free chimpanzees being used for medical research . The local scientist warns the activists that the chimps are infected with something he only calls " Rage , " but the activists disregard him and set a chimp free . It immediately attacks and infects the activists and scientist . 28 days later , a bicycle courier named Jim awakens from a coma in a deserted hospital . As he leaves the hospital , he discovers London is completely deserted and rife with signs of catastrophe . Jim is soon discovered and chased through the streets by infected people before being rescued by two survivors , Selena and Mark , who rush him to their hideout in the London Underground . They reveal that while Jim was comatose , the virus spread uncontrollably among the populace , turning most people into vicious monsters and resulting in societal collapse , possibly on a global scale . That night , two of the Infected attack the survivors , and when the fight ends they discover that Mark is bleeding and is likely infected . Selena kills him , explaining to Jim that infection is spread through the blood and overwhelms its victims in seconds , rendering them deadly to others . They discover two more survivors , Frank and his teenage daughter Hannah , holed up in an abandoned block of flats . The next morning , Frank informs Jim and Selena that supplies , particularly water , are dwindling , and shows them a prerecorded radio broadcast loop transmitted by soldiers near Manchester who claim to have " the answer to infection . " But this is the government , we know how this always goes . This is a great horror film that I'm sure will not disappoint you , this has one of the most intense scenes of all time in it . When the gang is in the tunnel trying to get to the sunlight as quick as they can before the " virus " attacks them as well , but they accidentally make a noise and it awakens the dead people and it becomes the ultimate chase for life . Plus these are not George A . Romaro's walking zombies that you can for the most part outrun , this is zombies on speed and they are terrifying . So I do highly recommend this movie if you get the chance to see it , it's a great horror movie , has good actors , and a terrifying story that will probably give you some really scary nightmares . Not to scare you off , but that's an effective horror film and believe me I have seen them all , so 28 Days Later is a new treasure of mine .
A suspenseful and breath taking thriller with two new promising actors	Cillian Murphy and Rachel McAdams are pretty new to Hollywood as leading actors , and together they made quite a great thriller called " Red Eye " . So many people told me about this film and I had my doubts , I wasn't too sure about these actors . But surprisingly despite some unrealistic situations , this was a great on your edge thriller . Rachel is a hotel manager who happens to be seated next to a hit man , Cillian , and he's after her father unless she arranges for a client of her hotel is moved to a room where he will be murdered . Can she save both lives and possibly save her own ? You'll just have to see . I would recommend " Red Eye " . One of the best thrillers of 2005 !
I had a blast watching this film !	" Wedding Crashers " is without a doubt one of the best comedies that I have seen recently . Every person on this Earth must have told me at least one good thing about this film . I'm so glad that I watched it , for the most part , I'm just going to tell which sequences I enjoyed the most and you would get a kick out of as well . One of the rules for these wedding crashers is that they do not take a girl's " virginity " because she might get attached , when Vince's character is not aware that the girl he just slept with was a virgin , she goes crazy on him and he just wants to get away from her . The scene where he is in bed with her and she's trying to get an " adventurous " side for him , I was on the floor laughing . It's just a great movie and Owen and Vince had great comedic chemistry .
So much funnier than I was expecting	After seeing the trailer for Role Models , I thought it looked like a funny movie , but I wasn't expecting much , I was thinking they might have just shown the great parts in the trailer and that would be it . But I took the opportunity and saw Role Models the other day and I have to say this is completely opposite from what I was expecting , first off I was worried that there was going to be a lot of gross humor and the kids might be more annoying than funny , but it turn out that this was one of the funniest movies I have seen this year . I just couldn't stop laughing throughout this film , who knew that Sean William Scott could actually be really funny ? I know there are a lot of Stiffler fans that will hate that sentence , but I don't remember a time that I laughed so hard at his character . He and Paul Rudd both worked so well together and were terrific on screen , this was the last duo on Earth that I expected such great laughs from . Wheeler and Danny both work for an energy drink company , but after a very hard day for Danny he crashes their company truck on school property , but his ex-girlfriend , Beth , who is a lawyer is able to get them just 150 hours community service with two kids , one is a total dungeons and dragons nerd and the other is just a pain in the butt . You know how the story goes , Danny learns how to be happy and Wheeler finally grows up into a more father figure role . Now the story is something we have seen a million times before , but it's still a great comedy . Jane Lynch who is becoming one of my favorite comedic actresses , you've also seen her in 40 year old virgin , she is just absolutely hilarious in this movie and has all the best lines " You know what I ate for breakfast ? Cocaine . You know what I ate for lunch ? Cocaine . . . " she is such a great and fun actress to watch on screen . I really loved Role Models , it turned out to be a great comedy and was an absolute blast to watch . I highly recommend if you get the chance to see it , take it , it's a guaranteed laugh .
Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban	OK , finished the third installment of the Harry Potter series and still doing fine , lol . I have to say that this was a great installment into the series , I still haven't read the books , so I cannot judge on those , only the films . So the Prisoner of Azkaban I must say had a much more dark side of the story , the kids are now a little more grown up and facing much more terrifying things as the head on to become great sorcerers . The cast is still doing great things together , same as the other films with a great addition of Gary Oldman . The story seemed also a bit stronger than the other Harry Potter films . After having trouble at home once again with Harry Potter's adoptive family , he runs away sick of being called a freak and wanting to be with his own . Only now entering his third year at Hogwart , he is about to face a great enemy , Sirus Black , a murderer who would like to see Harry dead to avenge the sorcerers . Not to mention his constant feud with his schoolmate , Draco , won't stop , but he has his friends to help him lead on into a world where Harry will live and become a great sorcerer . The Prisoner of Azkaban was extremely entertaining and kept my total attention . I loved watching him having to learn how to control and use the bird like creature in his first class and just seeing finally Draco getting his . I would very much recommend The Prisoner of Azkaban , it was a great installment and I cannot wait for the Goblet of Fire , from the rating , I'm extremely excited to see what that is about .
So leprechauns can fall in love . Aww !	Leprechaun 2 , aka 4 funerals and a wedding , the leprechaun is back and he wants his bride for his 2000th birthday ! I know it's silly , but I love the Leprechaun series so much , it's just so enjoyable and fun to watch . Especially if you love horror films as much as I do . Warwick Davis also reprises his famous role as the leprechaun , which is a major plus , since he's really the only one who can do it . You also notice some other " little " stars in the bar sequence that Warwick has made famous throughout the years . Yeah , the story is a little gross , but I think that's why I loved it . Leprechaun is back to reclaim his bride , she sneezes once , she sneezes twice , she'll be his bride when she sneezes thrice ! And he's gonna love her . . . to death ! In today's world , her name is Bridget and she has a relationship with a cute young orphan , Cody , he is taken care of by his alcoholic con artist uncle . When Cody and Bridget get into a fight , Cody comes back to Bridget's house to apologize , little do they know that a friend of their's has just been splattered by a lawn mower , thanks to our friend , the leprechaun ! He also makes Bridget sneeze three times and takes her to his haunting layer , but Cody has a piece of his gold ! The leprechaun must have it back ! Leprechaun 2 has much more great humor , like the scene where he and Cody's uncle are drinking , and it was just so hilarious to see a leprechaun drunk . " Drink all you want . . . drink all you can . . . you can't beat me . . . ' cause I'm a lepre-can ! Mmmph ! Chaun ! " LOL ! I loved that line , please , watch this movie if you are in the correct mood or enjoy the series . Don't take it so seriously , otherwise , you're looking for the wrong kind of movie .
You'll be glued to your seat from minute 1 to minute 109	I just watched Lucky Number Slevin and at first I admit that I was watching , but it seemed like one of those confusing movies I'd never get , but my mom said to just sit tight and wait for the great ending , and everything just made sense from there and it turned into one of the best thrillers I have seen in years ! It was very funny because this movie reminded me so much of North By Northwest , and they even mentioned that in the middle of the movie ! I mean , what's not to love about this movie ? Basically it starts off as your typical mob type of movie , a murder here , a murder there , but that leads into the main plot that takes us to Josh Hartnett , who plays Slevin . Slevin is staying with a friend and gets taken away when he is mistaken for being Nick Fisher , the friend he's staying with , and he's been asked to not only kill a mobster boss's rival , another mobster boss's son , but he owes the mobster boss , the man who's son he's going to kill , $33 , 000 and must get it in 48 hours . He and the girl across the hall he's fallen for try to figure out what is going on and keep landing back to a man called Smith , played by Willis . Surprise twists and turns take it from there . This is a very exciting movie , I would highly recommend this movie for anyone . The acting , the sets , the action is just incredible and keeps you looking at all times . I am really impressed that there was an actual good thriller of 2006 , this one keeps you guessing and will have you surprised from beginning to end .
Simon and Nick are the funniest comedy duo today !	I wanted to see Hot Fuzz so badly in the theater , because Shaun of the Dead is one of my favorite movies and this looked just as funny . Unfortunately , most of my friends don't share the same sense of humor as I do with comedies . So I rented it yesterday , watched it last night , and I have to say that this movie delivered great laughs and had a great story . It was so funny to see action movies for what they really are , Simon and Nick were such a great duo , I love these guys , they have such a natural chemistry despite being total opposite characters . Hot Fuzz is such a great parody of every action movie you have ever seen . Nicholas Angel is a good policeman in London , his arrest record is through the roof , he has been injured on the job , and everyone likes him , well , almost everyone . The London police are a bit upset with how well he does and transfers him as a Sargent over to a small town , Sanford . He meets , Danny , another cop who is just completely clueless to anything around him . In fact the whole police squad is convinced that Sanford is the perfect town and nothing will never happen . Until murders start appearing , but they always look like an accident , but Nicholas is on the move with Danny to find out if Sanford is up to something bad . Hot Fuzz is a great comedy , I think I still like Shaun of the Dead a little better , but I don't know , I'm having a hard time deciding because this was a great movie too . I loved the Romeo and Juliet scene , how they were doing a homage to the remade version and their cheery version of " # 1 Crush " by Garbage was just so out of the blue and idiotic , but so hilarious ! I really enjoyed this movie and I would recommend it to anyone if you need a good laugh , Hot Fuzz will guarantee you that .
Great sci-fi from the 50's	I'm on a little goal to see the sci-fi films from the 1950's , so The Thing from Another World was next on my list . I remember watching this with my father when I was a kid , but it bored me to death , I didn't think it was scary at all . But I didn't want to write a movie comment on it until I could see it again as an adult . So I watched it this morning and I have a new look on this film , first off , I love the subtle history in these sci-fi films , I liked how the scientist that wanted to explore the alien looks Russian , and of course this was made during the cold war era , so as usual the Russian looking guy gets it . But this movie also stands out against other horror movies , it's one of the first horror movies that takes place in an isolated area , the cold and harsh weather of the North Pole . Granted , I'm still not scared of this film , but I definitely appreciate it a lot more now that I can see what The Thing from Another World was expressing to it's 1951 audience . A group of scientists in the North Pole have discovered a round ship underneath the ice , they thaw out the pilot . Still in ice , they take him back to their lab to melt the ice , but maybe that's not such a good idea since the pilot is a man killing alien from another world ! He escapes the lab and starts the killing spree , the group gets together to take him down , but the bullets are failing and this thing will not stop until he's killed them all . Now I do recommend John Carpenter's remake , I think it had better character development vs . the original . But still there is something very special about The Thing from Another World , it's the first real sci-fi film that came out of the 50's , and is still very creepy . The scene where they set the alien on fire was definitely intense and scary to watch . The Thing from Another World is a great sci-fi classic that I'm sure any film lover could enjoy , I just wish I could go back in time and see this in the drive-in , lol .
I was very " lucky " to watch such a great flick !	What can you say about Dirty Harry that hasn't already been said ? This is a very cool movie and without a doubt my favorite Clint Eastwood character . He is just such a cool good / bad cop , you gotta love him . Especially those famous words " You gotta ask yourself one question : Do I feel lucky ? Well , do you , punk ? " . What a great line ! What great deliverance as well ! Dirty Harry was the movie before any famous cop flicks came out really , and it was interesting to see from a cop's point of view on the emotions that run through his head when he captures a filthy criminal and they go free . The whole movie you just root for his character and hope that good will always triumph . This is a terrific film and essential to the 70's !
Michael . . . being bad . . . is this the same Michael Jackson who believes in Peter Pan ?	Not everything that Martin can create is a masterpiece . I'm going to be honest , " Bad " was one of my least favorite songs by Michael . I had only ever seen the edited and short version of " Bad " . I bought the " History " DVD . Lucky enough they had the longer version . I was pretty excited . I am a big MS fan . And same with MJ . This was just too unbelievable . Michael Jackson telling Wesley Snipes whose bad . And the look . . . let's just say that the Easter Bunny is a little more ittimidating than Michael is . But I do want to give some props to this video . The editing is very nice . The chorogrophy is amazing . And the story is pretty original for it's time . So , I have a soft spot for this video .
We are D-fens !	You know , to those people who claim that this is racist or too violent , I think that they are just scarred . Because we all have thought like D-fens . The day that I saw this , I was visiting my friend , it was supposed to be just a one hour drive that turned into a three hour mess because of construction on the express way . I just wanted to get out of my car and walk to my friend's house , it would've been a lot quicker . Not to sound psycho , but also , I wanted to scream at the construction workers , they are destroying a perfectly fine street ! They charge more on the express way tolls now to put me in traffic for a longer time . The food mart , how many of us wanted to ask " Why do you charge so much for a bottle of pop ? " To street gangs , if we get off your " territory " , why do you still want to beat up innocent people ? The list goes on and on . Watch this movie and give it a chance . It's very true and we all can put ourselves in D-fen's shoes .
A great period piece , Kiera pulls in a fantastic performance	I couldn't wait for The Duchess , I am just a huge fan of period pieces and Kiera Knightly is becoming a fantastic actress in this genre . I was looking forward to this film mainly because I studied Georgina a little bit in college for my history class and I always thought she was such an elegant and strong woman that stood out from the others . She was like the Madonna of her day , she had a great sense of style , self , and strength . While the movie is not completely accurate , it still was a fine movie to watch . Kiera truly held her own as Georgina and was absolutely stunning . One of the underlining stories that I appreciate in this film is the battle of the sexes . Ralph Fiennes who plays the Duke of Devonshire does a fantastic job as well and he plays this anti-villain , shows the true side of the pain and pressure men felt but how they looked at women as nothing but property . This story truly touches you and makes you grateful for our present day . Georgina is born into a high class family of royalty who is about to be married off to the Duke of Devonshire and everything seems great , G is going to live the high life of class , culture , and being a lady of the people . She comes across the price though : her husband's affairs that are practically rubbed in her face , her life is constantly watched and judged by people , she must be perfect at all times to keep up her reputation as a joyful lady , she is forced to be the mother of the duke's child from an affair he had , as well as she cannot birth a son for the Duke and he will find every opportunity to rub it in her face . All this and Georgina has found another love who she cannot give her heart to fully for the love of her children and people . The Duchess is a fine film that I truly enjoyed . I wouldn't be surprised if Kiera was nominated for best actress during the academy season . I would highly recommend this movie , especially for the period piece lovers . Like I said , this film makes you appreciate what we have today in our modern society and truly makes you feel for the pressures both men and women had to face in that day . Georgina is a figure that I think is very looked over in history when she is one of the strongest presences in England's history . The Duchess , even though not entirely accurate , does a very good job of telling her story and was a pleasure to watch .
Just like " Friends Zone " , starts off really good , but when it gets down to business and wants the truth , it abruptly ends	" Just Friends " is one of the best romantic comedies I have seen in a long time , but my only problem was on how it ended because it seemed like it just wanted to get it done and over with . But I could relate to Amy Smart's character in some ways , so being able to be in touch with the film I think helped a great deal . Also , I loved the jokes ! Anna Farris is one of my favorite comedic actresses , she knows how to carry a joke and make her character so funny ! She's just a hoot in this film ! Amy and Ryan looked so cute together in this film and the jokes are non stop . The love story is also very touching and I think a ton of people could relate to it . So , I would highly recommend this film for a good laugh and a touching one at that . So , sit back and enjoy !
I found it amusing	I saw this in the theatre with my dad a year ago , and it felt uncomfortable . But I bought the movie a couple of months ago . And I just can't stop laughing when I see guys try to act like girls . The plot is dumb , but it can be fun to watch . The only thing that was a tad bit scary was the lesbo parts . But Adeena and Roberta were more amusing then Daisy . So , they make up for it . Just watch it . And judge for yourself . Have fun !
Classic laughs	I have to say that this is one of the greatest comedy trilogies I have ever seen . Leslie Neilson has never stopped with the laughter and his fearless performance as Frank . Presilla does a fantastic job and her Thelma and Louise with Ellen Green was just memorable and fun to watch . OJ Simpson , the " downfall " I like to call it , because three months later came the murder trials . Anna Nicole Smith was actually amusing in this film , I loved the crying game parody . There are a lot of great spoofs and jokes in the film . I think anyone who needs a good laugh or loves the Naked Gun movies should watch 33 , it's just guaranteed of a good time .
What was so bad about it ?	I recently saw the first Butterfly Effect with Ashton Kutcher and enjoyed it , it had a unique and haunting story of what the consequences might be if you change the past . The second one has the same concept , just a different cast . I was expecting a horrible movie after all the bad reviews on this film , not to mention the low rating . But I actually enjoyed the second Butterfly Effect . This time we have a boyfriend , Nick and his girlfriend , Julie , their friends and they are on a trip . Nick gets called into work again , driving everyone back and gets into a fatal car accident killing his friends and his girlfriend . A year has passed and Nick's still having bad dreams and headaches , but when he gets his hands on a picture they took that day of the accident , he goes back in time and prevents the accident from ever happening . Things are actually looking up for him , Julie's back and their relationship is stronger than ever , but he can't except the fact that he didn't get promoted at work , so he goes back again . But he ends up making things worse for his relationship and friendships . The Butterfly Effect 2 , even though it's not Oscar material , I felt that it was a decent film , a lot better than most that I've seen . I think people just need to give it a chance , because I didn't really see any problems that wouldn't put this film in the 5 or 6 . 0's on the rating system . But I guess that's just me , but I want to help this film , so I'm going to give it a good rating .
Very gritty and dark	When I watched 8 MM , I didn't know what to expect , but I noticed that Joel Schumacher directed it and I am a fan of his . Also it stars two other terrific actors like Nicholas Cage and Joaquin Phoenix , so usually that equals a great film . 8 MM turned out to be a terrific dark drama that I'm not so sure that I understand it's low rating . I was actually expecting it to be in the 7 . 0 range when I went to check it out on IMDb , but it's in the low 6 . 0's . I understand that it's an extremely dark movie that not too many people would wanna take a look at , but for what it was , I thought it was great . It took us into the deep dark world of porn and what some sick people get off on . It's not just about that , but also it takes us into a detective type of drama that makes it into a scary type of thriller . Tom Welles is a detective that is given a strange short movie called a " snuff film " , where a beautiful young girl is being brutally raped and then murdered on film . While it's supposed to be fake , it looks incredibly real and terrifying . Her relative asks him to find out wither it is fake or real and if she's still alive . This means he has to go deep into a world of brutal porn that is out of his league . With the help of a porn salesman , Max , they go to find out if this girl is really alive or not , but end up getting into some serious trouble when the directors and " actors " find out about them . 8 MM is in no way for the faint of heart , there are some extremely disturbing images that I really wouldn't like to see again , I'm sure most wouldn't either , but this is a great dark drama that I would recommend for a watch . Nicholas did a great job , but Joaquin really takes the show here . He made his character incredibly believable and almost sympathetic . Joel really made me believe the story , he shot it wonderfully and didn't over do anything . I would recommend this film for a watch , it's a great thriller that is impressive as well as scary .
" Is it terrorists ? ! "	Nope , indeed it is not , it's forces beyond our understanding from the other worlds ! It's War of the Worlds in fact ! LOL ! Well , after the huge TomKat craze I think everyone felt in 2005's summer , I felt like I had seen enough of Tom and that kind of effected me seeing the movie , I know that's sad , but I think most of us felt the same . But to my surprise , actually I shouldn't be because of Steven Spielberg , this was a great movie . It kept me interested and it was quite a ride ! But once again , Tom's crazy antics kept me just being sarcastic and wanting him to call the man in the cellar that was trying to help them " glip ! " : D I had fun though , this had such an eerie and very real feeling to it that kept you screaming and wanting to know how to defeat the alien forces . The machines , even though I'm not a fan of CGI , were awesome and frightening ! The acting , especially on Dakota's part , was really amazing . Yes , Dakota went a little crazy with the screams , but she reacted like most ten year olds would . I was a little confused with the son , Robbie , going off into the battle fields and later on was in Boston waiting for his father and sister . Didn't make much sense . Steven has done it again , this has to be one of the better remakes of this year so far . He had a great cast and great ideas , I just feel bad that Tom gave all that bad publicity for him onto the film . But like I said , it's a good movie and should be given a chance . It has cool effects , good acting , a great scenery and feel , and just a sense of horror of this possibly happening ! The truth is out there ! :
If you enjoyed Silence of the Lambs , you'll definatly enjoy " The Ugly "	I'm not a fan of " Silence of the Lambs " . In fact I think it's a little over rated . But I was impressed with this thriller . It's an interesting tale about an interesting fellow . Going through his gruesome life of murders . Great performances , and a great story line .
" I'm leaving town , and I suggest you all do the same "	I recently saw the theatrical trailer for the movie Resident Evil : Extinction and it occurred to me that I never saw either Resident Evil movies , even though I've been wanting to see them . So I rented the movies yesterday and watched them last night and I have to say that I was a little surprised about the rating on IMDb , I really loved Apocalypse , I think I liked it better than the first Resident Evil . Milla Jovovich is still so awesome and I think she's improved since the first movie . In Resident Evil : Apocalypse we have more action and in my opinion a very awesome story , one that is even up there I would say with George Romero's zombie stories . We start where we have left off where Alice has been left in the lab with her friend , Matt . But she escapes and finds a world that is not the same , where the virus has broken out into the world and zombies are now walking above ground . People are doing their best to survive and there are now new people called STARS where they are being eliminated by a huge new monster who might be familiar to Alice . But she is with survivors : Jill Valentine , Carlos Oliviera , Captain Nicholai and they find a little girl , Angie Ashford who's dad Dr . Ashford is the man who created the virus and is being hunted down . Resident Evil : Apocalypse was very awesome to watch and it's a buy for me at least . I'm really looking forward to Extinction now , I can't wait to see how they continue the story . See , the only bummer about me watching this now is because now I have to wait for the sequels as well . But at least I get the experience of the theater . But anyways , I would recommend this movie for anyone , it's an awesome movie to watch and has terrific action .
Another Best Picture Classic	I have a little confession that I simply need to say , I rented a TV show by accident over at the video store and didn't realize until I got home , I went back and said that it was a broken DVD and exchanged the DVD for this movie , WHEW ! That felt so good ! Gosh , I felt like I was going to burn in H-E-double hockey sticks for that if I didn't get that out . : D Sorry , I just always talk about in the first paragraph how I came across the movie , so that's the story . But anywho , I just finished From Here to Eternity , the timeless classic that was before An Officer and a Gentleman and I have to say that I really did enjoy this movie . A private , played by Cliff , is brutally treated badly by his army crew since he refuses to fight , boxing , for them . He falls in love with this hired lady to entertain the army men and she falls for him , finding herself in jeopardy of her job with an AWOL private who is now on the run for murder ! Also , the second in command chief is falling for the captain's distressed wife and they have a very steamy affair that they find themselves getting deeper and deeper into trouble with . From Here to Eternity was such a great film for the simple fact of how honest it was . I was thinking about film classics today when a friend and I were discussing it and I mentioned how they are so different from today's films , they seem so acted , but not over done , and they were never ashamed . They did the best they could and these films were made to be good , not to make money or get famous . That's what makes From Here to Eternity a great film to watch , we need more films like this today !
Man , Uma can kick some butt !	I finally saw " Kill Bill " . Everyone was telling me that I had to see this movie . It was too good to miss . I couldn't believe how violent it was . But I was very impressed and surprised to find that this was a pretty exciting movie . I loved Uma , she rocked her character beyond her limits . Over all , I would recommend the movie . This is by no means a film for kids , not even with parental supervision . That's the only warning I'll give . And when I didn't think I was going to , I am going to see Vol . 2 . The first one leaves you hanging . So , I can't wait . There were a couple questions I had , but I am sure they will explain in the sequel . And the only complaint I had was with the animation , I'm sure they could've done without . Maybe not , maybe I'm not looking through " the artistic " point of view . So , I'll pass on the complaint . Good job to Quentin .
It sure was dark	But surprisingly very decent . I had so many questions on wither I wanted to see this movie or not . A couple of my friends saw it and said it was good , but very dark and disturbing . I have to usually be in a certain mood to watch these types of films . After seeing it at Blockbuster a few times , I passed it up , but kept it in mind the next time I went to rent a video . I finally picked it up and was pretty surprised . It's a bit confusing and disturbing at times , but the acting and story are amazing and original . I would highly recommend this film for a good watch . But like I said , it's a very dark film . But it is very good .
A surprisingly good ghost story	I remember this coming into theaters , and my sister telling me that it scared the crap out of her . So , I figured I'd see it . I didn't know what to expect . But I was shocked , this was a very clever ghost story . With a surprising ending . I won't spoil that though , it's too good to spoil .
Almost as good as the first Die Hard	I have to say that I was really impressed with this Die Hard film , the trilogy has just been an awesome one . This time we have a new partner , Samuel L . Jackson , who works so well with Bruce , they have such a great chemistry as partners in the film . Die Hard : With a Vengeance is a worthy sequel of the original Die Hard . It has great action , a terrific story , and in some ways it's just a fun comedy . I loved how John just wouldn't stop complaining about the aspirin since he has a hang over from the night before . Especially his line when he finally gets aspirin from the main villain , it was just priceless . I think you'll definitely love this Die Hard if you are a fan . John is no longer at base one in life , he's actually farther behind I think , he's pretty much lost everything since his nasty drinking problem . He's suffering from a bad hang over this one morning and things get worse when he is threatened by an unknown villain to stand in the middle of the worst ghetto city wearing an offensive poster , right as he's about to get his butt killed , Zeus , a shop owner helps him out , but ends up getting involved . It turns out that the villain is Hans Gruber's brother , Simon Gruber , who is about to do everything his brother supposedly did wrong and will get the money . But John is going to make sure that he puts the Gruber name to shame . Die Hard : With a Vengeance is an excellent action movie , it was a lot of fun and I couldn't believe how well it was made . Sam and Bruce are just perfect together . Jeremy Irons could not be more perfect for the role of Simon , he and Alan are so much alike where they have the most awesome voices for super bad villains . Yes , a little typecast for being a British villain , but it's all good , I think . I highly recommend Die Hard : With a Veneance , it's a great movie and a great end to the trilogy .
A great film , I don't think the rating is justified	I was going through my mom's movies and found Amistad , I noticed how it had some really great actors : Anthony Hopkins , Morgan Freeman , and Djimon Hounsou , so I decided to check it out . I finished it today and I was absolutely moved by this film , I agree that it's not as memorizing as Schindler's List , but I do feel like this is a terrific film and is just incredibly heart breaking . Spielberg did a great job in telling the horrific stories of illegal slave trading , just what it must be like to not be treated as a human , but nothing more than property and like an animal . Djimon Hounsou , I can't believe this guy was not nominated for an Oscar , he was just incredible in this film and delivered his lines so beautifully . This was a very sad but important story to tell and I felt that no one else could have told it better than Steven Spielberg . On an illegal slave trade , all the African slaves escape and slaughter the sails men brutally , the slaves are captured though and brought back to America to be put on trial for murder . Baldwin , their lawyer is fighting their innocence while their leader , Cinque , tells their horrific story of their trade and how the men that kidnapped them brutally beat and killed some of them . In a country where almost half the population are slave owners and white , this seems like the trial of the century and hopefully with the help of an ex president , John Quincy Adams by their side , they will be free to go home again . I highly recommend Amistad if you get the chance to see it , I honestly don't see how others cannot appreciate this story . The actors did a great job , even somehow out of surprise , Matthew McConaughey delivers a decent performance , so why has he taken such a down turn ? But Anthony and Djimon truly take the show , especially in their first scene together where Cinque is explaining how he will have his ancestors with him by his side at the trial . The speech that Hopkins delivers at the end is very inspirational and reminds you to forget the hatred , the differences , that deep down inside , we are all human and have feelings . Amistad is a great film and I think it does deserve a better rating and a more fair chance than it's been given .
It broke my heart	Not saying this isn't an excellent film , it is just bluntly honest . I remember in English class in high school , we were learning about racism in the 60's , and how horrible it was . The worst part was that I am from a very racist town , unfortunately , and watching the beginning of the film terrified me because I felt like this world hadn't changed since I felt like I was living that film . Being one voice sometimes can either be helpful or get you into a lot of trouble . I didn't want to see this film again because of the awful situations I saw or heard of . Now , I am out on my own , and I had the chance to see the movie once again , and felt that I could see it . It's a terrific and very powerful movie that can get anyone to cry unbearably . It's not just the actors , but Gene and William's characters , I wanted to be just like them , they were able to stand up even though the many times of being knocked down and caring so much just to try to in some way save that town . I honestly feel that everyone should see this movie , it can change your life or make you look around and want to change things . I know this comment feels more like a lecture than a comment , but that's how much this movie got to me . I think we all can do something right in this world , it's just a matter or standing up . Even if this film isn't historically accurate , it's accurate enough to see how people treat other people . Hopefully , we will have a better future for generations to come .
Sexy and stylish !	5 . 5 ? ! I cannot believe some of the reviews on this movie . I really thought that " Head in the Clouds " was a great movie . It has accurate history , remarkable acting , very cool costumes , and a interesting story . Charlize and Stuart are in their second film together and bring so much excitement to the screen . Penelope Cruz does great as the supporting role as well . I would highly recommend this movie for a good watch . Please , do not base this movie on the rating from IMDb . I'm telling you right now , this and " Casino " are the ratings I'm really disagreeing with . They deserve higher , especially " Head in the Clouds " . Give this movie a chance , you won't regret it .
Awesome Music !	I have to admit that Purple Rain is one of my deepest guilty pleasures . Purple Rain not only broke boundaries , it set a decade , the costumes , the music , the behavior , and the dancing ! To this day , my friends and I still jam to the Purple Rain soundtrack and pretend to be Prince and the Revolution . Now the movie itself , I just meant what I said in the title , because for the most part , this movie itself is made by the music . The acting ? Please don't let me judge on that since this is one of my favorite guilty pleasures , because I know that it was not Oscar worthy by any means . But I think the duo that took this movie was Morris and Jarome , their speech about passwords was just beyond hilarious . I just want to rate this movie on the concert sequences because I felt that it was what made the movie . Prince is a musical genius and created beautiful music . While the movie and acting is pretty bad , this movie is still a fun one to watch at night and even dance too . This movie defined the 80's , so just have fun with it . Prince would want it that way , just to party on down ! Oh , boy , that sounded lame .
Thank you , M . Night Shyamalan !	Wow , I have seen so many bad movies lately that it is not even funny ! I have almost lost total faith in Hollywood because of the horrible films I have seen , but I wanted one last chance before I lost it . So , I rented some more movies , and I had this great story " Unbreakable " about real life super hero's and villains . The acting is terrific and the story is original and fun to watch . The whole story is just about if there are real life super hero's and villains and how they are born . Bruce Willis is nothing too special , he doesn't fly or have super powers , but he is unbreakable . He's never been injured except for one drowning incident when he was younger . Samuel L . Jackson or " Mr . Glass " has very fragile bones and breaks easily and is trying his best to convince Bruce about his capabilities . With a twister and awesome ending , Unbreakable was terrific !
All I have to say to the Bride : Picky much ?	Sorry , I just cried so much for the creature . It's not like the Bride has much of a choice of men , and she wasn't all that . Take what you can get , right ? OK , ok . I know it's a movie . But I just had to get that out . " The Bride of Frankenstein " is a remarkable and timeless movie . I thought it was even better than the first " Frankenstein " . The movie shows human emotions and what can get the best of us . The acting is fantastic and the sets are amazing . As far as classics go , I would always give this movie a chance . The ending is a huge cry fest to let you know . So , be careful if you are a hopeless romantic . This is a great movie to watch with your boyfriend or girlfriend . You'll realize how lucky you guys are to have each other . :
Essential film from the 60's and in any film fanatic's list of what a terrific movie is	I have heard so much about " Bonnie and Clyde " , it's sickening . First off , in my old film class , the professor talked about " Bonnie and Clyde " and how popular it was . Then here on IMDb obviously , this a pretty big hit . Then I went to the book store recently and saw a book called " 1001 movies you should see before you die " and this was in it ! Then also I was reading in " Premeire Magazine " , they had an article about the most shocking moments in history , and one of the scenes is mentioned in here . I had to see this film and I knew that my mom had it . It blew me away , not literally . But you know what I mean ; this was just a terrific movie . Warren and Faye had such chemistry and a click on screen that it was difficult not to love them . Even though they were killers , you root for them and their whole gang . See , the strange thing is , I think a lot of the viewers would agree that they never really meant to get into killing , in this film particularly , they just freaked out and did what a lot of people would do in a snap reaction . The story is very cool and the acting is so old school , you can't help but fall in love with this masterpiece . I highly recommend .
Disturbing and creepy !	The strange thing is that I had never heard of Mr . Brooks until I saw it on DVD at Hollywood Video ; lately Kevin Costner has not had that many impressive movies on his hand , so I wasn't interested in seeing it . But I didn't see anything else that looked worth a look , so I figured I would try to give this movie a look and see if it had anything . I just watched it this morning and I have to say that this was a great thriller . I was so incredibly impressed with Costner's performance as Mr . Brooks , he played it so perfectly , one of the best serial killer performances since Kevin Spacey in Se7en . I'm not a fan of Dane Cook , but he actually pulled Mr . Smith off very well . Demi Moore , she did an alright job where she was believable . But William Hurt and Kevin Costner truly stole the show and were absolutely brilliant together . Mr . Earl Brooks is a successful man , he owns a successful box business , he has a gorgeous wife , a beautiful home , and a lovely daughter . But things aren't what they seem when we see the double life that Earl leads . He has an alternate personality named Marshell , that encourages him to continue his addiction of killing people . He's known as the " thumbprint " killer and Detective Atwood is on his case . But one killing he gets caught , by a photographer for in exchange for his silence , Mr . Smith , the photographer , wants to go on to Mr . Brook's next killing . But things get more twisted as we go more into the story . Mr . Brooks is an incredibly brilliant thriller that I was very impressed with . The cast and crew did an amazing job on bringing this horrific story to life . I'm now really interested in reading the book , so I would highly recommend the movie to any thriller lover . Kevin Costner did a perfect job of acting , I can't believe he did so well . Especially his scene where he suspects his daughter of murder , he and William Hurt were incredible . Mr . Brooks is a well told story and it was a great movie , definitely worth a watch .
All things truly wicked start from an innocence-Ernest Hemingway	I was so excited my theater got The Boy in the Striped Pyjamas , from the moment I saw this trailer , I knew I was in for a treat . This movie just looked incredible , even though it's a touchy subject with the holocaust , it still looked like it was going to be a great story . Everyone always makes a comment about the innocence of childhood , what it was like to just not have reason , to just go with the flow of things before adults tell you what you have to do . So I watched The Boy in the Striped Pyjamas today and this movie seriously is one of the saddest films I have ever seen , but I felt it was very maturely handled . The actors are great and the story is very touching , to watch these two boys from two completely different worlds who come together just to have fun , be boys , not because of the difference of their background . Set during World War II , a story seen through the innocent eyes of Bruno , the eight-year-old son of the commandant at a concentration camp , whose forbidden friendship with a Jewish boy on the other side of the camp fence . The boys have a great friendship talking every day , enjoying the company . But when the father gives Bruno a Nazi propaganda loving tutor , Bruno becomes confused , is his father an evil man or is his friend the evil one ? Love his country and do his duty or don't judge and just stay true to his friend ? Bruno must decide all this with some scary consequences ahead of him . The Boy in the Striped Pyjamas is a fantastic film , though if you see it , I do recommend bringing the tissues . I couldn't believe the chemistry they had with these two young actors , they worked so well together as these innocent boys who both have no idea what's going on . Bruno doesn't know why his friend is behind fences , and his friend doesn't know why he's there either . The ending is extremely powerful and the story keeps you interested . I do recommend seeing The Boy in the Striped Pyjamas , it's a treasure from
Everybody wants to be a cat !	AristoCats is such a terrific Disney classic that I just loved so much as a kid . Still to this day I can't resist watching it , it's just such a wonderful and charming film with great animation and lovely songs . I really miss the animation films like AristoCats , they had perfect voices not to mention the hand drawn animation that makes it perfect for the family . AristoCats is also very witty and clever , the story was just so wonderful . This film is just beyond irresistible , I think the most memorable moment for me was the cats playing the piano learning the appecio's , lol , it was just so cute with the piano playing and painting . Douchess and her kittens are very pampered in their huge mansion , mainly because their lady is very rich and treats them like they were her children . But when the lady feels it's time to make her will , she leaves everything to the cats and not to her butler . The butler gets angry and takes the kittens on the road and abondons them in the middle of no where . Douchess and the kittens wake up and with the help of a smooth street cat by the name of Thomas O'Malley , they head back home to their lady , but learn the coolness of being a skat cat . The AristoCats is just a perfect Disney movie that I feel is a bit over looked . I would always highly recommend this movie for kids or families , it could be enjoyed by anyone . The songs and story is just memorable . I will always join in for the movies best song " Everybody wants to be a cat " , such a great tune . I also love those dogs that guarded the farm where the cats were abandoned , they were just so cute . This is a terrific film , please watch it , you won't be disappointed .
Very cute and so much fun ! Dr . Suess would be proud	I saw the first teaser trailer for Horton Hears a Who a few months ago , and I have to say that it was a little off putting , it looked kind of strange and like it might be another Cat in the Hat lousy movie , but then they started advertising it a little more and it looked more cute . So I decided to check the film out today and I am really impressed , so far I'd say this is the best animated film of 2008 that I've seen . I remember reading the book as a child , it's one of my old time favorite's , you could never go wrong with Dr . Suess . When it comes to his films being put up on the silver screen , excluding the 40 minute cartoon classic How the Grinch Stole Christmas , other films like The Grinch and The Cat in the Hat have been ultimate flops and horrible . But Horton Hears a Who proves otherwise and is a wonderful film to watch . Horton is an elephant just enjoying life , he's a teacher and is loved very much by the little animals of the jungle . But his life is about to change when he sees a little speck and saves it , inside this speck is a little town of Whoville . The mayor of Whoville has asked Horton to take them to a safe place before his town is destroyed . Seems like an easy enough task for Horton , until an angry mother , Kangaroo , feels like Horton and his speck are a bad influence amongst the children , and wishes to destroy the speck and trap Horton . Horton Hears a Who is such a wonderful film . For a book that you can finish in half an hour , they did a great job filling in other lines and such great jokes . The great thing is there is no pop culture or over the top jokes , they just go old school and make this film fun and original . The actors seemed like they just had a great time getting into character , Steve Carell and Jim Carrey are a brilliant combination , so their voices added a lot to the film . The animation was clever and colorful , it was a joy to watch . I very much recommend Horton Hears a Who , it's a terrific family film and just a fun movie to watch for the afternoon , I think Dr . Suess would be very proud too .
Brideless Groom	The Stooges are back and funnier than ever . " Brideless Groom " in my opinion was probably the best Shemp flick . Shemp has the opportunity to inherit $500 , 000 ( which was probably more than a million dollars compared to today ) from his dead uncle . BUT ! There is a catch . He has to marry someone that day by 6 o'clock . Shemp is a bachelor with not too many admirers , except for one high pitched aggressive annoying singing student of his . But he doesn't want her , he wants someone a little more on the Victoria's Secret model type of women . But obviously he has no choice since he's no Collin Ferrel himself . But when it is printed in the papers that he is to inherit all that money if married , his ex girlfriends are on the " I want my man back " attack ! What a great stooge flick ! This is up there with thewinners of all stooge flicks !
Who better to leave your children's care than in the hands of an alcoholic ?	LOL , I know I stole that line from I love the 70's , but I just thought it was so true and that was my exact thought from the first minute I started watching The Bad News Bears . Now to the movie , The Bad News Bears is one of the funniest movies I have seen in a long time , I almost died laughing throughout the whole movie . I obviously heard about this movie from the show I love the 70's on VH1 , way before the remake with Billy Bob Thorton . It always slipped my mind though when I wanted to rent it , but finally I remembered and I am so glad that I got the chance to see it , because this is one of the best comedies to come out of the 70's . Buttermaker is a has been baseball player and now an alcoholic , he is given the job of a little league coach for the Bears since no other fathers are taking the job . But he's definitely taken back when he finds out that the team he is coaching are kids who are , well , I guess you could say " lacking " in the department of knowing how to play baseball . But he just wants to get paid and get the job over with , but when their first game comes along , the kids get creamed 26-0 , Buttermaker is pressured to drop the team out of the league , but instead teaches the kids how to play and recruits a couple of new kids , a girl who's mother he used to date , and a rebel without a cause . The kids get better in each game , but it's a matter of Buttermaker getting his priorities straight when he lets the game get the worst of him . . . and he's an alcoholic ! The Bad News Bears is just so funny , Walter Matthau was just too perfect for this role as Buttermaker , he was so believable . I think my favorite Bear was Tanner , because the role could have been over done , but the kid did it just right , not to mention his last line of the film is just classic and fit the movie just right . I loved how the film wasn't your traditional your favorite team is always going to be out of no where champions , this was an awesome comedy that anyone would just fall in love with .
Basically to rap it all up : The American Braveheart	Now , I'm not saying this was a bad movie . Actually , I loved it . I'm a big M . S . fan . He's a wonderful director . He knows what he is doing . " Gangs of New York " is very under rated . But I can see some people not enjoying the movie . It kind of depends on what movies you like or what mood you are in . The movie goes into the ACCURATE history of New York . I have studied my history . So , I know what I'm talking about . And the cast did a great job . Again , Leonardo can do a heck of a job when he is put with the right director . I feel like Martin does bring out the best in his actors . The sets and time are beautiful . Over all , like I said , I think it's a little under rated . But I'm not going crazy over it like " Casino " . hinthint This is a great movie though . Give it a chance to get a higher rating .
One of my favorite sequels !	I know that there are a lot of haters when it comes to Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom , it has it's flaws and is by no means the strongest movie of the Indiana Jones series , but I just have so many good memories about this film and still to this day when I watch it , it gives me chills and excitement . The characters are memorable , the script is great , and Indiana is still pulling in the action packed excitement continuing from Raiders of the Lost Ark . The direction , editing , even the special effects are great . You have to love Short Round and Willy , the two new side kicks to Indiana's new adventure . Now I agree , Willy can get a little annoying here and there , but she was just so hilarious in that scene with the bugs and having to save Indiana and Short Round . Plus , Short Round has some of the most memorable lines of the entire series " Okey , dokey , Dr . Jones , hold on to your potato ! " , cheesy , but so funny . Harrison Ford still has Indiana down to a tee , this was the role that was meant for him . In this prequel , we start off in China on a trade off gone wrong with Lao Che , he ends up meeting a beautiful and very high maintence American girl , Willie . They escape together with Indiana's little side kick , Short Round and accidentally without knowing , they've escaped onto Lao Che's air plane . They wind up in India , where they find out about these rocks that can restore the village they're in , also the children have been kidnapped by Mola Ram and Indiana must free the kids and restore the rocks so the village can be safe again . Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom is a fun sequel , I don't know why people complain so much about it . I can understand if people say it's the weakest of the series , but on it's own , this is a fantastic movie . It's one of my biggest recommendations to my friends as well as other film viewers . It just has everything you could want : action , romance , alligators , and heart sacrifices , lol , OK , that sounded gross , just trust me this that this is such a fun movie . It's one of my favorite films , I know that sounds bad , but I just love this film . It's a lot of fun and Indiana and Short Round are just the best buddies to watch argue on screen . This is an awesome sequel , definitely a must see .
" There is no crying in baseball ! "	Oh , wow . This movie was amazing . It's funny , it's dramatic , and historic . I have known this movie since I was a little girl . And I am taking a film class in college and it said in the book that this movie is " overly femineme " I was insulted . I know what feminest is and this wasn't a big " Women rule ! " kind of movie . It was explaining the history of the All American Girl Baseball League in WW2 . I love this movie . There are a couple parts of Geena Davis ' character that drag down a little bit . But not too much . Go ahead and give this movie a shot .
One of the best Disney films	Do remember there was a time when movies were this good ? I know I'm speaking from this generation , but I love these classics . And I grew up around them . Unfortunately I didn't have this on VHS when I was younger . But I saw it a couple times . I decided to buy the DVD and see if I could find a tresure . And I did . " Alice in Wonderland " is a wonderful and charming classic . A definite for Disney fans . The music and animation is great . The characters are very wacky . You just love it . It is one of the coolest fantasy films I've seen . I would highly recommend this to any Disney lovers .
Ah , back when adventure films were fun to watch	Don't you just love Indiana ? Men want to be him , women want to be with him . He's just so darn lovable . Mr . Speilberg is a genous . He can't create a movie without a certain amount of perfection . With his great Indiana Jones trilogy that no one can touch , he's undefeatable . I just wish they could make movies like this again .
An original and fun story	I'm not sure why I picked for a borrow from mom for " Nurse Betty " . I think just because I had heard a little bit of this movie . But I'm glad I did . " Nurse Betty " is an original and clever movie that has humor and a darker side . This was one of Renee's first big one's before hitting it major in Hollywood . I can see why , she is an incredible actress . The scene where she finally realizes what had happened and she's on the set of her favorite soap opera , you can see pain , confusion , fear , and embarrassment on her face . Just to let you in on the movie , she plays Betty . A shy and insecure woman who stands by her abusive husband , she's a waitress , and is in love with soap operas , especially one where a certain cute doctor , Dr . Dave Revell . When she happens to see her husband's murder accidentally in separate room , the murders she notices are two customers she just had , Morgan Freeman and Chris Rock . She then just looses her mind and leaves town after talking to he police and says she needs to find her former fiancée , Dr . Dave Revell . So , she travels along the country to California to find Dr . Revell , and wants a job as a nurse to work with Dave , she's seen the show so many times , somehow she's just awesome at being a nurse when she saves a woman's brother . Despite everyone telling her that she is delusional , she just looks at them like as if they were the crazy one's . When she meets the actor who plays Dave Revell , George ( his real name ) thinks she's just a crazy fan trying to get on the show . She just looks at him with confusion and believes that he and her belong together . Renee was terrific , she was so believable on loosing her mind in the movie . She has come such a long way , and wither you want to admit it or not , she's adorable and a great actress . Morgan Freeman plays one of the assassin's , Charlie , who is the father of the two . He is so charmed and smittened by Betty and while chasing her around the country , he becomes almost just infatuated with Betty to the point where he almost falls in love with her . He and his son Wesley must find Betty when they find out she was there at the murder scene and could give away their identities . When Charlie sees Betty and catches her finally , she's scarred at first , but calms down and they know they have a real connection . It was a beautifully played scene , my opinion is that Morgan gave a stronger performance . He's just great . A surprisingly decent performance by Chris Rock , the son , Wesley . He is so " gun " - ho about just getting the job done in a rush and taking care of business . I loved his comedic performance at the end where he and the gang he's holding hostage by gun point are just watching the soap opera's together . Classic . " Nurse Betty " is a great movie that I'd recommend for a good laugh and just in all a nice honest little movie I think anyone could enjoy .
Just as good as everybody said	Now , I'm still uncertain about the " Best Picture " award , but " Chicago " was absolutely a blast ! I am excited about seeing the musical next time it comes into town . And it's based in the best city in the world ! ! ! What more could you want ? ! Sorry , just a little city pride there . Recently , the newer musical movies aren't as enchanting as they used to be in the 50's and 60's . I miss movies like : West Side Story , Oliver , and Singing in the Rain . " Chicago " brought that all back with a jazzy and exciting feeling . I would highly recommend this musical , it's very entertaining . I can't wait for the real musical ! It looks like a hoot !
A sleek and sexy new type of noir	I was truly surprised by Kiss Kiss Bang Bang , because I'm not a huge fan of Robert Downey Jr . , I mean he's good , but his personal life always got in the way of my view of him . But I have got to admit , this man is truly talented . But it really wasn't just the actors that makes this film awesome , it was the story . I'm going to be honest , I'm still not too sure on how the sister died because it seemed like the story just kept on changing it's mind . But I think it's one of those films you have to watch 50 times to get it . The story was just so entertaining and original . It's the film lover's movie . I loved a lot of Robert Downey Jr . ' s lines , especially , " Why don't we just bring back all the dead characters like they survived out of nowhere ? " This was a great movie and I would highly recommend it for anyone . Now this is what I'm talking about on what we need in Hollywood today !
Punch Drunks	What a great classic by the Three Stooges ! This episode is mainly by Curly . In the beginning he is just an abused waiter , he takes too much from everyone . When Larry walks in just looking for some money by playing in the restaurant that Curly works in , he starts playing " Pop goes the Weasel " . Curly has a snap reaction to the men he is serving , including Moe , and beats them all up . Moe has discovered Curly's talent as a boxer and wants to make money off of him , and he brings Larry along as the second helping hand . Eventually , this leads Curly to the big championship for boxing . From one Three Stooges fan to another : Brilliant !
One of the scariest movies I've seen , period !	I just saw The Descent last night , opening night , and the midnight show ! Great time , right ? Oh , my God , it's the next day and my heart is still pounding like crazy . The Descent is so original and incredibly intense . This was such a gift to horror fans and I'll explain why . Lately , horror movies are bland and are not that original . You know when the scares come and how they are going to come . Despite you truly don't see the monsters until the last half hour of the film , the environment was so well created , the claustrophobia , the tight spaces , the darkness , and the unknown . Not to mention the throwing in some human man eating bats didn't help your nerves calm down . This was the very first movie that I screamed out loud so much . The Descent is one of the best movies I have seen this year and I would without a doubt recommend this to any true horror movie fan . Thanks to the director for giving us a good movie in this world of amateur films .
One of my favorites	When it comes to Disney movies of the now , I'm not too pleased . But " A Goofy Movie " is without a doubt a great one . Goofy and his son Max are two complete opposites when it comes to life . Goofy is a little bit country and Max is a little bit Rock - N - Roll as you would say . Goofy feels that him and Max need some time together in the country . When Max has other plans to try to go to a concert to impress a girl from school . They also have to learn how to deal with each other on the way there . And hey go through a giant adventure to get to both of their locations . This is a great movie . There are a lot of wacky characters that you will love . I would recommend this for actual Disney fans .
A great comedic and southern version of The Odessey	I have to admit , I really was not interested in seeing " O Brother , Where Art Thou ? " . I'm not into the southern theme type of movies nor did I ever get into The Odessey . I'm also in no way interested in Country music ; and George Clooney . But surprisingly , O Brother turned out to be a fantastic movie that I was completely wrong about and am so glad to have given it a chance . The acting and story line is just so great and both my mom and I surprising loved the music ! It's just such a great feel good movie with great comedic moments . This is definitely is worth a watch and a buy for anyone . My favorite moment is the reaction to Jake missing and the boys assume he is a toad ! You'll have to see it to understand , but it's just hilarious !
Sing a Song of Six Pants	Another great Shemp classic that delivers tons of laughs . Even though it's not my favorite , because it seems like Shemp is attempting to steal some of Moe's style , you are still on the floor laughing from the jokes . The boys are tailors in this episode . They are in great debt and need a to find a way to pay back the IRS so they can keep their shop . When they hear about a fugitive with a pretty nifty award , they have some hopes . But seriously , what are the chances they'd catch this guy ? Well , with the three stooges there , of course they'd have a good chance , only they mistake the robber for a mannequin when he is running from a cop . When the robber is in the clear and goes back home , his pants that Shemp removed for a customer are still there at the shop with a combination for a safe with lots of money in it . He decides to go back with some goons , and our stooges get into another crazy adventure not knowing what they got themselves into .
Joe Pesci rocks !	This is the first film I have seen where Pesci is the lead role and he proved to sore beyond what his talents are , he's definitely one of the most under rated actors of all time , I feel like he's Hollywood's hidden secret weapon . : ) I had heard a lot about My Cousin Vinny , I know this was the movie that won Marissa's Oscar and not to mention I heard how funny it was . My Cousin Vinny turned into a very intelligent and great comedic story . It's about two boys who have been accused of murder , with a lot of pressing evidence against them that can get them executed , but one of the boy's cousins , Vinny , is a lawyer , well , just graduated and starting his first six weeks . Not to mention , he's never fought a trial or murder case . Vinny has also brought along his Brooklyn talking fiancée , Mona Lisa Vito . With little experience and getting into a web of lies , Vinny must learn that good arguing is not just what will help , but he also has to learn how to be a lawyer . Joe and Marissa absolutely steal the show . I think my favorite part was when Mona Lisa was on the stand talking about which cars were involved in the murder case , she just got into a fight with Vinny and she refuses to help him , but she does and he kisses her hand and you can tell they made up , but it's just their looks that are just plain priceless ! Everything about this film could make anyone laugh and make them fall in love with Joe Pecsi , he's just so awesome !
Wait , it gets better	My free rental from Blockbuster , it has to be a good movie , right ? The first time I started watching this , I fell asleep . The beginning is very slow paced and you're just kind of wondering what the point is of the film . When I sat down to it again , hoping maybe I was just in a bad mood , it got a lot better towards the middle and ended brilliantly . Kingdom of Heaven was a great movie , even though I felt that it was a little dragged out in some moments . The look and feel of the film makes you feel as if you were there . The actors : they were real , they very much got into their roles you could tell . Even though I felt that Orlando is too much of a pretty boy , you have to admit the guy can act . I feel bad though , because of his looks or press , he might get snubbed by the Oscars , in example : Brad Pitt , Johnny Depp , and Leonardo DiCaprio . Go watch Kingdom of Heaven , trust me , it's worth the watch . Especially with the disappointments of recent war films like Troy and Alexander . No offense to those who enjoyed those films . Like I said , it's a bit of a wait and a little dragged out for my tastes , but it's a decent flick for a night .
The best childhood memories	Recently I was talking to my mom and for some reason this movie just popped back up into my memory and how much I loved it as a kid . The next day she saw it in a $5 . 00 bin at Wal Mart and bought it for me . sob ! , how touching ! Anyways , I still love this movie , I mean , I know it's a movie for kids , but still I think adults could enjoy this movie just as well . Not since C3PO have I love a robot so much ! OK , that sounds silly , but Johnny Five is awesome . Basically , the movie is just about a robot that was meant for army use is struck by lightening and malfunctions . He gets loose into the town where he is found by Ally Sheedy , and she learns that he is more than a robot , but he feels that he's alive . But the army and " Nova " ( the plant that created him ) feels different . Until Number Five and Ally convince Steve Guttenberg otherwise . It's a heart felt comedy that anyone could enjoy . I swear , this movie is definitely worth more than just a 5 . 9 . I know anyone who sees it will most likely agree with me , at least I hope so .
I loved The Mist , the ending still has me screaming !	I saw the trailer for The Mist a while back , I thought it was just going to be a rip off of John Carpenter's The Fog , but after hearing some great reviews on IMDb , I got excited and my boyfriend and I decided to see it tonite . The beginning was starting off pretty slow , so I was thinking that this was going to be an average thriller , but about twenty minutes into the film , things really pick up . Things get scarier , more intense , The Mist had my digging my fingernails into my boyfriend's arm . I don't think we've had a better Sci-Fi film in a long time . I was thinking about how much this movie kind of reminded me of " Night of the Living Dead " , where everyone gets so scared and tense that they quickly turn on each other . It had a very similar ending , it just had me screaming . I can't give the ending away , but believe me , this is a movie not to be missed . In a small town , David , his son , and his wife have just been through a horrible storm . David and his son the next day decide to go to the grocery store , where everyone is a buzz of the horrifying storm . But something even worse happens , a man comes screaming across the street , begging them to close the doors , he has blood on his face , he's screaming how his friend was just killed by a mysterious mist . The mist has now surrounded the grocery store . After trying to figure out a way to save the food , a bag boy is killed by a vicious creature in the mist , the group now knows how serious this is . But things are getting worse with the local religious nut , Mrs . Carmody , she's turning this situation from horrifying to savage and turning everyone against another . But David along with a group full of people know that it's now or never . The Mist is one of the most horrific movies I have ever seen . It had me jumping every second and shaking , the great thing was that it wasn't a movie that had things or loud noise jump out at you , it was so natural , the whole setting and story just gets under your skin . A big round of applause towards the actress who played Mrs . Carmody , I couldn't believe how much I just wanted to jump into the screen and just kill her , but she was that convincing , she gets to you . Everyone did a fantastic job in this film , it's truly horrifying and will get to you . The scene where they find out about the marine knowing something about the monsters outside was one of the most intense scenes that I have seen this year in film . I promise you , this movie is going to be in the Sci-Fi classics for generations to come .
Who is the bigger villain ?	My friend just showed me Hard Candy , I was really looking forward to this movie because I saw that it was nominated for a few awards on the FUSE channel , or something like that for horror movies . She said this is one of those movies that will leave you puzzled at the end and I have to say that I was speechless after finishing it . It was so interesting because like the movie " Clockwork Orange " , the director in some sick way makes you feel sorry for a second for a deranged man who is a pedophile and a murderer . I never really did like those type of movies , but for some odd reason I liked this one . Haylie is a 13 year old girl who meets a charming 32 year old man off the internet , he claims to be a photographer and shoots young aspiring models who are in their teens . He takes her to his apartment , let's her make sexual flirts with him , let's her drink alcohol , and let's her start to do a strip tease , little does he know the joke is on him when he passes out and wakes up to being tied in a chair and has been drugged by Haylie . She won't let him go until he has learned his lesson . . . or will she ? The " operation " scene was one of the most disturbing scenes I have ever witnessed , it was so crazy and insane . But I really loved how intelligent Haylie was , I know that this sounds crazy but she did everything that every pedophile should go through , probably worse . Even though it seems like he should in some sick way get sympathy , you still want Haylie to get the message through to him . This was a great movie , I would highly recommend it , but I warn you it is not for the faint of heart .
Incredibly disturbing	In my 1001 movies you must see before you die book , this documentary was actually recommended . Not to mention that when I saw the movie Monster , that won Charlize Theron her Oscar , I was more interested in learning about Aileen Wuornos , one of the country's first female serial killers . My mom and I have been watching this show called Most Evil or something like that and Aileen gets mentioned quite a bit , she's up there with most male serial killers on how she thought and acted . So I rented this movie curious on her interviews and what she was like before her execution , man , this woman was disturbed , very badly . The only problem I have with this documentary is that it seemed like Nick was a hypocrite saying how everyone was trying to make money off of her , but he did just that by making this documentary . Not to mention that I don't like the fact that he tried to make her sympathetic , I'm sorry , just she did still kill these men . There was only proof that the first killing was a possible self defense , but the rest were just out of blind robbery . I know there are a lot of sick people out there , I don't think she did it for pleasure , but still acting upon what she did was just wrong . Aileen : Life and Death of a Serial Killer is a good documentary , don't get me wrong , this was still incredible and I'm glad that he was able to get these interviews with Aileen . I couldn't believe her last interview , it seemed like she had lost her mind . The only thing that made me feel sorry for her is how long she had to wait for death row , it's like 12 years of torture , but I'm tossed up on the decision of death row . It's a tough subject . But this was a good documentary on her life and what might have led Aileen to act the way she acted . Aileen killed 7 men , lived as a man hating lesbian , a hitch hiking hooker ; did society make her this way or did she just not see the light ? Well , check out this documentary if you wanna find out for yourself .
Incredibly moving , but has such a dark subject	My best friend got to see Reign Over Me in the movie theater this year and she told me that it wasn't that good and that it was more of a rental than the movie ticket , so I decided to wait . But it was released on DVD the other day and I watched it tonite with my mom and I have to say that Adam Sandler has absolutely surprised me with his moving performance in this movie . I think this was a great movie , despite how tender the subject was , the performances and story was breath taking . It deals with the aftermath of September 11th , the family of the victims , and just how to " properly " grieve . The movie is shot beautifully and handled with careful precaution on what could've been considered controversial . Adam and Don were perfect together and really clicked , the rest of the cast did an exceptional job of keeping up with the story . Basically , Allan is a successful dentist , and bumps into his old college roommate , Charlie , who lost his wife and daughters in one of the planes that hit the world trade center on September 11th , 2001 . He's completely abandoned the world and doesn't know how to accept his life now , he pretends with Allan as if they have to get to know each other all over again . Allan wants to help him so badly but has new problems when a woman slaps a falsely accused sexual harassment law suit on his hands and his wife is loosing touch with him . But together they teach each other how to love life once again and be alive . Reign Over Me is an incredibly moving film that I will not forget . I'm not sure if I could watch it , I was crying like crazy during the scene between Adam and Don where Charlie finally tells Allan about his family and what it was like to loose them , Adam's performance was flawless and really deserves a nomination for this movie . I'm not kidding , he has developed so well into a fine actor , he and the rest of the cast made this into one of the most moving drama's of the year . I highly recommend this film , I can't believe my friend didn't like it , but then again , she claims she's an " action " type of girl , sigh .
Kate's Big Break	I am a huge fan of Kate Winslet , she is my favorite actress of all time , simply because she is possibly the most honest . It seems like she has the most natural talent and when she has a role she embraces it , recently I had a message from a IMDb user who asked me if I saw this film and if I hadn't , I should due to the fact that Kate was amazing in it . I also noticed it in my " 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die " book , so I had passed it over at Hollywood Video and figured to give it a look . I noticed also that it was directed by Peter Jackson who is now more famous due to the Lord of the Rings Trilogy , but I thought this film was really over looked and one of his finest . It's incredibly unique , artistic , and disturbing in some ways . Pauline is a out cast at school and she meets the new girl , Juliet , together they find out that they have a major thing in common , a wile imagination . They want to write a story together , they go as far as to call each other by their story names and spend time with each other constantly . But the parent's concerns grow more and more as the girls become a little more . . . " obsessive " of each other . Juliet's parents wish to send to her Africa to live with her aunt , but Juliet and Pauline do not want to let go of each other , and Pauline sees only one obstacle keeping them from seeing each other , her mom . So they devise an evil plan to get rid of her mom , permanently . Heavenly Creatures was incredibly unique and an amazing film . I couldn't believe my eyes watching this film , it was so interesting to watch , especially being in these girl's minds and imagination . Kate and Melanie had great chemistry and Peter Jackson made this film into his own . I would recommend it for movie buffs and definitely if you want to see how Kate got her start , she was amazing .
Disturbing	This movie was so incredably disturbing . I couldn't shut my eyes during the film . Robbin Williams delivers an awesome performance that he should've gotten nominated for . " One Hour Photo " is a great film , but like I said , disturbing . Robin Williams plays Sy , the photo guy . He has been developing photos for years , in particular for one family . He sees how happy they are in these photos . He wants to be part of their family . So , he starts to grow an obsession to keep them happy . The film is very interesting . I would recommend .
Billy Bob's Break	I was watching I love the 90's with my sister last night and the mentioned Sling Blade , I remember trying to watching this when I was younger , but I couldn't get through it . Figuring now that I'm a little older to give it a chance and I'm glad I did , I just watched it last night and I was extremely impressed with the fact that this was Billy Bob's first movie , not only did he act in it , but he also wrote and directed it as well . It was like Forrest Gump meets Silence of the Lambs , it was a movie that kept your nerves up and your curiosity going into what would happen next . Karl is a slow man who has just been released from the mental institution for killing his mom and her boyfriend when he was a child . When he is released into town , he has no where to stay , but then he meets a young boy who he befriends , the boy has no father and asks his mom if Karl can stay with them , she agrees to it . But their lives are far from perfect , they have an extremely abusive man in their lives , Doyle , who threatens their lives on a daily basis . Karl wants to protect them , but it may lead him back into the life that he was just told he was " well " from . Sling Blade is a very well acted movie that despite it's length , it keeps you going . The characters are so well thought out , it's hard to choose who was the break out actor of the film . But Billy in his first major role , he was just amazing , he looked so calm and relaxing , but yet you didn't know what he was going to do next . John Ritter was also amazing , his character was so sympathetic and beautiful . I would highly recommend this movie , it's a terrific dark drama that deserves it's praise .
So that's how Michelle Pfeiffer kept her good looks all these years	I didn't know what to expect when I picked Stardust up at the video store , but I just love Michelle Pfeiffer and Robert DeNiro , they're two of my favorite actors / actresses in the world . But after hearing some decent reviews , I figured this would be a film worth looking at . I think in some ways this is the new Pricess Bride for a new generation , we've been needing a good fairy tale movie for a while . Stardust is magical and a wonderful story that will charm it's way into your heart . The cast was so wonderful and a great match . Although I'm going to be a bit traumatized for a while with Robert DeNiro's part for a while , but it's all good . . . I guess . . . since he's already proved that he's a man's man . . . OK , moving on . Stardust is a wonderful family film that I'm sure will be a classic for generations to come . Tristan is just a hopeless romantic looking for the hand of the fair maiden , Victoria , but she's a bit of a brat with high standards and says that if he captures a fallen star that crashed into the Earth that she will marry him . He goes for it and finds out that the star is a person , Yvaine , who is a beautiful girl , she does go with him with promises to get back home . But there is one problem , she's a wanted lady , she will restore youth to three ugly and evil witches and also if captured , by some greedy brothers , will be rewarded with the king's crown and kingdom . But Tristan and Yvaine face a mighty adventure and fall in love with each other . Stardust is a wonderful fairy tale that doesn't over do anything and is just lovely to watch . But I tell you , Michelle Pfeiffer is just like the most beautiful woman who is almost in her 50's ! How does she stay so perfect ? ! I think this movie was more of a documentary than a film , lol , just kidding , but she does look amazing in Stardust and does a chilling performance . The cast looked like they had a lot of fun making this film and they made the movie so entertaining . I would recommend Stardust very much , it's a terrific family film and a classic for ages to come .
" Don't you think there is more to this life than being really , really , really , ridiculously good looking ? "	" Zoolander " is a hysterical movie that has non-stop laughs and endless memorable quotes . I'm not kidding when everyone had told me that " Zoolander " was one of the funniest movies they'd ever seen , so I had to give it a chance . I'm really glad I did . Ben Stiller and Owen Wilson give a parody on male super models that is beyond tears of laughter . Ben Stiller plays " Derek Zoolander " , a 3 time " Male Model of the Year " award winner , when his streak of wins is stopped by Owen's character , Hansel , he starts to doubt his career and wants to go back home with his father and brothers as a mine worker . He pretty much fails due to the lack of his being used to high maintenance type of environment with clear air and less , well , work . When his father tells him that he's no longer part of the family , Ben gets the offer of his career or so he thinks . Will Ferrel plays Mogotu , an evil model agency owner who is trying to kill the prime minister of Molesia so he can continue to have children make his clothes . He figures people would assume that Derrek has lost it with his career so he can easily frame him and brainwash him into killing the prime minister for him . When a journalist played by Ben Stiller's wife , Christine Taylor , Matilda finds out about this , she tries to save Derrek by hiding him " where no one would know he's there " , hence at Hansel's house . Hansel is very forgiving and confesses that he was wack and Derrek was his inspiration to be a model and Derrek claims his wack of being jealous . There they have strong tea and learn of the lacking in Matilda's love life and why she hates models . Hansel playfully says " I think we should get naked . . . don't talk , just give into the power of the tea " . Followed by a very strange but amusing orgy where Derrek just happens to fall for Matilda . But Derrek will NOT miss a show and there is a certain " relax " ing music that will cause him to kill the prime minister of Molesia ! Can he make it past the beautiful celebrities and save the day ? Ben , Owen , Will , and Christine work perfectly together in this great comedy about male super models . This movie has non stop laughs and you'll immediately buy it when you see it . If you can't laugh at this movie and it's amazing rounds of cameo's , I don't know what's wrong , because this movie doesn't deserve to be under a 7 . 0 . Trust me , this is a great movie !
Not my favorite Mel Brooks film , but still a classic	I think in some way you can just get a few laughs from the film . Sometimes you see jokes that get overused . Especially from Mel Brooks . While I admit that the guy is a genius , he can over do it with the jokes . But if you are a history nut , you'll find a lot of good humor in here . I think the reason why it has a rating lower than 7 . 0 is because most people don't get it . Besides the over used jokes , you get a few decent laughs out of this . I would recommend it for Mel Brooks fans . Otherwise , I'm not sure if anyone else would really enjoy it . At least by today's comedy level , it's a bit dull for others . Just try to have an open mind with it . You never know what you may find .
Brings up a lot of questions , Oliver did a great job , and best of all he did his homework	Most of these movies are really not well researched or planned out well enough . JFK and the Kennedy family is a very tender subject that has been shoved down our throats since the day it happened . Even though it happened 22 years before I was born , I feel like I knew for the minute I came out of my mom , I knew the day that Kennedy was assassinated . " JFK " is a well executed movie . The acting , directing , and editing are phenomenal . Kevin Coaster was absolutely amazing . Even thought this movie is a lot to sallow the first time you see it , the second time is a little better . I really did enjoy this movie and would recommend it if you have time on your hands .
So much better than " Alien "	Big improvement ! ! ! Oh , thank God ! I actually stayed awake during this film . I had so many doubts , so many many many doubts about renting this movie . I wasn't really into the first " Alien " movie , and I thought it was highly over rated . I still think that , but " Aliens " is a better made and better thought out movie . Even though there are still a few questions of mine that left unanswered , I did like this movie . Do I think it deserves to be in the top 100 ? No , even though I did like it , it's still a little over rated . There are better movies , but some people just see some things in movies that other's can't I guess . But I would highly recommend this movie still , because it is a great action movie . And highly above all , the WOMEN KICK @ SS IN THIS FILM ! Yay !
Some of the most exciting car chase scenes since The French Connection	The other day when I was looking for a movie to rent I came across Death Proof , I wasn't interested in seeing it , but my boyfriend got excited because it was Quentin Tarrentino , and he's a huge fan . So we rented it and while I was expecting to hate it , it turned out to be the complete opposite ; my boyfriend hated it but I loved it . I thought it was one of the most unique movies I have seen in a while . While the beginning was typical Tarrentino where we have pointless dialog and trying to get into characters that are hard to understand why we are supposed to like them , the film then picks up when Kurt Russell enters the scene as one of the scariest and most realistic villains , Stuntman Mike . He is one of Hollywood's best secrets , he always manages to bring in a great performance and makes the story turn into something incredibly interesting . We start off with a few girls who seem to be famous , they do billboard covers and are just spending their evening at a bar with some close friends . We then are introduce to Stuntman Mike who is creepy , but comes off as very charming and pretty safe , he gives one of the girls a ride home , but kills her in his " death proof " car and then kills the other girls in a horrible car accident . Since it seems like a typical accident , he is let go after killing all the girls . But he doesn't know what is coming to him when he messes with the wrong group of girls . I have to say that the last car chase scene between the three girls and Mike was a classic and will not be forgotten in my book . Despite how strangely this movie was shot , we start it off as looking like a bad 70's movie , then into black and white , then into color , and then into a modern looking film , the story was fantastic . I'm looking forward to renting Planet Terror . I heard that it was better than Death Proof , so that's gotta be good , right ? Well , hopefully , I don't want to be disappointed , but Death Proof was excellent and I would recommend it to anyone .
It's a " Splash ! " of good times	Batman , the best superhero of all time is finally in techni-color . And is coming to a DVD near us . Sorry , just had to get that out , I mean this movie leaves you will a cheesy goodness that is Batman . I know a lot of people always criticize and make fun of the series , but I don't understand how anyone could hate this ? Yeah , it's a complete turn around from the original comic books , but it's just non stop laughter and even the actors were aware of that . You just have to love the sprays that Batman has , " Shark repellent " ? LOL ! Not to mention the fun villains who are just so " filthy and diabolical " . I am in love with this script , I mean , it's so cheesy , but it did it on purpose . Like when Batman finds out the true identity of Catwoman and Robin says " Holy Heartbreak ! " . Or my favorite scene that is possibly my favorite scene of all time , where Batman has a bomb in his hands and is trying to get it out of people's way so they won't get killed , but no matter what he keeps bumping into the same marching band in the streets or finding people in the way , and finally he just sighs and says " Some days you just can't get rid of a bomb " . CLASSIC ! Please , watch this movie , it's beyond hilarious , just pay the $5 . 99 for the movie !
A nice intense thriller	I have to admit , this movie kept me on the edge of my seat . Mel Gibson and Gary Sinise are incredible actors . That is what really struck me about the movie . The story is a little unoriginal , but for it's time it was very exciting . I've seen quite a few " Ransom " type of films . So that's why in some ways I knew what might happen next . The action is great though . The acting is very wonderful . Mel and Rene were so perfect together on what would happen to the parents of a kidnapped child . That's a tough role to pull off . Because , how doe you react not knowing where your child is ? I would highly recommend this to adults . The children , you might have to cover their eyes , this is more of an adult thriller though . So , if you liked the movie " Trapped " , you will definitely enjoy " Ransom " . It's one heck of a ride . Good job to Mel and Gary !
Better than " Hannibal " , but not up with " Silence of the Lambs "	But it was pretty damn close . " Red Dragon " was a great movie to watch . I have to admit that I had my doubts . I heard some bad things about this movie from my friends . I had bought the movie for my mom , and she said just to give it a shot . I'm glad I did . " Red Dragon " goes back into the roots that " Silence of the Lambs " did . It had high action and drama . I was very impressed . And Anthony Hopkins does a great job as his most famous role as Hannibal Lector . I really have to say that I didn't stick to my friend's opinions . This was a great movie . I would recommend for the " Silence of the Lambs " fans .
Under rated	Come on , are you telling me that this wasn't a good Dracula film ? This brought excitement and romance back into the idea of Dracula . Frank made Dracula into his own and became the perfect cast for the dark prince . When I was younger , I wanted this guy to be my boyfriend ! LOL ! But he was just that effective . The story takes some different turns and isn't too close to Bram Stroker's novel , but still has high entertainment . Dracula still comes to buy Carfax Abbey in England by Jonathan Harker , which the actor scared me because he looks so much like my dad , but instead of keeping Jonathan as a prisoner , he is invited to a party with Jonathan and his fiancée Lucy's , that's right , Lucy , not Mina , family with her friend Mina who happens to have two little puncture marks on her throat . When Mina passes on , Dracula makes his move onto Lucy and falls in love with her . But of course Van Helsing has something else to say about that and will destroy the fiend that killed his daughter , that's right , you heard me ! Mina is Van Helsing's daughter in this one ! Well , anyways , I would recommend this Dracula movie . It's one of the better must see's for Dracula fans !
A very good story about the " mad monk "	I have to say that I was very impressed with the story of Rasputin . It was very accurate . Allen Rickman was amazing in the story . He is such an incredable and under rated actor . The whole story is great if you like to stick to accurate history . I wasn't too sure about the love story between the wife and Rasputin , they were mostly rumors . So , I didn't think it was necessary to add into the movie . " Rasputin " is a great movie to watch . I would highly recommend if you are into history . Especially Russian history or into the World Wars . Trust me , it will not disappoint you .
One of the best romantic comedies I've seen	Hugh Grant and Julianne Moore are a great duo in this comedy . I cannot believe that this movie is rated 5 . 3 , I was laughing my head off . And I can name 10 people off right now that said they were dying of laughter from this film . Yes , it is a little silly at times , but if you enjoy slapstick , this is the movie for you . Hugh Grant plays Samuel . A handsome and successful man who unexpectingly finds out that his girlfriend , Julian Moore , is having a baby . Of course he has his doubts about the baby while his girlfriend needs his support badly . It's a great movie . The only thing I can say is that Robin needs a little work on the accent .
Is Hollywood actually getting something right this year ?	It just seems like I'm seeing a bunch of good movies that have been released in 2006 : The Departed , The Illusionist , United 93 , and now The Prestige , an exciting magic drama with exciting stars : Christian Bale and Hugh Jackman . The Prestige is a well thought out story that keeps you guessing from beginning to end , has great acting , fun magic , and a fantastic look and feel . My friend thought the film was too long , but I thought it was extremely well paced . Believe me , this is a film not to be missed . The Prestige is about two rival magicians Rupert and Alfred , Rupert has showman appeal that gets the audience excited and Alfred has the gift of how to perform magic very well . They go back and forth pulling horrible tricks on each other that not only causes hurt feelings , pain , and death . They also are playing with their lovely assistant's , Olivia , heart . How far will they go just to see who can out magic who ? I absolutely loved how much Rupert and Alfred played off each other , you couldn't even choose a side because both of them were complete jerks , if that's even a strong enough word for it , but they did it so well . I loved how they kept trying to figure out each other's secrets and outwit each other in every one of their shows . I have got to tell you that Rupert's shows are so much fun to watch on the screen ! There are some good laughs and cries throughout the film and I am not going to be surprised at all if this film is nominated during Oscar time . I would highly recommend The Prestige , one of the best films of 2006 !
The ultimate spaghetti dinner movie	God , who doesn't remember the romantic scene of the Lady and the Tramp ? Ah , spaghetti has never been as sexy . OK , OK , I know that this is Disney . This is one of my favorites . It's a great one . As far as Disney movies go , I would recommend this . Disney lovers have to watch this . It's very naturally addicting . And the music is so wonderful to listen too , and the characters are so lovable . This is one of the best Disney movies by far . I miss movies like this . Just see this movie . It's just too good to miss . This is for the kids and the adults . I would recommend it for a family night for sure .
Smoke-can !	Oh , man , is The Mask funny ! I'm talking about rolling on the floor funny . Jim Carrey definatly can pull off any stunt in making a person laugh . POSSIBLE SPOILERSStanley Ipkiss is a man who can't really get what he wants in life . A great looking girl , a smooth attitude , an awesome apartment , and a wonderful career . Once he discovers the " mask " , he becomes everything he has ever wanted to be . But when he ends up robbing a bank before a gang can , he messes with the wrong people and ends up in trouble . Great movie . Only one problem , I can't breath anymore ! I'm still laughing .
A little short , still worth a watch for fans	Whew . I remember when I wanted to see this in theaters , and not one of my friends wanted to go . So , I figured I'd wait until video . Then it was playing on HBO and me being the ditz that I am , the movie starts with a little scene in Poland , so I thought it was the wrong movie . But my cousin told me that that's how the movie started . So , I knew my mother bought it on VHSshudder . So , I sat down and watched it . I was impressed . I always loved Rouge from the cartoon series , but now I'm a fan of Storm in the movie . Fancy computer effects . Which I'm not a big fan of , but they did need it . And a great all-star cast complete the film . I wish it were a little longer , but I guess that is what the sequel is for .
What if you could predict your death ? Would you prevent it or let it come ?	I finally decided to give the Final Destination movies a chance , I didn't want to see them when they were released because of the actors , just a bunch of Dawson Creek teen drama TV actors , and I figured the movie would probably suck or be a Scream rip off . But today I decided that maybe I should give these movies a chance , I heard from a couple people that they were pretty good . I apologize to the writers and director of Final Destination , because this was one of the better horror movies I have seen in a while . Basically , Alex and his fellow students , including four teachers , are going on a field trip to Paris , but Alex has a horrifying nightmare of the plane crashing horribly and exploding killing everyone . Right before they take off , he screams and tells people to get off , but only 6 follow him , one of which is in a fight with him , one of which believes him , one of which who was late for the flight , one of which was a teacher comforting him , one of which was his best friend , and one of which is the girlfriend of the guy who is in a fight with Alex . The plane explodes , killing everyone , thinking they're safe , Alex realizes that they were meant for death and it has a pattern , but it's a matter of playing Death ! Final Destination is original and a terrifying story that brings up the interesting subject of fate and destiny and if you make it or things should happen naturally . Not to mention the pretty cool death scenes that occur in this film is any horror fan's dream of watching . This is one of the better horror films of this generation and I'm looking forward to the next sequel .
Movie Sign !	Mystery Science Theater 3000 , anyone who is a fan of this show is a friend of mine , it's a great show for any movie buff . The reason why the show is so loved is because it does what we always want to do or say during a really bad movie . So naturally the successful show that was created on Comedy Central wanted to do a movie about our favorite sarcastic robots . Was the movie a success ? Not so much , but doesn't mean that this movie is bad at all , in fact , it's a great one to watch . My only disappointment ? I think was just the fact that this was just like any other episode , there was nothing really too special about it to make it stand out as a movie . Secondly , I've seen funnier episodes than this movie . I'm not dissing the movie , because this is still completely worth the watch . Mike , Tom and Gypsy are startled to find Crow deep in the lower sections of the Satellite of Love , pounding at the hull with various digging instruments . He has convinced himself that he can tunnel back to Earth , he tells them . Checking his digging calculations , Crow discovers that he already knew this was inevitable : Look at that , Breach Hull , All Die . Even had it underlined ! They return to the Bridge , as Dr . Forrester announces that he is about to make them watch the 1955 classic sci-fi thriller This Island Earth in an attempt to break their wills . In Mystery Science Theater 3000 tradition , we are in for a good ride as they mock this silly clichéd 50's sci fi film with no mercy . I do love the film that they picked This Island Earth , while in some sense it is a fun little sci fi classic , probably the first movie that I saw before I ever saw it on Mystery Science Theater 3000 , it still is really cheesy and fun to make fun of . I just love at the end where the alien is trying to protect our two main characters away from the monster and for some odd reason he just lightly blocks the two people away from the monster as Mike points out " ACTING ! " , lol ! Obviously fans of the show are going to see this movie , it's a little girt to the fans I think in some sense , I wish they had a few more cameos and could've gone a little bigger , but it's all good . For those who don't know the premise of the show , this is a funny movie , the people that I've introduced the show too have mixed reviews , a few loved it a few didn't really like it , so it's one of those movies you'll have to decide for yourself .
Makes you want to go the distance and hit someone :	Rocky II is the second installment in the Rocky series . One of my friends told me that I have to see the Rocky movies because they are very good and every movie fan should just see them . I'm also just interested in seeing what the hype was about . I actually was very surprised on how much I enjoyed the first Rocky . It had entertainment and was very inspirational . Rocky II dove a little more into what Rocky himself is all about . Obviously , from the first Rocky movie , he was just a punk off the streets who just got " lucky " according to Apollo , his competitor . In Rocky II , he and Apollo decide they want a rematch to see who is the real winner and fighter of the world since it was a draw match from the first Rocky . Also , Rocky marries Adrien and has a son with her . I did enjoy Rocky II , and I'm very much looking forward to the third one . I heard Mr . T is the star ! :
Predictable , but I loved it	Honestly , I wasn't expecting too much . I thought " It's probably just another teen movie " . But it had a lot of laughs and fun jokes . I am becoming more impressed with Lindsay Lohan as an actress . I think she is extremely talented . The movie also just reminded me so much of my old high school . Everyone was so separated in their own groups , and everyone always wonders how does the popular girl get popular if everyone hates her ? I really enjoyed this movie . I thought it was very funny and enjoyable . Although it is a little predictable , trust me , you'll still get a lot of laughs from " Mean Girls " .
" You're tearing me apart ! " - best delivered line !	Two years ago in my film appreciation class , my teacher brought up Rebel Without a Cause and how influential it was and how it broke down walls to reveal the trouble in the a teenager's life . James Dean gives the performance of a life time and truly broke everyone's heart with his untimely death . I can see why he was so loved now . I felt deep down though that this was a wrongly titled film . Because Jim , despite rebelling against the system , wasn't really a bad kid . He actually was a great one , he just needed someone to listen to him . One of the most heart breaking scenes in that movie for me was after the tragic drag race , Jim tries to tell his parents what happened , you'll have to watch the movie to understand . But he wants to do the right thing and his parents are telling him one thing and another , but refuse to listen on what had happened to him . I felt his pain when you feel like everyone wants to make you better , but no one understands what's wrong and won't listen to you . This is a fantastic movie that I feel should be on the top 250 . It was one of the most influential movies that sparked a whole new generation and future as well on troubled youth . But a little warning , Rebel Without a Cause is by far the best teen rebellion movie .
Probably my favorite Star Wars movie	I know this is the lowest on the top 250 films of Star Wars , but this was a film I enjoyed even more than the first two . It has a very powerful ending with answers that you have been searching for since the first Star Wars .
What a terrific acting movie	I consider myself lucky that I got to view a wonderful movie with two marvelous actors . " Kramer vs . Kramer " was great to me because I think I could relate to it . Unfortunately , my parents are divorced . Even though I was older than Billy in this movie , I felt his pain and confusion . Having two parents who you thought were happy and end up hating each other is the worst . Through this movie , actually , I think it made me realize that my parents are people too , and they had as just much pain as my sister and I had . Back to the movie , this was a good one . Yes , it's dated and Meryl and Dustin are very young . But I would recommend this for a lot of people , because I think most can relate in some way . There are funny , sad , happy , and relieving moments that are carried away terrificly by these great actors . It's a good movie and deserves more credit than a 7 .
An excellent documentary	Although , yes , it is biased in my opinion , I thought Michael Moore did a great job . I was impressed with his views and he stated the facts clearly . He did some great editing and showed the heart breaks of the families who have lost someone in the 9-11 attacks or the war on Terrorism . The film itself is great to watch . Especially if you are not for George W . Bush being president . Than this is the film for you . And me : D As a film , I have to say that it was good to watch . I'm not sure if all the facts are true . There is always another side to the story . That's the only thing that I found as a flaw in the film . Other than that , I would recommend this film .
A disturbing and intense thriller	You've pretty much read it in my comments , I am a huge fan of M . S . and R . D . But honestly , I watched " Cape Fear " because I bought " The Simpsons " 5th season on DVD , and I had no idea that the Sideshow Bob episode where he tries to kill Bart was based on this movie . So , I knew I had to rent this movie if it was good enough to parody on " The Simpsons " . And it was very disturbing to watch . Robert DeNiro is one of my favorite actors , and he completely freaked me out in this film . Especially the scene between him and Juliette Lewis . Even though in some ways this film is done a little over the top , it all adds together very well . I was very impressed with this film and would recommend it to Martin Scorsesse fans of course . Even though I wouldn't say this was his best work , it is one of his best thrillers though .
Remember when we used to want to be big ?	Ah , those were the days . All of us have done it . Wished we were older , so we could do more . Well , in the movie " Big " , a child's wish to become big comes true . Josh is a boy who is not tall enough to ride a roller coaster at a theme park . Humilated in front of a girl he likes , he goes to a " fortune telling " machine , and wishes he could be bigger . He wakes up the next day as a man . When everyone he knows throws him out of their lives , except his best friend , he goes into the adult world . Just by knowing what kids want in toys , he becomes a success in a toy company . He also manages to get a girl wanting him ( even though he is completely oblivious to it ) . All he wants is be himself again .
Despite not being my favorite Hitchcock film , it's still an incredible piece of work	The first thought that popped into my mind after completing the film was that it felt like a play , one set only and a mystery plot . Not too much editing needed to be done and the whole plot kept you in interest . It even lost you into the story of the two men who committed murder , and you became interested to learn more about the characters and their development , which I thought was clever . I watched the making of the film afterwards and I found out that most of my predictions were true and that Alfred wanted the film to have these type of feels . The man knew what he was doing and he is a master at suspense and mystery . Not to mention he knows how to cast a movie , James Stewart once again has won my heart with his heart gripping performance . This is a terrific movie , folks . Watch and learn from the pro's .
Before " Scary Movie 3 " there was " Airplane ! "	I saw " Scary Movie 3 " , and a lot of people told me that some of the jokes were like " Airplane " . So , I figured I'd give it a shot . I was laughing on the floors . I couldn't believe what " Airplane ! " got away with . The jokes were very crude , I mean before there was " Scary Movie " or " Not Another Teen Movie " , there was " Airplane " . I didn't think that really crude jokes came ' till " American Pie " and " There's something about Mary " . I enjoyed " Airplane " . It's a first of it's kind , and a laugh fest . Leslie Nielson was histerical . And there were a lot of familular faces I noticed in the film . Which was also a lot of fun . I would recommend it . If you enjoyed these movies I mentioned , you'd love " Airplane ! " .
Like the scariest unreleased episode of The Twilight Zone	I grew up watching The Simpsons , one of the episodes that is a classic favorite of mine has a little parody of Village of the Damned they called The Bloodening , lol . I always thought it was supposed to be a parody of Children of the Corn , but then I was watching 100 Scariest Movie Moments on Bravo and Village of the Damned came on and then the light bulb went on that this was the story the Simpsons made fun of . But I was so memorized by what scenes they were showing that I had to find this movie and watch it , I finally found it online last night and I absolutely loved this movie . This is one of the creepiest horror movies I have ever seen , so many people who always told me that creepy kids scare them , I never understood why until I saw this film last night , it gave me nightmares . Granted , I know that it's cheesy and you can easily MST3K your way through it , but watching this in the dark with those creepy glowing eyes is an image I will never get out of my head . In the small English village of Midwich everybody and everything falls into a deep , mysterious sleep for several hours in the middle of the day . Some months later every woman capable of child-bearing is pregnant and the children that are born out of these pregnancies seem to grow very fast and they all have the same blond hair and strange , penetrating eyes that make people do things they don't want to do . Village of the Damned is a very memorable film and just scared the living day lights out of me . I would highly recommend this for any one who truly appreciates film , because it is cheesy in some aspects , I think it takes a certain person to really understand this film and in the time it was made . The way these kids looked was just beyond disturbing , they looked alike , sounded alike , and acted alike . Those voices were so light , care free , it just got into your head that these kids had no boundaries and that's what's scary , you know that if a child has those powers , there would be no adults in this world . Village of the Damned is a terrific horror film , I highly recommend it , watch it in the dark , it's a lot of fun .
Can't help but laugh at a funeral	Sadly , I've been to way too many funerals in my short life , every funeral I've been too is always sad and traditional , when I saw the trailer for Death at a Funeral , I knew this was a movie I had to see . I rented it a few days ago and I was so glad that I watched it , because sometimes I think that out of an extremely depressing situation , we need a good laugh just to relieve something in our bodies . The thing about Death at a Funeral , all these situations that happen are just horrible , but they made it into just this whole predicament into something worth laughing at . The actors just looked like they had the ultimate time making this film and enjoyed telling the story and that makes the movie so much more fun . From the beginning to the very end this movie is non stop in the laughs . Daniel is about to go through the toughest day , he has just lost his dad and is having the funeral at his house . From the first minute , the undertaker has brought the wrong corpse , and relatives are having a hard time getting there . When everyone finally comes and the right body is there , things go wrong again , Simon , a boyfriend of Sara ( Dan's cousin ) , takes what he thinks is Valium , it's actually hallucinates and wonders onto the roof naked . Daniel bumps into a short man , Peter , who is claiming that he has slept with Dan's dad and will tell everyone if he doesn't give him money . The situations jut get wackier as the film continues . Death at a Funeral is just so funny , it's horrible situations , but you can't help but laugh , especially at Simon's situation with the hallucinates , him in the bathroom with the toilet paper was just priceless . The actor that played him , played him off perfectly and didn't go over the top with the situation that most actors would've made unbelievable . I highly recommend this movie , it will give you a guaranteed laugh , I mean , during Daniel's eulogy , if you don't laugh , I think you'll have to have your funny bone checked .
Oneof the scariest movies I have ever seen	OK , I admit it , I'm shallow , I didn't know about this film's existence until I saw Quarantine and went onto IMDb . com and saw all these complaints on how Rec was so much better . So I went onto youtube and found Rec just to see what it was like and the strange thing is , I saw Quarantine in the movie theater , I wasn't scared , I watched Rec on my computer and it scared me to death . I think the story was a little better explained in this version as well as it was just more intense . I feel weird saying that because Quarantine is the exact same movie just it's done in English , but for some weird reason this movie just scared me even more . I think I also liked the actors a little better in this movie because they seemed stronger and reacted more naturally . Rec is one of the scariest movies I have seen in a long time and I really wish I checked it out earlier than I did . Angela is a TV reporter who does a quick little night segment on firefighters and what their jobs are like . Everything starts pretty boring and it seems like they're not going to get a great story . . . until there is a disturbance call . They all go to this apartment building where everyone is downstairs complaining about noises coming from this apartment with an older woman , the fireman and police go up there to find the woman very disturbed and mumbling . All of a sudden the woman tries to attack them , the police and firemen along with Angela go downstairs to find out that they've been locked in , the police outside have quarantined the building . The woman viciously bites one of the firemen who turns into a rabid zombie who starts attacking the others . The virus is spreading and there's only so much time before they all descend into this scary nightmare . I would highly recommend Rec for any movie fan , this was just a fun movie to watch and one of the better horror films I've seen . Quarantine was just the American version with a few deleted scenes that are not in Rec , but I felt that Rec explained itself better . Why and how the virus came to be as well as where the mysterious tenant is and what he did . Like I said , I do feel silly , they're both pretty much the exact same movie just in different languages , but I just enjoyed this movie was just better . So if you do get the opportunity , I do highly recommend going on the net and looking up this movie , it'll give you the heebee geebee's . . . OK , that was lame .
A pleasant surprise	The Hunchback of Notre Dame is a surprise of a pleasant Disney film , in my opinion this is the last real great ( hand drawn ) animated Disney movie . I was eleven when this film was release and I saw it in the theater , I was just absolutely in love with this film . Still to this day I like watching it . It has such a beautiful story , a bit different from the original Hunchback of Notre Dame book , but they had to make it family friendly . Not to mention that the soundtrack to The Hunchback of Notre Dame is just so beautiful and awesome , the best since The Lion King . This is just such a charming and magical film , I can't see someone not falling in love with it . Quasimodo is a disfigured man who was raised by the evil and cruel Frodo who only keeps him to save himself from eternal damnation . One day Quasimodo goes down to the big fair and bumps into a beautiful gypsy , Esmeralda , who doesn't judge him by his looks but by his charming and kind personality . But when she saves him from the crowd's cruelty , she is a fugitive on the run now , but Quasimodo helps her and falls in love with her . But a new soldier , Phoebus , has also fallen for her and she has for him too , but they all must stick together in order to survive the cruel flames of Notre Dame . The Hunchback of Notre Dame is just such a great film to watch , it's a great family movie for the afternoon . It's such a touching story , it could even bring a few tears to your eyes , and some fun comedy to uplif the story . I loved the old man who is constantly in a trap of some sort and his line every time he gets free " I'm free ! I'm free ! " , then he gets back in the same situation " Dangit ! " , that was funny . The cast was perfect and seemed to have a lot of fun with their characters . I highly recommend this film , it's a great Disney treasure .
This is the year for Cate's Oscar !	When I saw the trailer for Elizabeth : The Golden Age , I was a little baffled , I know this is going to sound so bad , but I was thinking " Oh , great , the sequel to Elizabeth , Elizabeth : The Search for More Money " . I mean , they ended the movie Elizabeth so well , why did they need another movie ? But after Cate's Oscar nomination , I decided to go ahead and see the movie and just see if it was any good , I watched it yesterday and I have to say that Elizabeth : The Golden Age was really good . I'm a little surprised by the rating of a 6 . 9 , I thought they presented Queen Elizabeth with the great honor and strength that she deserved . Cate Blanchett was astonishing , her performance was just incredible , it's almost like this was the role that was just meant to be her's . She brought Queen Elizabeth to life like no other actress has before . Queen Elizabeth has taken rule to England , she is still childless and unmarried , the war between the Prodestents and the Catholic's is still going strong , since Elizabeth is a known Prodestent , many people do not want her on the throne . Mary Stewart is Elizabeth's cousin and many people believe that she should have taken the crown and will assassinate Elizabeth just to get their way . For once Queen Elizabeth's emotions are starting to show , she's frightened and worried what is going to happen to her and her kingdom , but with the reassurance of the adventurer , Sir Walter Raleigh and old friend , Sir Francis Walsingham , she feels the strength to go on and go into war with the Spanish . Elizabeth : The Golden Age is a remarkable film and I was really impressed with how they presented Elizabeth , she was so strong and admirable . The film itself is great as well , while it's not strongly accurate , the story is terrific , I know they had to give it a little something to grab the audience's's attention . But the sets , the costumes , the characters , Clive Owen made a great performance out of Sir Raleigh , he was the perfect choice . I would recommend Elizabeth : The Golden Age , it's a terrific movie and I hope Cate gets the Oscar she very much deserves for the performance of Elizabeth .
One of the best action movies ever !	Mel Gibson and Danny Glover are two of a kind ! Many action movies are typical and predictable , but this was original and fun to watch . I think especially since I was thinking of Mad TV's parady of this movie , it made it more enjoyable . I'm looking forward to the sequel and hear that Joe Pesci is in the third one ! : D He's so cool ! OK , I'm sorry , I know that people are not going to find this comment useful , but this stupid system requires ten lines or more . So , anywho . Yeah , I'm sorry , I can't come up with much more . Trust me , I have seen this movie . But how can some users on this website write more than two paragraphs ? ! It's crazy . There , I think that was ten lines .
Ying and Yang	After the overwhelming nominations at the Oscars that Pans Laberyth got , I have to say that I was definitely fascinated with this film and wanted to see what it was about . When it went to rental , I couldn't help but notice the R-Rating , which seemed a little odd . But I now know why , this was definitely one of the darkest fantasy films I have ever seen . That's why I said Ying and Yang , it seemed like it had a very dark side , but also a slightly brighter one where this girl travels into her own fantasy world where she is a princess . This film had fascinating characters , a very interesting story , and was beautifully shot , so I can see where it stands on the top 250 and got the Oscar nods it got . Ofelia , a little girl , is going with her pregnant mother to a city in Spain , where there is a huge war going on . They are traveling to see the very sadistic and cruel captain of the army , the mother has married him and he is now Ofelia's new father . But Ofelia comes into a world of her own when a fairy brings her to a Labyerth in the garden where she meets a faun and he tells her that he is her servant , and he can help her bring back her thrown to the kingdom by doing a few simple tasks , well , not that simple . But it makes it all the more difficult with the world outside , where her father is murdering others and doesn't care about her mother , only the son she carries inside her . This was truly an interesting film , in some ways it was a breath of fresh air due to the fact that we don't really have any films like this any more . The cast , the set , the story , the language was so beautiful , I was very impressed . I would recommend this film , not so much to just anyone , it takes a certain type of person I think to fully understand what this film and story is , not judging , just saying I can already name a few people I know who wouldn't enjoy this movie because they wouldn't understand it . But if you are a fan of film , the art of it , I think you'll enjoy this masterpiece .
Just as funny as I expected it to be	I am a huge Robert DeNiro fan , so I knew I just had to see this , I had heard so much about this movie and how funny it was . So I watched it the other day and I have to admit that this was so much fun to watch . I admit that it had it's predictable moments , but over all , I think the jokes worked very well and the cast was just so wonderful to watch . Robert and Ben click very well , they were so great in making the scenes just so intense , like that first dinner they have together , Ben describing how he grew up on the farm and had to milk a cat in order to save a runt kitten , was just so funny because we've all been there where we got caught up in a lie trying to figure a way out of it . The story is very funny and something everyone has to go through in their time of meeting the parents . Greg is a nurse who is about to purpose to his girlfriend , Pam , but when she tells him first of how her sister got proposed to and how her fiancée asked her father first , Greg feels obligated to ask him first before asking Pam . They go to meet her parents , Jack and Dina . Jack is a former CIA agent who is not ready to let his baby go to Greg . He's gonna make sure that this is a trip that Greg will never forget and is gonna torment him the whole way . The only problem I have is that it seems like all the good parts that my friends told me about , well , that was it . So it wasn't as surprising , but I still admit that I laughed . I loved that scene where they're playing volleyball with Pam's ex and how the team just won't give Greg a break how how he's playing and then he . . . well , you'll have to trust me , it gets better . Meet the Parents is a fun comedy that I'm sure will have you laughing . Robert and Ben are terrific together , I hope they do another comedy soon .
Renewing a " terrific " story and this was " some movie " : P	I couldn't wait to see Charlotte's Web , it was my favorite book as a child , the first book I ever finished on my own , and I loved the cartoon . It was always the sweetest story about the two most unlikely of friends who were there for each other at times of need . I was a little scared with the live action version , but it actually worked very well , the story was done beautifully and was very faithful to the book . It's a story that I could never get sick of , it's just the perfect movie for any family . Back to the movie , I'm sure that you'll enjoy it , just because of how it was made , not only that , but the cast was great and put a lot of character into their voices , it was so lovely . Fern is a little girl who saves a runt pig from being killed by her father , she raises the pig who she names Wilber . She loves him so much , but a few months go by and her parents want her to move on , she doesn't want to get rid of Wilber , so she sells him to her uncle right across the street . She visits him as often as she can , but her parents worry , Wilber is left on his own to make new friends , and he finds himself befriending a spider . But when the other animals inform Wilber of his doom as future bacon , Charlotte , the spider , promises Wilber to get Fern's uncle to change his mind by writing words in her web describing how wonderful Wilber is and bringing success to his farm for publicity about the web . It's a classic tale that no one could ever dislike , I am surprised by the rating , I really thought that people would have loved this movie , it's a great one . I have to admit , I actually cried a little during this movie , it's very effective and just wonderfully done . I think you should watch this film , especially for a family night , it's such a touching movie . I'm sure you'll get a few laughs too , it's funny , charming , sweet , and just a good film .
Pleasantville meets Night of the Living Dead	OK , I didn't know what to expect when I saw the cover to Fido , honestly when I came across it in the video store I was tempted to rent this movie , but nothing about it really grabbed my attention . But when I was looking around in Netflix , they were advertising this like crazy if I liked " goofy " scary movies , so I figured to just give it a shot . I'm so glad that I did watch it , this was just a great movie , it was absolutely hilarious and so charming to watch . Like I said , it's Pleasantville meets Night of the Living Dead , it's just a great concept , what does happen after a mega zombie attack ? As we see in another zombie comedy , Shaun of the Dead , they have fun by making the zombies left over as " handy " citizens . This is a very overlooked horror / comedy movie , I think a lot of people were just so blown away with Shaun of the Dead that this got the boot . But it's a great story and the cast was perfect and made this into just a really funny movie . In a 1950s alternate universe where radiation from space has turned the dead into zombies . This radiation still plagues humanity , as all those who die after the original contamination turn into the undead . In order to continue living normal lives , communities are fenced with the help of a governing corporation named Zomcon . Zomcon provides collars with accompanying remote controls to control the zombies ' hunger for flesh so as to use them as slaves or servants . In the town of Willard , a housewife , Helen , buys a zombie in spite of her husband Bill's zombie phobia . Their son , Timmy , befriends the zombie , naming him " Fido " . One day Fido's collar malfunctions and he kills their next door neighbor , who turns into a zombie . Timmy " kills " the zombified neighbor . When a pair of local bullies are blamed for the missing neighbor , they capture Fido and Timmy . Helen comes and rescues Timmy and Fido from the bullies and they try to forget about the whole thing . Several days later , the neighbor's body is found and the murder is traced back to Fido , who is taken away to Zomcon where the public is told he will be destroyed . Timmy learns through a friend that Fido is simply working in a factory at Zomcon . Timmy sets out to rescue him with the help from his neighbor with a zombie girlfriend in hopes to get Fido back . I really do highly recommend this movie if you get the chance to see it , it's so silly but a lot of fun . Billy Connelly did a great job as Fido and really brought , no pun intended , a lot of life into the character . I think the scene that made me laugh the most was when Timmy has to burry the old lady that Fido attacked and killed , his last words to her were so funny , " you weren't really nice , but you liked flowers , so ? " and he buries her in the garden . Not to mention the neighbor with the zombie girlfriend , sick , disturbing , wrong , but classic laughs . I still love how even though this is like the Leave It To Beaver-esquire type of world , there still is a lot of gore in the movie . So if you do have a chance to see Fido , take it , I promise some good laughs .
Robert De Niro just keeps getting better and better	Now , I don't think it's Scorsese's best . But it is one of the finest . It's a very unique plot about how far you would go to make in show biz . Martin is a king of directing , as Robert is a king of acting , do you want me to go on ?
An epic triumph	What a good movie ! I have seen both this and the two towers in the theater , and may I say that that it is a one of a kind experience . My mom said that Star Wars was the best she saw in the theater . And I guess Lord of the Rings is our generation's Star Wars . It's impossible not to see this movie . You have to watch it . Otherwise , you're missing out on a wonderous movie . The Lord of the Rings : The Fellowship of the Ring
For an Ashton Kutcher film , I got a more than a few laughs	I know this film is getting a bad rep , but I enjoyed it . I really laughed a lot at the film . Yes , the script is a bit amateurish . And the story gets a little stupid here and there . But it seems to me that a lot of the people who hated this movie didn't put their guards down . I have the same problem to sometimes . I don't like Ashton or Britney . I think that they are amateur actors . They have a hard time acting . And that's why it came so natural in the film . That's how they really are . I'm glad I just decided to sit down and watch the movie . Let go and watch it . It has it's very funny moments . As for the 5 . 0 , I can let go . Some films , it just takes time I guess .
Hairspray is a BIG hit with me ! : )	My mom and I saw Hairspray today in the theater and I have to say that Hairspray is the best musical of the year and actually in the past few years at that . I haven't enjoyed a musical this much in a long time . Hairspray was so uplifting and was wonderful to watch , it really makes you feel good about everything , that being different from what is described as " normal " is OK and can be hip . The music and dancing were terrific , I actually bought the soundtrack after we left the theater . John Travolta actually made a good looking woman , lol , but he , Christopher Walken , Michelle Pfhiffer , and Queen Latifa were sensational ! I couldn't believe all the talented people that were in this musical . Tracy is a plus sized teenager in the 60's , a hard time of racism and harsh acceptance . Her and her friend Penny love this show , the Corny Collins show , Tracy auditions for the show , but is snubbed immediately by the manager , Velma . But with the encouragement of her parents and a cute guy , she tries again and makes it on the show and is an automatic hit ! But Velma and her snotty daughter won't let her steal the spot light , and are also snubbing the African Americans from having an integrated show . With the help of Tracy's friends , they prove that anyone can be a star and shine . Hairspray is without a doubt one of the best films of the summer , I highly recommend this movie to anyone , even if you're not into musicals , this is just such an uplifting movie . I loved the John Waters cameo in the beginning , the director of the original movie , Hairspray . This was a fantastic film and was brilliantly made , I'm sure that you'll have so much fun watching it .
Over the top , but nevertheless a terrific movie !	The reason why I think I enjoyed this movie so much was due to the fact that I was in theater and participated in the drama club , we studied this play and I always wondered how it would be acted out since we never got the chance . I didn't know there was a movie about the play and my mom thankfully had it , not to mention Elizabeth Taylor and Richard Burton ? I slipped it in immediately and was so impressed with this terrific drama . It's about an aging couple who has had one too many drinks in the night after a party , you can tell they have a lot of hidden anger towards each other . But it isn't until a couple that Martha , played by Taylor , invited over that brings out all their anger and hatred of each other . Not to mention some horrible tragedy strikes when Martha learns of what has happened to their son . I'm not sure exactly how to describe the plot , because you could go into massive details , like I said , I studied it . But I really enjoyed this dark drama , like I said , if you don't enjoy over the top acting , you might want to steer away from it . But it is a great movie and has some dark humor in it that lightens the story somewhat . But please , take a good look at this movie , it's a good one .
The best action movie in over a decade	I remember the first time that I saw First Blood , I thought it was going to be a typical silly action movie , but it turned into one of the best action movies I had seen . I remember hearing about the Rambo sequel which was at the time titled " John Rambo " with " Rocky Balboa " , I saw Rocky and was very disappointed , so I was assuming the same was going to be with Rambo . But after some promising reviews , I went ahead and saw it today and this is seriously the best action movie in years . I couldn't believe how incredible this movie was , it was brutal , terrifying , but had a great story . Sylvester Stallone still has it , and is incredible , I can't believe how great he looked and how he still hasn't lost his edge . The reason why this movie worked is because I think he really understands John Rambo , this movie could have never worked without his touch . John Rambo lives in Vietnam as a guide of the river , he makes a living collecting snakes for a sport for the villagers . There is a huge war going on , a civil war , where the Vietnamese are brutally killing villagers if not taking their boys and making them into soldiers , and violently raping their women . When a peace group who is convinced that they will change everyone's ways asks John to bring them into the war , they go into more than they expected when they are captured . John has to go back into action to save their lives and bring them back home safely . Rambo is seriously the best film that I have seen so far in 2008 , the only thing that was disturbing to me is that the civil war is not far from the truth at all and how brutal it was , but it was nice to have a good guy to root for and have hope that some people can regain their faith in the goodness in people . I was thinking today how weird it is , this is a genuine action movie , the one people have been waiting for years to have , and it took the old school to bring back that exciting feeling . I highly recommend Rambo , believe me , this is an excellent movie and I can't wait to have it on video . Sylvester is back and he's better than ever , Rambo is still awesome and so much fun to watch .
Best Animated Movie Ever !	The long awaited Simpsons Movie finally opened today , this is the day that Simpsons fans have been dreaming about since there was talk about a Simpsons movie . I just saw the opening show today and I have to say that the Simpsons still have me laughing after all this time . Even though it just felt like another episode , the Simpsons have pushed the envelope a little further into total controversy as the day that the Simpsons show debuted on FOX . If you are a Simpsons fan , I'm more than positive you are going to love the Simpsons Movie . It had great laughs , shocking moments , and just such a fun atmosphere that anyone could have fun with . Springfield is under a watch for global warming , they find out about their lake being polluted and how it will destroy the town unless they stop dumping toxic waste into the water . But Homer pushes it when he dumps more " crap " into the lake and it causes harm to animals . The EPA places a dome around Springfield to protect others from entering it's harmful environment , but leaves the whole town's population in the dome . When they learn that it was Homer's actions that caused this , they go after him and the family , but they escape through a hole in the ground . They go to Alaska , but find out that the EPA has deadly plans for Springfield and the Simpsons have to stop them . Even though I was expecting more , I was extremely happy with what I got . It is like a typical episode in some ways , but I love the Simpsons , I'm going to be a fan ' till the day I die , so I just naturally love this film . I know that sounds biased , but other Simpsons fans can relate , I'm sure . The Simpsons movie is an absolute blast of great laughter and fun , it even gets emotional , I smell Oscars ! Lol , just kidding , but please have fun and watch the Simpsons Movie , I'm sure you'll love it .
A well thought out horror story that could be true one day	Now of course the battle between good and evil was brought by Stephen King . But , the whole story about the " Super Flu " could come true . And that is the most terrifying part of the story . Several stars to the cast and crew who did a great job on " The Stand " I'm sure that it took a lot of work . Over 5 hours to kill is all you need . Of course if you're like me with " I can't take it anymore ! I need to stand up ! " , then just watch one episode every day .
God ! So , that's what they went through to make this movie ?	It kills me to know what these actors had to put up with . And the excellent special effects . So , people , it wasn't strings that held the bed , it was a machine to those who think it's cheesy . It's disturbing , it's freighting , and just fantastic . The Exorcist , it's more then a scary movie , it's a master piece of history . And anyone who says it's funny or boring , look at again and not as the scariest movie of all time . Just think for a few minutes after the movie . Because you know for a fact that other horror movies have copied so badly off of this film . And it would not be named # 1 scariest movie of all time for nothing . And if you watch this making of the exorcist , you'll relize that you were very harsh on the film .
Even better than the first , and the first X-Men rocked !	Wow . I just watched " X2 " , and may I say that I am very very impressed . Everything about this movie is a flawless victory . And I can't wait for the next " X-Men " . I didn't think they could do it in the end , but I was wrong . Watch " X2 " ! Now ! Now ! Now !
Inspirational and hard-hittingno pun intended	Of course , I must see " THE BEST PICTURE OF 2004 ! " , I think every movie fanatic has too . Man , cry me a river , this was a good movie ! I have to admit , I had my doubts . I'm not really into boxing movies , exception : Raging Bull . But so many people told me that this was a great movie and it was . Hilary Swank , what a performance ! This movie makes you feel as if anything can happen . " I got what I needed " she says to Clint Eastwood . Clint and Hilary together were absolutely perfect . They made a great team . Clint really did a great job expressing his doubts at first but believing in Hilary , it was truly inspirational . Morgan Freeman is a remarkable actor . I'M SO HAPPY HE WON FINALLY ! Even though I feel sometimes his roles are typical , he's the disrespected man , but has knowledge and helps people , he's really good at it . I really enjoyed this movie , but just to let you know , it is a tear jerker . So you might want to have a box of Kleenex next to you . This is a wonderful film that everyone should watch . You'll feel better after you watch it , I know that sounds silly , but I'm sure that everyone else who watched it will agree with me .
An awesome monster classic	Frankenstein is one of the best movies of all time , it's certainly memorable and is just such a pleasure to watch , I always make time to watch this movie . There's just something so special about it , I think this was the first monster movie that gave the monster a soul and one that just very much touched our hearts . But what made Frankenstein so scary was how this poor creature was just left alone and never knew his own strength , leading him to do some horrific things . Frankenstein is a beautifully shot movie and the black and white made it just more scary and imaginative . Boris Karloff is just an amazing actor and pulls in a timeless performance and is still remembered to this day . Frankenstein is a movie that will never be forgotten and will always deliver a good cry , laugh , and scare . Dr . Henry Frankenstein is a scientist who has accomplished so much in his life , but there is one thing on his mind to what his next experiment would be , but he wants to re-animate dead tissue , in English , he wants to see if he could bring people back to life . He creates a creature from a hanged criminal , but he doubles the creature in size , making him incredibly strong . The experiment works , but when the creature escapes , he goes onto the village to meet others . He meets a sweet young girl who plays with him , but when he plays with her back , he doesn't realize his own strength and accidentally kills her . The village goes after the creature and they want to destroy Henry's projects along with the monster . Frankenstein is truly a remarkable horror movie , the first Frankenstein movie , when you watch it , I know because of fancy effects of today's horror movies have taken place in what is true horror , which I believe is how a movie could be so intense . Frankenstein is an intense movie that will definitely have you on the edge of your seat and realize how just an incredible performance can pull in a horrific but also loving monster that'll make you scream and cry at the same time . If you are a true movie fan , you have to see Frankenstein , the ultimate monster movie classic .
A very cute Disney movie , one of my favorites !	The Great Mouse Detective is one of my favorite Disney films of all time , it's also one of the most under rated in my opinion . I think just because I love the story so much and it always brought up good memories , this was the funniest Disney animated movie I had seen at the time . It's just such a cute film , it has fun animation , catchy songs , and such a touching story that anyone could easily fall in love with . My parents and I watched this movie together all the time when I was a child , still to this day , I don't mind sitting down to watch it , it's just that much fun . A young little mouse girl and her toy shop father are celebrating her birthday , but her father is quickly taken away by a rotten gang of mice who are led by a giant rat , Ratigan , who is planning to over throw the queen and become leader of the mouse world . Olivia , the daughter , goes to Basil of Baker Street , he's a mad detective who has been chasing Ratigan for a long time . Along with the help of an average mouse , Dr . Dawson , Olivia , and Basil go after Ratigan to make sure that his plan fails . The Great Mouse Detective is such a cute film . I'm very sure that you'll enjoy it , it's one of my personal favorites , I really do think this is one of the better Disney films and is an under rated treasure . I just loved Basil , his madness was just so funny and enjoyable to watch . I also loved Ratigan's song of why he is so great , not to mention how he thinks he's a mouse is just priceless . This is a fun family film to watch , I highly recommend it .
A terrific and disturbingly truthful movie about the porno industry	The 70's , a time of freedom and just getting down those groovy nights . There was also , believe it or not ( directed to my generation ) a porno industry . The cheesy pornos we all can enjoy and mock for their vintage moments . Well , Boogie Nights is the down and dirty truth of what it's like to not only be in the business , but what it does to you and your reputation . How low can you sink even though you promised yourself not to get into that kind of trouble . The acting is just phenomenal , Mark Walhberg without a doubt stole the show with his grisly and naive performance as Dirk Diggler . He wasn't alone though , Burt Reynolds did a great job as a father figure to Dirk and leading director in the business . Julianne was so terrific trying to be a mother figure and a sex goddess at the same time , and Heather could actually act in the film ! I'm not kidding , she did a good job . I know I kinda cut this short , but the whole film is just a great one . Please , I highly recommend this movie for a watch .
Priceless !	Let's face it , the Police Academy movies have a few sequels that no one is really interested in . But when it comes to big laughs , there is nothing like the original Police Academy . I had not seen this movie in a long time , so I figured I should give it another watch before commenting on it . May I say that I was just on the floor laughing with the original humor and wit that only the original can hold . I just loved Steve Guttenberg , whatever happened to that guy ? : ) But every scene he had was just so brilliant and laughable . I especially loved the scene where he and a hooker were hiding under the podium where the leader was giving a speech about the academy , and the hooker performs some interesting acts on him in front of the crowd ! Like I said , this movie is priceless and will have you laughing from beginning to end . Enjoy !
Is it possible for a sequel to be better then the first one that was also a great movie ? !	Yes ! No one has done this since the Terminator films or Godfather . I couldn't believe my eyes watching this film . For the past two years my father and I went to the theater twice to see these films . And the Two Towers was amazing . My father and I have tickets to the next Lord of The Rings ready to go ! Like I said of the first one , this was so awesome to watch on the big screen . It's amazing . Even if you don't like the movie , you will love Gollum ! Trust me ! I can't wait for the third Lord of the Rings ! Frodo is almost there ! The Lord Of The Rings : The Two Towers
If you liked " American History X " , you'll love " 25th Hour "	25th Hour is a movie that I just came across one day and decided to rent it , I noticed that it had Edward Norton in it and figured that I would just give it a shot . I absolutely fell in love with Edward Norton when I saw American History X , he immediately became one of my favorite actors . I couldn't believe how much I fell in love with this movie , it's honestly one of my new favorite movies , it's intelligent , intense , and greatly written . Edward Norton pulls off an incredible performance and truth be told I couldn't believe he didn't get a nomination at least for this movie , I don't know 25th Hour just didn't get enough notice , but this is a great movie and a very moving story . Monty Brogan is walking the streets of New York with Doyle his dog . He goes to his old school where he meets up with his teacher friend Jacob Elinsky and discusses a get-together at a local club planned later that evening . Elinksy then calls Frank Slaughtery who is working as a Wall Street trader . Brogan then goes home to his girlfriend Naturelle and they discuss the fact that this is his last night before prison . Brogan has been busted for being a drug dealer , and he is looking at seven years in Otisville prison . Brogan visits his father James at his Irish pub , and his father blames himself for Monty getting into the position he's in . Brogan and his father then discuss whether it was Naturelle who tipped off the police about him . The group later meets at the club , Jacob runs into one of his students , Mary who we see before complaining to Jacob about the grade of one of her papers . She goes with them into the club . Frank and Naturelle also discuss how Monty got to this position , but Frank accuses her of not doing anything because she got used to a fancy life . Monty and his partner Kostya then go to speak to a group of Russian mobsters , run by Uncle Nikolai . Nikolai gives Monty some tips on how to survive in prison . Then it is revealed who really was the traitor that tipped the police about Monty . 25th Hour is also the movie that introduced me to Rosario Dawson and I have to tell you that I fell for this girl immediately , she's a great leading actress who has a strong presence on the screen . In fact the entire cast is something to admire in this movie : Phillip Seymour Hoffman , Anna Paquin and Barry Pepper . Then we have this incredibly intense scene that is one of my favorite in movie history , when Edward Norton is in the bathroom and goes off blaming everyone else for his problems then finally breaks down and just says " F you , you had it all and you screwed it up " , that scene went from funny to intense to just plan sad . This was also the fist movie that also brought up the pain and aftermath in New York after , the opening scene was in fact showing the lights that represented where the towers once stood and you really felt the pain and emptiness of New York . Honestly I would say this is Spike Lee's best film , it's not bitter or over the top and made this film perfectly . If you have the opportunity to see this movie , I highly recommend that you take it , it's such a terrific story and is one of the most effective of
Scary for it's time , not now . But still it's a classic .	I loved watching all the older scary movies , because I just think it's important part of history in movies , you see what the time was and the mood . What frightened people and why that was , despite Dracula being somewhat of a yawn to today's generation , this was completely new to the people of 1931 , they had never seen anything like it . This was the first actual taken from Bram Stroker's novel Dracula movie , despite Nosferatu that was silent , could not be brought into the accuracy of the original novel . Also this was the first vampire film with sound . Bela made a great Dracula , I always thought it was kind of funny that he had a fear of blood . He made Dracula into the type cast of today with the whole " Blah's " and " I never drink wine " , etc . 1931's Dracula brought nightmares and fear into it's viewers . I hope my generation could understand that , because I think it's important to understand how much these movies frightened our grandparents or great grandparents and why . They don't make movies like this any more , there was no gore needed , just people's imaginations . Whatever happened to that ? I would recommend Dracula any time , it's a classic and I hope it stays that way into future generations .
Disney's most under rated film	Robin Hood is personally one of my favorite Disney movies of all time , it's one of those animated films that gets over looked or over shadowed by other Disney classics , I wish it did get more notice . The animation is great and just has that old feel to it when animators used to draw the pictures , it feels more personal and special that way . Not to mention that this was a great adaptation of the Robin Hood story for the kids . Even as an adult I still enjoy watching this movie , it's funny , romantic , touching , and just very entertaining to watch . How could you not love Prince John ? He is one of Disney's most awesome and hilarious villains of all time ! Granted I know this film can come off as a little corny , but seriously give this movie a chance , it's one of Disney's buried treasures . The story begins as Robin Hood and Little John run from the Sheriff of Nottingham , who has ambushed them with a team of archers . After narrowly escaping , Robin Hood and Little John happen upon the royal entourage which is taking Prince John and his counselor , Sir Hiss , to Nottingham in order to tax the people there . Disguised as female fortune-tellers , Robin and Little John effectively steal all the gold they can carry and run off into the forest , leaving Prince John sucking his thumb in humiliation . In Nottingham , Robin uses Friar Tuck to smuggle the stolen gold back to the peasants . Later Robin sees Maid Marian , she and Robin had once been sweethearts as children , but were forced to part ways when she moved to London . But she is mistaken : Robin can't stop thinking about her . But since Robin is an outlaw he and Marian wait for marriage . Seething with rage , that Robin is winning , John triples the taxes , making the bleak situation in Nottingham even worse . One night , Robin Hood , disguised again as the beggar , learns that Friar Tuck is in jail and will rescue him , save Nottingham once and for all and give Prince John the justice that has been coming to him for a long time . I can't tell you how much I love this film , I think my favorite scene will always be the archery scene . Robin Hood learns that there is an archery contest and the winner gets a kiss from Maid Marian , so he enters and goes in a disguise , and Little John had his back the whole time while getting Prince John to lighten up about Robin being in the contest . I also love Prince John's side kick , Sir Hiss , he's the perfect little sleaze bag tattle tail and we go in Tom and Jerry classic mode when Prince John has it with him and just ties Hiss's body in a knot . This is a terrific Disney movie , just trust me when I say that it's a lot of fun to watch and just enjoy it , we don't get films like this any more .
Very good	" Of Mice and Men " is one of my all time favorite books . I read it in high school and it was the first book I had a major interest in and read again and again after we finished it . The friendship of Lennie and George is so strong and inspiring . I think that's a reason I loved it , because my best friend and I could relate . We'd do anything for each other just like George would do for Lennie . The performances are jaw dropping good and I loved Gary Senise as George and John Malkovich as Lennie . You know that they started out in the Chicago theaters together first ? Sorry , my Chicago pride slips in sometimes . John does something a little different with Lennie from the original black and white version and gives him more of a disgruntled voice with a lisp that sounds close to a child's . In some ways that was a good idea , because Lennie thinks like a child in some ways . But it wasn't that needed , Lennie was just a mentally challenged man , not speeched impaired . The plot is that Lennie and George are always on the run . Lennie always gets George in trouble because Lennie just doesn't know any better . Even though Lennie doesn't give George a break on life , you can tell he cares for him deeply and takes care of him . They go to a farm that is owned by Curly , played by Casey Siemaszko , to work for money and a place to live . They make friends with an elderly man , Candy who isn't well respected . He has an old dog with him that everyone is telling him to shoot because he's getting to old , and this was symbolic of what Candy was feeling , like just because the dog's old and useless , they should just get rid of him . When George , Lennie , and Candy are talking one night they talk about their dreams of going away to a potato field with rabbits for Lennie . This is it , they are going to go live their dreams . But when a flirty girl who happens to be Curly's wife keeps on going around the boys , she happens go to Lennie next where something terrible happens leading Lennie and George on the run again to an extremely powerful ending . This is a great movie and should be shown to everyone . I'm very serious on that because it has such a powerful message of strong friendship and loyalty . There are great performances and a great setting . I think John Steinbeck would be proud !
A new Rocky for the ages !	I wasn't really too interested in seeing Cinderella man , I'm not too into Russell Crowe movies , but my friend convinced me to take a peek at it and just give it a shot , so I figured why not ? Over all , I'd have to say that I have to thank my friend tomorrow , because this was a wonderful and inspiring movie to go the distance . Set during the depression , this movie takes a dark tone to the story , I think that's the thing about this movie that I loved and most others did too . Almost all of the people on IMDb have not lived during the depression , we know that they were hard times , and Cinderella man got to take a glimpse at what it was like to live back then . It was so touching to see this family struggle but stick together . I can't imagine what Renee's character was going through every night not knowing if her husband was going to come back alive or not . This is a beautifully acted and sublimely directed filmed movie with magnificent sets and a terrific and inspiring story . I think anyone could get into this movie , even if you're not too into the boxing flicks , but believe me when I say if you enjoyed Rocky , there's no way in heck that you could not enjoy Cinderella Man , a new inspiring tale for generations to come .
Why isn't this on the top 250 ? !	This is one of the best films of the 90's hands down . Without a doubt this has become one of my favorite movies . I'm not sure why really , I just love it . I think because I read the book and a lot of what happened in real life happened in my little town in Chicago . No names , and my old boss who runs our town grocery store actually knew " Ace " . Again , no names . That was always pretty cool to me , since my town really didn't have much excitement . I guess also because I'm a huge fan of Martin , Robert , and Joe's . When they work together , they create masterpieces . I've read a lot of comments on IMDb , and more than 50 % of the comments are calling this " Goodfells Part 2 " . Is it " Goodfellas Part 2 " , in my opinion , no . Yes , it's very similar situations , but it's not the same plot . It's a little more gory and more bright . " Casino " is mainly about the rise and fall of Las Vegas . When Robert DeNiro's character says " It's more like Disney Land now " . Actually that's true , it's not like it used to be . I'm only 20 , but my mom and dad told me how different the times were in the 60's and 70's . Everyone was more close and wanted to know who you were and how everything was going . Everything is more corporate greed now-a-days . But back onto the movie , it does have gangsta's in it , and with that comes some pretty gruesome violence . Robert DeNiro . No words can describe how wonderful of an actor he is . If you read in most of my comments , you can tell I'm a fan . This movie is actually what made me into a huge fan of his . He's dialog and image is very powerful and you understand his position . You want to love him , even though technically he's a bad guy too , you still think he is so cool . A lot of people I talked too : the guys wanted to be him and the girls wanted to be with him . What a performance , it deserved more praise . Joe does it again being the A$$hole who thinks with his gun and not with his head . Joe as an actor is very remarkable . He's only 5 ' 6 ' ' , but he is so intimidating . His speech in the desert with Ace and the big confrontation . " You want me to get out of my own town ? ! Don't bleep with me , Ace ! " Does he swear in this movie ? Oh , yeah . A lot , we're talking 400 + f-words , guys . But you get past the vulgar language and just enjoy what Joe says and does . The head vice scene and the metal bat scene with Joe is two of the most disturbing scenes in cinematic history . Sharon Stone , what can I say ? What a remarkable performance ! She was very much robbed of her deserved Oscar . I was reading in my " Rober DeNiro : A history of his films " that Sharon over shined both Joe's and Robert's performance . In some ways that is very true . She plays a gold-digging , druggie , drunk , hustling , whore . She is very glamorous in the film though , she is covered in beautiful gowns and jewelery that no guy could ever resist . Her first scene where Robert first sees her and she is stealing chips from a guy who has " hired " her for a night was extremely effective . You can see why Ace fell so hard for her . What a terrific performance in the end . When she screams at Ace " I will go to the FBI ! I will go to the police ! I'm not protecting you anymore ! " , you get scarred and can't help but watch more even though you are sitting on your butt for more than 2 hours . You hate her character so much , you want her to get what's coming to her , that's what makes a terrific performance . When you actually want to make sure that this character gets the justice he or she deserves . Sharon , I apologize , you deserved more praise as well . Martin Scorcesse . One of the greatest living directors of our time . This film was very wonderfully made with great visuals . The soundtrack really adds a lot , I'm telling you , and the theatrical trailer with the song " Gimme Shelter " by the Rolling Stones , what a great feel . Martin has been nominated several times for an Oscar , but they snub him . I think because his films are so violent and typical . But they remain classics . I'm disappointed with the Oscars , this man deserves more . Whew . " Casino " is an excellent movie that I highly recommend for mob movie lovers . Don't compare this to " Goodfellas " , let it stand on it's own . But please , this is not a movie for children in any manor . For the parents , this is a movie that should be on the wait until the later teens . It's very violent , we're talking a head in a vice , a beating with a metal bat ( just to name a few violent scenes , there's more ) drugs , sex , and very vulgar language . This is for adults only ! It's a great movie that deserves very much to be on the top 250 . I'd like to see it in the top 100 , but we'll see .
Excellent film , but Charleton Heston as a Brazilian ?	I just had the viewing pleasure of " Touch of Evil " , it was an awesome film that had nothing but suspense and mystery . Orson Welles seemed to have a gift with films and I'm proud of him standing up for his story . It worked so well and besides Heston , I felt that the cast was perfectly set . Heston plays an ambassador with his wife in a Spanish country , but things start to turn when he doesn't know who to trust . He finds out that there is a man who is smuggling drugs and frames his wife for it . Throughout the story we are just given clues until the exciting conclusion of who's the good and who's the bad . Like I said , another brilliantly executed film by Orson Welles and a true classic that Hollywood is missing today . But I'm sure most agree with me that Heston's Spanish accent has to be the funniest accent in movie history ! And sadly , I don't think that was intentional , but I think Keanu Reeves is off the hook for his cheesy British accent . . . or is he ?
Been watching it for 6 years and it still scares me	I thought for a budget of $50 , 000 , they did a damn good job of making a scary movie . The Evil Dead has become one of the most popular cult classics of all time , especially to horror fans . I remember how I accidentally came across this movie , I just had a gift certificate for Blockbuster Video and just bought this previewed , I thought at first it was kind of cheesy , but it did terrify me . I showed my friend this movie and we went on the internet and couldn't believe all the websites dedicated not only to this movie , but I found out there were two other sequels . 5 friends go on a camping trip and are just looking for the most part to just relax , party , and have a good time together . But there is something wrong when Ash's sister is hearing and seeing horrible and scary things in the cabin . She is loured out into the woods by a creepy voice and is raped by the spirits in the tree's , sorry , I don't know how else to say it . But when the guys decide to have a little fun and play a tape from the previous owner who studied spirits and demons , they raise The Evil Dead . One by one the friends are possessed and kill each other . This is an incredibly disturbing and fun gory flick to watch . I couldn't believe it when I found out that this movie was made with a small budget . Who knew ? I bet Sam didn't and he probably didn't expect the success he has today . I think that's the fun part of movies , sometimes people get your art and sometimes they don't , but you can have a home run sometimes and life has it's little surprises .
Whatever you do , don't fall asleep	A Nightmare on Elm Street , one of the scariest movies of all time , and one of the scariest in the 80's . It also introduced one of the scariest villains of all time , Freddy Krueger , one of the ultimate boogeymen that you know who he is just by his name . Wes Craven brought us one of the most terrifying ideas , what would happen if your nightmares were real ? That if you died in your dream , you died in real life ? He brought us A Nightmare on Elm Street , a low budget horror film that has made it huge in the horror genre's world . The whole concept of the film is just what makes it so brilliant . Not to mention how cool is it that this is Johnny Depp's first film role ? Who knew that that kid was going to be so huge one day , right ? But the entire cast made this into one of the scariest movies that will always bring you a few nightmares on it's own . Tina is a girl who has been having tons of nightmares about a scary figure , a man who is severely burned and has knives for fingers . She's so scared of this man that she asks her friends , Nancy , Nancy's boyfriend , Glenn , and her boyfriend , Rod to stay over . But Tina is brutally killed in the middle of the night , the only witness is her boyfriend , leaving him as the suspect of murder . But when he is murdered in jail , Nancy knows there's something wrong and soon she's having the same nightmares as Tina . Soon she knows that she might be next , no one believes her , until her mom reveals a deep dark secret about the mysterious figure , Freddy Krueger . He was a sick child molester / killer who the neighbors burned alive to keep him away , but now he's after their kids and he's not going to take it easy on Nancy . A classic horror film that's perfect for a sleep over with your friends to watch in the dark . It's such a great film that sparked quite a few sequels and a new icon for slasher films . Freddy Krueger is so cool and extremely scary just for the fact that he's so confident in knowing that he will kill you . He's ruthless , scary , and clever and he's coming to kill the kids in their dreams . A Nightmare on Elm Street is such a great film and I highly recommend it , Wes Craven is an original genius who spawned a new type of terror .
Mmm , perfecto !	Another masterpiece from Disney and Pixar , this year they bring us another family classic for generations to come , Ratatouille . My friend and I saw Ratatouille tonite and we just had a blast watching it , this film was such a pleasure and was so funny and cute . I would say that actually this is Pixar's best work , they have come such a long way from Toy Story , it's incredible . But Ratatouille had amazing animation that was so real , makes you wonder if we'll ever need actors in the future , lol . The story is just so charming and a perfect fit for any family to watch , even just to watch this film on your own , I guarantee you will have fun watching it . Remy is a rat with a special gift , a gift of smell , he uses this gift to cook . He's not just any ordinary cook , but an amazing one at that , but when he gets separated from his family , he is haunted by the most famous chef in the world , he ends up in Paris . Where he finds a restaurant that was once grand and has slipped up when it comes to good food . An ordinary garbage boy messes with a stew in the kitchen , when Remy sees this , he helps him out . Linguini , the garbage boy , accepts Remy and together they create masterpieces and bring the restaurant back up . They must keep it a secret how they create these fantastic foods ; but that gets so much harder when people try to find out how he's so talented . Ratatouille is such a charming Disney / Pixar film , the animation is great , and the story is just terrific . The actors voices were so great and fit the characters well . If you are looking for a film to see this summer , Ratatouille is definitely a recommendation , it's good to know that Pixar is going to keep giving us these great animation films that I know will be considered classics for a very long time . Ratatouille is delicious , I loved this film .
A review from the # 1 Buffy fan	SPOILERS SPOILERS Now that the show is almost to it's end , unfortunally . Well , I figured that I should review over the seasons . 1-6 . This was a show that definatly effected my life and the way I look at it . I laughed , I cried , I almost wished that I could have a gang of friends like Buffy had . That were loyal , and fun . The show's first 3 seasons were the best . It was original . It was funny . It was awesome to see a girl kick ass better then a guy . We also see a very romantic relationship with Buffy and Angel . Something that kept us very interested and kept us watching every show . But in season 3 Angel and Cordelia left , kind of putting us down , but still wanting to watch the show . And going on to anoher show , Angel . But Buffy was still in the lead . As she went to college things changed a little bit . But we were willing to accept . And we lost Oz . Which was depressing for Willow . Spike became " neutered " . So he was not the bad ass anymore . Which lost a lot of interest in the character . Buffy got a new boyfriend , Riley Finn . Which was nice to see her happy again . She has been through a lot . She faced the Master , Spike / Drusilla / Angel together , the Mayor / an assention , Adam , Glory . But finally it came to an end . When buffy's new little sister came , she wasn't normal . Her sister , Dawn , was a key . That could open the gates to Hell . The enemy would cut Dawn and make her bleed over a certain spot and the only way to close Hell was to kill Dawn to stop the bleeding . Buffy claiming the monks that made Dawn made her out of Buffy , Buffy sacraficed herself and jumped and stoped Hell from opening . And she died . Leaving Dawn and the scooby-gang alone . In season 6 , on a new t . v . station , the gang brings Buffy back to life , and a lot of questions are brought up in this season . Spike still has a sexual obsession with Buffy . Giles has left . Willow is gaining more powers . And getting out of control with them . Xander and Anna are engaged . Dawn is depressed . And Buffy is very upset that her friends ripped her out of Heaven . Eventually Buffy and Spike start having a sexual relationship . Buffy keeps it a secret from her friends . Willow gets too out of control with her powers . Xander leaves Anna at the alter . And three geeks , that we used to know from former seasons , have decided to take over Sunnydale . And will eliminate Buffy to do it . And the way the season ends , two of the three nerds go to jail . But one of them is loose , and shoots Buffy . And shoots again and fires at Willow's lover , Tara . Willow gets angry and after trying to gain control of her powers , she looses control . And goes around looking for Warren , the nerd , and will kill him . She saves Buffy's life , and kills Warren . Willow decides to destroy the world . Xander stops her . Tells her that she is loved and that she can change . And that everything will be ok . And Buffy tells Dawn that from now on , she will help Dawn and show her the world that Buffy lives in . Buffy ended the relationship with Spike and told him she used him to make her feel better about herself . So , Spike is upset and wants to return to the badass he was and instead gets a soul in return . Over all , I have to say that the seasons started off strong . And hung on . The last seasons haven't been the greatest to watch . But the show is still my favorite . And keeps on the edge of our seats . I would recommend this show to anyone who loves every genre !
Surprisingly hilarious !	I swear I did not really want to see this movie , it just seemed so lame to me and like it was going to be nothing but potty humor . But recently I watched " Bravo's 100 funniest movies " , and this ranked pretty high , so I think I was willing to let my guard down and see what this movie had to offer . " The 40 Year Old Virgin " is one of the funniest movies I have seen ! I couldn't believe how much I enjoyed it . I think because we felt so much for Steve's character and how pressuring it is in today's world to have sex . Especially for a guy ! All the scenes were just great and so hilarious , like the waxing his hairy chest , I'm not a guy , but I was screaming for him ! That looked so painful ! I think in some sick way I gave guys a few more points after watching that , the things they go through just to make women happy . It's a heart warming and very funny story that anyone could enjoy . We have a new classic comedy that I'm sure my kids will be talking about in 50 years . Let's hope the remake trend won't stick ' til then .
Who doesn't want to do these things ?	I loved " Office Space " and I see many others love it too . I think because we can all relate to it , the beginning with the traffic sequence , I was thinking " Ahh ! I just went through that the other day " . Also when the friends were talking about what they would do with a million dollars and Livingston's character said " I'd do absolutely nothing " . It sounds lazy , but come on , I'd do the same thing . I'd like to stay in bed instead of going to work or school . I think many people would like to do that as well . I loved Milton , he was without a doubt my favorite character . He was just so hilarious and sympathetic . Lumberg , he is so much like my boss , always rather going at other people's conveniences than his own . I loved how Jennifer Anistons's boss kept on giving her a handful when confronted about her " flair " at work . I just felt for all these characters . This is a great movie that should not be missed . I'm serious , do watch this movie . You better be at blockbuster right now !
As long as Dan and John make me laugh , I love this movie	The Great Outdoors is one of the most under rated comedies that I have ever seen ! It's actually one of my hidden favorites , because this is the type of comedy that I love , slap stick . Dan and John make such a great comedic duo in The Great Outdoors , you can't help but laugh hysterically at every scene or be touched by a sentimental moment . I miss stories like this , that are not only heart warming but have a great mix of comedy as well . Chet is a family man who wants to bond with his songs on a camping trip , so he , his wife , and their boys go out to the great outdoors . But an uninvited guest tags along , their rich and snobby cousins Roman and Kate and their two Shinning creepy twin girls . Since Roman likes to live it up , he practically jumps all over Chet's plans and just takes over the vacation ! There are some great scenes like a bat gets loose in the cabin and Chet and Roman decide to take it on themselves . The bat gets onto Chet's face and Roman hits the bat and Chet's face with a tennis racket ! Chet's reaction is just priceless ! And they go to a restaurant where Chet has the opportunity to eat a 16 ounce steak and if he eats the whole thing , the family eats for free , and they do it like as if he was Rocky in his first major boxing match , it was just great to watch . The Great outdoors is one of those great under rated comedies that I'm sure you'll fall in love with .
I just can't stop crying !	I loved this movie so much . It is so well acted and the actors were amazing . Every time I watch this movie I cry , the father / daughter relationship is so touching and wonderful . I would recommend this for daughters and fathers . Or for anyone else .
Even if things were exaggerated , this was truly an amazing movie and inspirational	I just happened to walk by What's Love Got To Do With It in the video store and remembered how much I wanted to see the movie , I am a fan of Tina's , have been since I could crawl . When I was 4 years old I would walk around with a walk man and sing out loud " What's Love Got To Do With It ? " , and my mom would laugh and she eventually told me when I got a little older what the song was about . I still blast and sing the song every time I hear it and understand it's power , afterwards , I wanted to read the book I , Tina and my heart was shattered for Tina and I just wanted to be like her and have her strength . Finally , I saw this film last night and I was blown away by such a terrific performance by Angela and Lawerence ! They were truly amazing and made this film an incredibly biography . This is based on Tina Turner's life , mainly what happened between her and Ike , the utter and horrific abuse that ensued by Ike by his jealous rage of Tina's spotlight . Tina has only one friend by her side that truly defends her against Ike and Tina tries so hard to get away , but Ike won't let her . Finally , Tina has just had enough in an extremely emotional scene , they have a fight in the limo and Tina swings back at Ike finally ! You just cheer and scream for her to leave and she finally gets what she truly deserved , the solo career and utter fame for being a truly gifted star . I have a feeling things were a bit exaggerated in the film , you know , the fights ? But I think almost 25 years of an abusive marriage is hard to get into a 2 hour film , so they had to make you understand the pain Tina went through . Angela did a terrific job , one of the best performances I have ever seen in fact , I was just cheering for her in that limo ! I cried and cheered for Tina , she is truly a remarkable woman and to understand that , please read the book and watch What's Love Got To Do With It .
A film that will never age and you will always have a place for in your heart	What's Eating Gilbert Grape is one of those little treasures that for the most part most people do know about , mainly due to Leonardo DiCaprio's knock out performance as Arnie Grape . But both he and Johnny had this great chemistry together that made what could have been a very boring movie into an extremely touching piece of film that meant more and more to me as I grew up . When I was a kid and watched this film , I just loved laughing at all of Arnie's jokes not realizing why he was so silly . As a teenager I could start to relate to having a little more pressure with a job and school . Then as an adult and having my mother become ill , I could relate completely to Gilbert in his frustrations of just wanting to be young and enjoy his life . I think that's why this film is special to a lot of people , those who have felt the added little pressures in life and makes you think on what's eating at you ? This is the story of Gilbert Grape . In the small town of Endora , Gilbert Grape is busy caring for his mentally handicapped brother , Arnie . His morbidly obese mother , Bonnie has done little except eat since her husband died , and longs only to see Arnie live to the age of 18 . With Bonnie unable to care for her children on her own , Gilbert has taken responsibility for repairing the old house and looking after Arnie , who has a habit of climbing the town water tower , while his sisters Amy and Ellen do the rest . The relationship between the brothers is of both care and protection , as Gilbert continually enforces the ' nobody touches Arnie ' policy . A new " Foodland " supermarket has opened , threatening the small Lamson's Grocery where Gilbert works . In addition , Gilbert is having an affair with a married woman , Betty Carver . The family is looking forward to Arnie's 18th birthday . A young woman named Becky and her grandmother are stuck in town when their car breaks down . Gilbert's unusual life circumstances threaten to get in the way of their possible romance . His affair with Mrs Carver ends when she leaves town in search of a new life following her husbands death , . Becky becomes close to both Gilbert and Arnie and as she talks to Gilbert she begins to unlock some buried hopes , dreams and happiness . Later on , Arnie tries to run away yet again from his bath and in his frustration Gilbert finally snaps , hitting Arnie several times . Guilty and appalled at himself , Gilbert takes the car and runs out without another word , fearing that he is leaving his family just like his father and brother did . What's Eating Gilbert Grape is just an incredibly beautiful and touching movie that will always have a special place in my heart . It makes you laugh , cry , and think about how precious life is . All the characters are relatable or likable in some way . Even in the smallest of all towns where it seems like it's just dead , there is life . That's what this movie is about to me , everyone has a story and everyone has an experience to share . This is just a terrific film , quality acting and a heart felt story , I very much recommend that if you get the chance to watch it . If anything for Leonardo DiCaprio's incredible performance and Johnny Depp singing to him " Match in the gas tank , boom boom ! " .
Incredible effects for it's time , I was impressed !	I was curious to see all of the Alfred Hitchock films , especially his famous one's . Because they are so well used in parodies and are very inspired by many up coming directors of today . Alfred has really never disappointed film appreciators , he was a master of his picture . He brings us a dazzling and well acted picture " Vertigo " . Probably his second most famous picture , it's about a detective , John / Scottie ( as his acquaintances call him ) , he has a fear of heights . When a man asks him to look out for his wife because he feels that she is in danger , John falls for her in the process . But when she " commits suicide " off of a tall tower , he feels there is no reason to go on . Except when a year later he meets a " look a like " . I won't give away any more because this ending is a shocking and great one ! You won't want to miss this incredible picture !
One of the best sci-fi movies ever !	I remember several years ago in my film appreciation class , we were learning about the 50's , our professor had mentioned how many sci-fi films were made with Russian villain undertones as well as the cold war . We watched some of The Day the Earth Stood Still and this film just jumped at me , it was so different than any other film I had seen . I thought it was going to be so cheesy and lame since it was a 50's film , but after watching a little bit of it , I didn't realize the strong message it held . I remember in Terminator 2 there was a line that I still hold true to this day " It's in your nature to destroy yourselves " , that maybe it's not all technology that will destroy us , but we are our own worst enemies . The Day the Earth Stood was before The Terminator , just like Metropolis was before this film , but these are the best stories and it's like watching a history lesson on film about the time and feel of the 50's . An alien spaceship has landed in Washington , D . C . , but it's not what you think with the " take us to your leader " type of thing , rather a human like alien comes out offering input on what is going on in the universe , but he is immediately attacked by the humans and taken hostage . His name is Klaatu , he tries to explain several times that he's not here to hurt anyone , but the humans don't trust him . He escapes and goes to a family , since no one knows what he looks like , they think that he's a regular man who just needs a place to stay . He stays with a family and they show him around , they think he's a little strange but very polite and nice , but when they learn of his true identity , he tells them of what his intentions are to mearly warn Planet Earth of it's impending doom . The Day the Earth Stood Still is a true classic , I know there are a lot of young people who complain about the ending , how it's so anti-climatic , but I feel that it's a perfect film and I am so ticked off that it's being re-made . But I guess we will have to see what the film will be like , who knows ? It might be good . . . yeah , right , sorry , was just trying to be nice . But I highly recommend you watch this movie , it's a true classic that has a strong message , has great actors , and fun effects . It's fun to watch these films , I wonder if they realized while making this film back in 1951 that they were acting out their own culture and history .
A very dark , beautiful , powerful film	I was about 9 when I saw this in 1994 , and I loved it already . And as I grew up and watched this film more and more I understood it better . It's very beautiful yet dark film about death and justice for victims . And when you watch it , there can be no way no one could hate this movie . They may not understand . Or maybe this wasn't their kind of movie . I think this was the first movie that I could look at the violence as if it were justified . Because if I could honestly say I'd do the same thing if I were in the same situation . I can't help but cry at the end . It's very powerful . And moving . Brandon Lee's death , has to be the most disturbing fact of the movie . But I think he would look at this film today and be proud of his work . His performance is wonderful , his best , and devided him from his father's shadow . This a wonderful movie . Not a movie that you should watch with your kids . Unless you don't mind violence and sadistic , sick people . But if you watch it , believe me , you will not be disappointed . R . I . P Brandon Lee 1965 -
One of the greatest American films ever made	In my film appreciation class back in 2003 we had watched a clip of On the Waterfront and I was hooked , I had to see this film . I did a paper on Marlon as well for the class and everyone told me the paper was excellent and if I had seen On the Waterfront , unfortunately I couldn't find it anywhere , not even for a buy at a store . Finally Hollywood Video had it and I rented it without delay . This was an incredible film . I'm going to talk about my favorite scene and most would agree Terry Malloy and his brother , Charley in the car . " I coulda had class . I coulda been a contender . I coulda been somebody , instead of a bum , which is what I am , let's face it . It was you , Charley . " . It just broke my heart because I think would could all relate to it , an adult letting someone down and being the typical bad seed because of who you are and where you come from and your roots . That scene in my opinion is the best acted scene in film history , period . The love story between Edie and Terry was beautiful and so real . Edie's brother is murdered and Terry didn't commit the murder , but he was apart of it and she doesn't know . He knows though and how could he tell the woman he loves that he helped murder her brother ? She does forgive him , which I loved because I think they needed each other to get away from all the bad things going on in their lives . The whole story is just heart breaking and a great one to watch . I don't know how to put this movie in the words it truly deserves , just if there was a blue print on how to make a great film , I would highly recommend On the Waterfront .
Even though it was overly advertised , this was a great film !	What I meant is if normally a movie has just been rubbed in my face as " the greatest movie of the year ! " , 10 , 000 Burger King commercials , and just a bunch of insane Peter Jackson freaks can make you want to stay away from a film and might even cause a little bit of bitterness towards it . I mean , this has been the ultimate year of remakes , it's crazy , Hollywood has nothing original any more . Still , King Kong the original is a classic , and it was one of my favorites when I was a kid and still to this day I enjoy watching it as well . So , I admit , I had so much curiosity , especially since Mr . Jackson cared so much to add on another 80 minutes to the film . Surprisingly , I am going to admit this 100 % , I loved this film . It didn't even feel like it was a three hour film , it had so much character development , cool effects , terrific actors , and just a great picture all around . The story between Kong and Anne I felt had more depth in this film than the original , they went a little more with details on why she began to feel for Kong at the end . Don't worry , I'm not dissing the classic . : ) Jack Black , I know a lot of people are worried they cannot take him seriously in this film . Trust me , actually , he did a great job as a dramatic performer . Adrien Brody , he's a terrific actor , I do have one complaint , I felt that his character was denied some development or just showing his love for Anne felt a little empty . The love story between him and Anne was not as exciting as the original , you were rooting for Kong and Anne to get married . : ) It could work , right ? If you don't believe me watch " The Simpson's Treehouse of Horror III " . But King Kong is one of the best films of the year , out of all the remakes , this is the one I would highly recommend for 2005 ! Happy New Year , and let's hope Hollywood has learned it's lesson , don't mess with the classics any more unless they're like " King Kong " !
A new Dog Day Afternoon with a clever twist	Unfortunately , my generation did not have Dog Day Afternoon , nore did most of them get the full effect , it's a terrific movie . When I saw the theatrical trailer for this in the theater , I just thought it was another crappy remake that some amateur director thought he could do a better job of a priceless and flawless classic . Inside Man was surprisingly another terrific heist film that had some really good twists in it . It is like a new version of Dog Day Afternoon , not to mention it has an honorary citation in there . The acting is terrific and it keeps you going into the next scene after another . I loved how it wasn't typical and it had like a new attitude to it in this world of typical action movies . I would highly recommend Inside Man , it's a great action heist movie that could grab anyone . And to my generation who hasn't seen Dog Day Afternoon , please go out and rent that as well .
BEFORE computer effects were cool	Carrie is one of those movies that is just unforgettable and you can't help but enjoy . Adapted from a novel that Stephen King wrote , this is a fantastic movie . The Oscars for acting were very well deserved and I wouldn't doubt that this is one of the best films from ' 76 . Carrie is a shy girl in high school who gets picked on . . . a lot . At home , it's not any better , she has a psychotic mother who is abusive and highly religious . Everyone underestimates her and doesn't realize the little power she has inside her , telekinesis " Thought to be the ability to move or to cause changes in objects by force of the mind " . When she has a very bad incident at school , a girl , Sue feels horrible and asks her boyfriend to take Carrie to the prom in hopes to make Carrie a little more popular . One of the girls , Chris , isn't feeling so guilty , more of in a revenge mood and wants to get Carrie back for her punishment by being banned from the prom for her prank on Carrie . Her and her hillbilly boyfriend , Billy played by guess who ? John Travolta ! They together devise the perfect revenge by dumping pig's blood all over Carrie at her perfect moment of being prom queen . It's not done yet , let's just say she can throw one HELL of a prom . This is a terrific movie , not just for horror fans , but for any movie fan . I would always recommend this movie for it's memorable characters , moments , lines , and scenes . The ending is always a heart stopper though , you might want a blanket to cover your head .
Without a doubt , better than the first one !	I loved this movie so much ! " Meet the Fockers " was hilerious . The first " Meet the Parents " was a little over rated . Everyone was telling me that it was the funniest movie they had ever seen . I laughed , but wasn't on the floor laughing . I saw " Meet the Fockers " on Christmas Day , and I was laughing histerically . At times it could be a little predictable , but over all I would never say " It's OK " . I would greatly recommend this film . Ben Stiller has finally come back with his comedic career . And everyone knows my love for Robert DeNiro . What a great cast . See " Meet the Fockers " . Believe me , you will not regret it .
One of the funniest films I have seen in a while !	The great thing about " Election " is that it's not really a laugh out loud type of film , but it just makes you laugh from beginning to end . You just know at that last second of the film you just saw a good movie . It's about a teacher played by Matthew Broderick , Mr . Maccaslister who seems to have a doubtful life but thinks highly of himself . He is a little overwhelmed by Tracy Flick , she's the overachiever of the high school , you remember those people ? When nobody decides to run against Tracy , Mr . Maccalister is sure to destroy her and nominate the most popular jock in high school , Chris Klein . When he takes his sister's crush away , another girl , his sister runs against him and Tracy for president . The whole movie just goes around how horrible these people truly are , despite their high opinions of themselves . I highly recommend Election for a good laugh , this is a true comedy that I really enjoyed . I think you will too , so think not what you can do for your movies , but what your movies could do for you . That made more sense in my head . : P
Wow	" The Life of David Gale " is a terrific thriller and is one of the best of 2003 . Despite going to this movie through the worst date of my life . . . shudder , I still have nightmares , this movie was the silver lining . I was very excited to see this movie because it has such an awesome actor , obviously Kevin Spacey and then a great actress Kate Winslet . This political thriller keeps you on the edge of your seat and keeps you guessing what's going to happen next . Wither you're for or against or undecided about the death penalty , this movie gets to you and keeps you thinking after wards about our justice system in the United States . David Gale is an accused murderer on death row , his last few days he requests to be interviewed by Bitsey Bloom , a journalist who likes to keep her mouth shut even when she shouldn't . He tells her his incredible story about from being one of the most respected men in Texas to one of the most hated for being accused of rape . " No one sees a person when they look through that glass , they see a murderer and a rapist three days shy of his execution " . Is he guilty or not ? Trying to figure this out in the story you jump to your own conclusion , this man has been accused of rape , murder , he's lost his family and friends . Take away everything and find out if people just overlook cases or if we should judge the first minute we hear one side of the story . The Life of David Gale is an amazing story that will keep you interested . Just trust me , it's a great movie . I can even watch it without having nightmares about my horrific date . : ) OK , just watch it .
An intense and very terrifying movie that will make you sleep with the bible a few nights in a row	The Exorcist is one of the best movies to come out of the 70's and deserves better than slowly descending down the top 250 . It's one of those essential films you have to see in order to understand what a movie truly is and this is more than a horror film . Unfortunately there are so many people who are saying they got bored , I think because they expected a terrifying movie , people ! This isn't a slasher movie , this isn't some scary Michael Myers that you can shoot , this is a story about normal people in a normal house and upstairs there is a little girl who happens to be possessed by " The devil himself " . Faith is so strong and when it's shaken , anything in your imagination can run wild . First off the actors : Ellen Burstyn plays Chris McNeil , an actress working in Washington , D . C . on a film . She is the mother of Regan , the little girl who is possessed . I felt such sorrow for Chris , when she begs Father Karras to help her with Regan , I almost cried for her . Her daughter is not sick , this is nothing she can give Regan a pill and she'll be better . Her speech to Father Karras later on in the film : " You show me Regan's double , same face , same voice , everything . And I'd know it wasn't Regan . I'd know in my gut . Now , I want you to tell me that you know for a fact that there's nothing wrong with my daughter , except in her mind . You tell me for a fact that an exorcism wouldn't do any good ! You tell me that ! " sent shivers down my spine , this woman knows what Regan needs and will do whatever she can . We have Linda Blair who plays Regan and she was so great for a 12 year old actress . This little apple faced girl became one of the most frightening images of the 70's and still to this day . She's not scary because she's swearing , this little innocent girl has been taken over by forces that she shouldn't even know about . Jason Miller as Father Karras , for a man who had never acted professionally before , he was quite amazing as a priest who just lost his mother and his faith has been shaken up . Max Von Sydow as Father Merrin was so strong and he was like in his 20's playing a man in his 90's . He was robbed of an Oscar , he was so believable and just amazing during the exorcism scene . The effects ? People ! This was the 70's and they made a bed float ! They turned this little angel's face into a hideous creature ! If you watch the documentary " Fear of God : The Making of the Exorcist " , Ellen Burstyn gets slapped by Regan in the film and she had kind of a rope tied around her waist . When the stunt man pulled her back , Billy the director told the guy to let her have it and he YANKED her back hard causing real pain in Ellen's back and that was an actual scream in the movie . They froze the room to the point as were moisture got into the set and there was a layer of snow in the morning they were shooting . There was no CGI , this was the real deal and I believe could truly help the actors . Linda Blair was being thrashed up and down during one of the possessed scenes where the bracing came loose and caused slamming of metal to her back repeatedly and her screams were also very real and bone chilling . William Freidkin is the director of The Exorcist , and there was no better choice . This guy took this picture seriously , so far as to shoot a gun offstage or scream obscenities to get an actor's shocked reaction on film . He slapped almost punched Reverend William O'Malley who played Father Dyer to get him to shake during his reciting the Last Rites to Father Karras . He almost would have killed to make this picture and anyone doing it . Weither or not the set of The Exorcist was truly cursed with a total of 9 deaths linked to the film , a fire on the set with no apparent reason , and the total feeling of evil around the room , we'll never know . But The Exorcist is a true motion picture never to missed or deserve no more than the true compliments it should get ! This is the film that should be shown to any aspiring film makers . It's a masterpiece of a film that's more than a mere horror flick .
Honestly ? This is the best Disney / Pixar movie I have seen	I'm starting to wonder if there is bad Disney / Pixar film , I mean , normally when we think of the combo , it does equal gold , we automatically know that everyone is going to love this movie , it's just a matter of comparison to the other animation films . I'm not just saying this because I had a good time when I was watching this , I'm very serious , this is my favorite Disney / Pixar film . It's completely worth the ticket price , this couldn't have been a more perfect film . Everything about WALL·E is just beyond great : the characters , the story , and the incredible animation . But the thing that I loved about WALL·E is it's message , I know that it does go a little over board with the " jog or get fat " , " throw your garbage away " , and the " we've become too dependent on machines " message , but I felt this was the most charming way to present it to the children who have to grow up in a world where they're going to have to worry about global warming , this may open their eyes a little . WALL·E is a robot that is left all alone on Planet Earth , Earth is now covered with garbage . The humans have left onto a corporate ship and are living their lives care free and well , thought free . WALL·E has been collecting little human pieces here and there and making them into his treasures , but the one thing he really wants is a friend . One day a ship lands with a female robot , Eve , who WALL·E just adores , but Eve is on a mission to find a plant to bring back onto the human ship to show that Earth is safe . But when the ship grabs Eve , WALL·E follows her and discovers the mutiny that is afoot on the ship . Everyone is overweight , can't walk , can't think for themselves , and let's all the robots do all the work for them . But WALL·E and Eve are on the mission to get them back to Earth and give it a little love . WALL·E is seriously the best movie I have seen this summer , I just adored this movie , it has great laughs , cute jokes and is entertaining for the whole family . Like I said before , when it's Disney / Pixar you just can't go wrong . WALL·E is one of their most lovable characters ever and was like the robot version of Charlie Chaplin , he brought great slap stick to the story . This movie delivers everything you can imagine and much more , not to mention a great message . I highly recommend this movie for everyone , it's just a very wonderful movie that anyone can enjoy . The animation , I can't believe how far we've come , but this was a beautifully made movie and couldn't have been better . I loved WALL·E , this is a movie that will bring you plenty of laughs for your summer .
There is a beginning for everyone	Ah , Tim Burton . One of the greatest and strangest directors in the world . I was lucky enough to have seen " Frankenweenie " . It was one of the many wonderful extra features on " Nightmare before Christmas " . I would highly recommend this to any Tim Burton fan . It is in fact probably a must . You get to see his early work . It is very interesting on his take of " Frankenstein " . The story has some laughs . I think it was meant that way . So if you enjoy any of Tim Burton's stories , I think you will definitely enjoy this one . " Frankenweenie " is a great story . Tim Burton . He has come a long way from these days .
A truly incredible film	Eastern Promises is another big talker for the Oscars and golden globes , I wasn't interested at first , but after hearing such excellent reviews , I am so grateful that I listened to them . Eastern Promies is one of the best films of the year , and honestly , I would say it's one of the best films in this century . The performances were just absolutely flawless , both Vigoo and Naomi were perfect choices and their performances were beyond incredible . Not to mention the rest of the cast , I just cannot pick a favorite . Another thing that made this film terrific was the lighting and settings , David Cronenberg is such an amazing director . There was a shot in particular that I thought was so beautiful , with the prostitute that Viggo sleeps with and she's lying on the bed singing was so hypnotic and heart breaking , just captures the terror she's probably been through in the business . The story is a memorable one that is up to Godfather standards . Anna is just a nurse in London , when her hospital comes across a 14 year old who is pregnant and gives a premature birth , she dies , but the baby lives . The girl has left a diary of her life and how she became pregnant and by whom , going deep into the dark world of the Russian mafia in London . Anna is determined to find out what happened to her and talks to the godfather who is accused of raping the girl . Nikolai is a " driver " for the Russian mafia , he is being pressured to be more tough , but deep down , he knows what the right thing is to do and after a horrible set up , he realizes the dark world he is in and wants to help Anna . Eastern Promises was just a flawless film , there was absolutely nothing wrong with this movie . I really hope that the Oscars recognize it's creditability , it's a classic for mob movies and a new favorite of mine . Viggo was just so amazing , his scene where he is telling the mob bosses of his history of crime was absolutely perfect and dead on . His story was so heart breaking when you really think about it and just the horrible life he has had to led to be accepted . Anna , played by Naomi , she just truly captured my heart in trying to save this baby's life and find out the story behind her mother's tragic life . Eastern Promises is a film not to be missed , it's a perfect film .
Michael's last fantastic album in his finest moments	" Thriller " has always been my favorite M . J . album and " Bad " would be second . But " Dangerous " is a wonderful album as well . " HIStory " wasn't bad . And videos from " Dangerous " you wanted to see or miss you should get " Dangerous : The Short Films " . Not only do you get his wonderful videos , but you get his glory days .
An exciting and high packed action thriller that will keep you on the edge of your seat	What excellent performances ! Why didn't Tom Cruise get nominated for an Oscar as well ? I thought both him and Jamie did a remarkable job in " Collateral " . This movie was a lot of fun to watch . Everyone told me that this was the movie to watch if I would rent , so I figured to give it a shot . The whole movie you just keep wondering what would happen next and how it would turn out in the end . It was kind of weird , because you feel like Tom was in some ways right as a hit man , but then you snap back into your senses and " Wait ! No ! He's killing people ! " . I'm very serious when I say that he is so in tune with his role . He was very convincing as well as Jamie . Jamie does well as a man who is on the edge of insanity . I felt like if I were in the same situation , I would've reacted the same way too . You eventually just loose it and do your best to keep it together doing things you never expected to do in your life . This was a very terrific movie , and I would highly recommend it for anybody .
I'm still wiping the tears from my eyes	I was so hesitant to see The Pursuit of Happiness for one reason , this movie looked like an incredible tear jerker , just from the trailer I was nearly crying . But my friend and I had been hearing incredible reviews about this movie , so we decided to suck it up and see the movie today and we were just blown away by how amazing Will Smith's performance was . He and his son were just so incredibly heart warming and really reminded you of the important things in life . I was so touched by Chris's story , he was so determined , this movie makes you wanna go out and achieve your dreams and to never let anyone tell you what is right and what is wrong , what you can and cannot do . Chris Gardner is a struggling salesmen trying just to make the rent , buy food , and take the best care of his son that he possibly can . When his wife leaves him and his son to go get a better life , Chris is left on his own , but he wins an internship at a stocks broker company that is very competitive . Against incredible odds , he just pulls through the ultimate lows of life and keeps his head up with his son by his side . They become homeless , living in hotels , homeless shelters , and even a cruddy subway bathroom ! But Chris holds on to his ultimate dream of being happy and giving him and his son the life they truly deserve . This movie in every way possible is perfect , it was so brilliantly made and just so inspiring . Will Smith better be nominated for an Oscar next month ! This was an incredible performance and his son was just so cute , I guess talent really does run in his family . : ) I would highly recommend The Pursuit of Happiness this year ! It was a beautiful film that makes you feel like you can achieve anything you truly put you heart too , I just wish I brought more tissues !
Just as good as the first	In my profile I wrote that I hate chick flicks . Most of my friends and family knows that as well . That's one of the reasons why I almost didn't watch the first " Bridget Jones " . I was afraid it was all like , " GIRL POWER ! " and " Did you ever know that your my ? " Yadda , yadda , yadda . But I finally gave in and watch the damn movie and I loved it . I had to see the sequel with my mom . We had such a great time watching this movie . The best thing about Bridget Jones is that you , if you are a woman , can relate to her . She's a real woman . Not like one of those perfect Denise Richards type who put on glasses and baggy clothing in movies and says that they are ugly . Bridget gives the full affect of what it is like being a woman in today's age . The pressure can be a bit unbearable . That's why I would I highly recommend the Bridget Jones movies . They are perfect for every woman .
One of my favorite memories as a child	Technically , yes , this is a dark tale . And it can be a little frightful to some children . But I wouldn't worry . There is a happy ending . I remember watching this when I was a child . Not in 75 , more like ' 90 or ' 91 . Sorry , just wanted to make that clear . : D But I loved this cartoon . It was so interesting to me . Sometimes it scared me a little . But even when I was a kid , I loved scary stories . So , I would highly recommend for adults and kids . But if the kids scare easy , you might want to warn them . But also read the book . Yes , even though I am adult now , I still enjoy these classic cartoons . It's a great one .
Brutal and Spectacular !	I have to say that this for me has so far been the biggest shock movie of the year , after seeing the trailer to 300 , it looked like such a pathetic excuse for computer animation . But my friends wanted to see it tonite and I figured why not ? I couldn't believe my eyes and how excellent this movie was , I mean , visually it was actually stunning as well as the battle sequences were beyond crazy ! So far , I would say that 300 is the best movie I have seen in the theater so far this year . It was so exciting to watch , every scene had one shock after the other and the battle sequences were so amazing to see , how the Spartans defended themselves , they were absolutely awesome ! It's based on the Spartans , their lives and how they came to be what the legend that they are to this day . When they are threatened by the Persians that they will be turned into slaves , the Spartans decide to defend themselves along side with their king . Going against incredible odds of only 300 Spartans to thousands and thousands of Persians and horrible monsters , they pull together and become the strongest team of all ! But the Persian " lord " will not give up until he claims victory over the team that is beating them down like they're nothing . It had great dark drama around a light humor that would give you a breathe of fresh air . The scene with the king looking up to see all the arrows coming towards him is one of the most amazing and unique scenes I have ever seen in cinema . I would Definitely recommend this movie for anyone to see , it is an incredible movie with intense battle sequences , terrific acting , beautiful settings , and a great story . I guarantee you will not be let down .
It's not a GUY'S film only	Without a doubt this movie is probably the best coming of age flick around , it has terrific acting and an incredibly touching plot that keeps you going throughout the whole film . I think the reason I love this film so much is because , everyone in some way could relate to it . When you're a pre-teen and have a close group of friends and face something so intense together , there's that special bond that no matter how much you loose touch with each other , one day , you just think of them and that one incident . Stand by Me is about 4 pre-teen boys whose summer is about to end and they are about to start junior high . They've obviously grown up together and are nervous of the world they are about to face , where they are no longer kids , but just about to become adults . When their friend , Vern , tells them about a kid their age that is missing that he found out by listening in on his brother where the kid's body is , the boys think it would be so cool to find the body and become the local town heroes . They have one problem though , there are these big tough guys who want to find the body first , it's a matter of who will reach it first . But of course , it's the bonding of the boys that really gets you into the film . These are some of the best characters I have seen on film , we start with Gordy . Gordy is an intelligent writer who lost his big brother , his idol , in a car crash recently and can't get any love or respect from his father and it's obvious that he gets it from his friends . That's what keeps him going . Chris is the leader of the gang and Gordy's best friend , he comes from a very bad family and is dubbed the bad seed everywhere , he's the kid who you knew in school and just knew he'd turn out bad , but there's a deeper side to him . The speech that River Phoenix turned out for Chris was so beautifully dilvered as a child who's been disappointed so many times by an adult . Teddy is another bad kid sort of speak , he has a bad home life where his father is crazy and nearly killed him a few times . He has a quick temper , but you can tell that his friends keep him down to Earth and help him through the worst times . Then there's Vern , the funny fat kid who is pretty much scarred of everything , and in some ways is the 4th wheel . Still , Vern you can tell is a great friend and the other's appreciate him despite how he can hold them back . The acting is just phenomenal . Now , the directing , Rob Reiner is without a doubt one of the best directors of all time , he took these young boys and pushed them to their limits , he was so smart about it as well . He said in an interview that he had to get pre-teen boys who were close to the personality of the character in the film , so it would come natural to the pre-teen actors , and you could tell that this film was his baby , he put so much thought and love into this film . That's what makes this film so special , nothing could ever compete with a coming of age film like Stand By Me .
Well of course when you've got nothing better to do with a broken leg you will accuse your neighbor of murder !	Finally , I watched " Rear Window " by famous Alfred Hitchcock . First off , I saw this movie on the top 250 , and it's # 14 on top of that ! I mean , it's gotta be great or a classic , right ? Also , I'm a fan of the Simpsons , and I got the 6th season where Bart breaks his leg and has to watch the kids outside and accuses Flanders of murdering his wife , Maude . I watched it with commentary and the writers said this was taken from the movie " Rear Window " , I had to see this movie ! I know it sounds silly that I was more inspired by a show , but it's a good reference if it's from The Simpsons . " Rear Window " is an excellent movie and a great classic that should never be forgotten ! After 51 years , this is still a well talked about movie and I can see why . Jimmy Stewart , he's just so great as L . B . , I loved his madness and his dark comical role . He doesn't even try , but you can't help but laugh at a lot of his lines , the way he looks , and the way he presents every scene . He didn't have a lot of movement , he is confined to a wheel chair , but he is so effective and perfect . No one could have replaced him as L . B . , he's a terrific actor ! Grace Kelly , what a beauty ! Beauty and talent , what a great combination and she had it . Playing Liza , I loved her character so much . She started out as this extremely feminine lovely woman who is struggling with L . B . , because he is having doubts about marrying her , and you can tell she loves him so much and is willing to do anything for him and to make their lives work , despite his adventurous side as a photographer and her being an indoor kitten . When L . B . talks of the murder to Liza , she is doubtful but never dismisses that it could be a possibility , and stays with him into the end . She finally goes into danger and grabs it by the you know what and wins L . B . ' s heart . I loved the ending , to me it was just one more good laugh with L . B . and Liza . I won't tell , you'll just have to trust me , it was a brilliant way to breath and smile again after all the suspense and drama . " Rear Window " is a true classic and I'm extremely grateful to the reviewers of IMDb who saw this movie and gave it great reviews , and the writers of The Simpsons ! If it were not for you guys , I nor other members of my generation would probably not view it ! Let's keep this classic alive !
Why aren't there more movies like Sunset now a days ?	I've said it before and I'll say it again , movies lately have been major disappointments and there are no more memorable films . So , I decided to reenergize my faith in Hollywood and I'm watching nothing but the classics now . Who hadn't heard of some reference to the line " Mr . DeMille , I'm ready for my close up " ? But unfortunately I never knew what film that came from . I purchased the book " 1001 movies you must see before you die " and finally the reference was answered and I rented this movie without hesitance . Sunset Blvd . is just an incredible movie and just so amazing . I wish there were movies like this now a days . I loved Norma's character , just how insane she was yet trying to stay so glamorous . You felt so awful for her character despite everything . And not to mention an unforgettable ending to this great story . High recommended ! There is hope for Hollywood , there is !
I want to meet a duke from 1876 !	I loved this movie . It was so romantic . Meg Ryan and Hugh Jackman are so cute together . The plot actually made sense . I just know that I loved this movie . It's so romantic and funny . Kate and Leopold just got to me , I don't know . But I proudly give it a
A love story of confusion and acceptance	Hilary Swank won in 2000 the Best Actress Oscar for 1999's " Boys Don't Cry " . While I think she did an excellent job , I felt the Oscar still should have gone to Annette Benning for " American Beauty " . But Hilary is awesome as well , this is a close tie for the Oscar . " Boys Don't Cry " is an excellent movie . I was really moved and touched by the story . It made me cry , I'm a girl it's OK : D , because just being accepted for being different is so hard . I felt so awful for Hilary's character . Bradon and Lela had a beautiful love that was awkward obviously , but it was true . This being a true story scares me a bit . Because we still haven't changed to this day in not accepting other's being a homosexual or wanting a sex change . Maybe this movie can help us realize some mistakes . I think this is a great movie to watch , but it is very graphic and disturbing . It's not for all , but I would recommend it . Hilary , you are a terrific actress , keep it up !
One of the funniest movies in history	In my college film class we had begun watching " It happened one night " . I was laughing my head off . But of course my professor stops the movie right when it was getting good . After that , I wanted to see this movie so badly . My father lucky enough had the movie . I watched it and it is one of the funniest movies I have ever seen . Clark Gable is histerical . He really does a great job in the film . I always did prefer the old comedies to today . Do you blame me ? If you watch the flick , you will enjoy it . This is one of the first romantic comedies . It'll send all the others to the back of the bus . I would higly recommend this movie . It's a classic .
100 times funnier then the first one	Even though the first " Addams Family " delivered a ton of laughs , you will get more kicks and need more air from this movie . I cannot understand how even one person could not get at least a laugh from this film . The whole camp sequences are hilarious . Christina Ricci has come a long way , and despite the many wonderful films I have seen her in , this was always my favorite role . The kids were just perfect for this comedy . Fester and Debbie , I absolutely loved them . I thought Debbie was the perfect edition to the Addams clan . : D Her speech at the end about her " victims " was right on key and on the floor funny ! Any true film lover should give this movie a chance and have fun . It's a great film that might even brighten your day . In an Addams Family way : D .
Brings back so many memories	1994 was the year of the Might Morphin Power Rangers , I was only 9 years old and was such a huge fan . I remember the summer of 1995 my friends and our parents took us to see The Might Morphin Power Rangers : The Movie and we thought it was the greatest movie ever made . I know that's sad , but we loved the show and the movie lived up to a great episode with an even better budget . I hadn't seen the movie since ' 95 , but my boyfriend and I went to Target and found this movie on the $5 . 50 shelf and I grabbed it for old times sake since he was also a Power Rangers fan when he was a kid . We watched it and I have to say that despite how bad it is and how mega cheesy the lines and acting are , Mighty Morphin Power Rangers : The Movie is what it is . It was aimed at kids and was terrific for them , the story was so bad that it was actually good . The rangers are living their lives in the fast lane , they're sky diving and roller blading , I mean is there anything they can't do ? But anyways , all that is put on pause when Zordon warns the rangers of Rita and Zed's evil plan to raise Ivan Ooze . Ivan is planning to take over the world when he shrinks Rita and Zed and is putting all the kids parents under a powerful spell to make them do his bidding . Ivan then visits the command center and destroys it leaving Zordon in bad shape and now the rangers have to save the world on top of saving Zordon and become the powerful ninjas to regain their powers and defeat Ooze . Mighty Morphin Power Rangers : The Movie is extremely silly and cheesy , but I don't know what people were expecting when they watched it that it got such a bad rating . It's one of those movies that is so bad that it's actually good . Although Zordon's face will haunt my dreams for a long time , it was classic the way the " actors " who played the rangers presented their lines , I loved how they would fight and do back flips , yet could say their lines perfectly without sounding out of breath . Also how they replaced certain rangers with people who looked like they were picked out of a kick ball team line . But Mighty Morphin Power Rangers : The Movie is a classic film I think in a sense and will be a true time capsule of
Classic Eddie , timeless !	I recently bought the best of Saturday Night Live : Eddie Murphy , and I just about died laughing . Unfortunately , before that I only saw like three of the episodes of SNL with Eddie on tape , Eddie was kind of before my time , but when I got to see the best , I was really excited and my mom asked me if I ever saw Beverly Hills Cop , but I didn't . She went out to buy it and I just watched it , I nearly died laughing . Eddie plays Axel , a tough street smart cop from Detroit . His convict friend comes to visit him with some phony bonds , but ends up getting murdered . Axel decides to take things into his own hands and goes to Beverly Hills to find his friend's killer . He ends up getting followed by the Beverly Hills cops while he's on the case of Victor Maitland , the number one suspect for his friend's murder . Eddie has some amazing scenes in this movie , my favorite is where he has to get into the restaurant to see Victor again and he acts gay and says he has a disease that he has to tell Vic about to the host . This is a terrific movie and really shows the many talents of Eddie Murphy , the guy is just great . What a laugh !
Incredible , where are these movies now a days ?	Shadow of a Doubt is an incredible film once again directed by Alfred Hitchcock , not to mention that he claims this is his favorite movie by himself . Shadow of a Doubt is well acted and again well put together . It's about a girl , Charlie , her Uncle Charlie ( she was named after him ) comes to visit her and her family . They love him to death , he's very generous , kind , and always giving them lavish gifts . But when Charlie starts to wonder why he is tearing up news papers and won't answer or take pictures by reporters , well , you know the saying " curiousity killed the cat " ? That's the perfect sentence to sum up this film . It's original and exciting to watch . I would always again recommend this movie for any movie appreciator or Alfred Hitchcock fan . This is a true classic and an exciting thriller .
Excellent , depressing , but excellent	Man , I can not get this film out of my head . It is so rare that a movie can affect me the way " The Pianst " did . The last movie that did that was " Casino " . I was really tired when I was watching the movie . It was almost midnight , so I was thinking that I'll start watching and I'll finish it in the morning . Did I ? No , indeed I did not stop watching . I couldn't stop it . I just wanted to see what would happen next . I cried during " Schindler's List " , I sobbed in this film . Everything that happens in this film is so sad . Adrien Brody does a remarkable job of acting in this film . I would very highly recommend this film . Especially if you are a history buff . Please , I think this film should be in the top 10 best films of all time . I looked on the message boards you know and some other user comments that didn't enjoy this film much , they criticized Adrien Brody's performance and say that he was boring and only showed emotions that are easy to act . Please , you have got to be kidding me . This man portrayed the total feeling of hopelessness , being alone , being hated . I one time had an audition in high school like this to see if I could improvise , and the way I imagined this feeling is like in dodgeball where you have no one else on your team and you're the only one left standing , yet on the other team there is 20 big men that are just waiting to wack that ball at you . Adrien couldn't have done a better job , I was so frightened for him and cried for him during the whole film while he was one the run . Roman Polanski as the director , he himself escaped the terrors of being a prisoner in The Holocaust , yet he lost his mother and other family members . Yes , I'm sure this film must have been hard to re create for him , but he was probably the only director that could have done this movie as brilliantly as he did . He created this story and made it so effective , I called up my mom and told her that I loved her so much because we take so many things for granted . True , this isn't the 1930's or 40's , and we are in America . But it's still frightening to think that human beings are capable of that much hate and being so brutal to another human . World War II is one of the most frightening wars in history , if you read more about The Holocaust , you get more into it and you should . If you are not interested , then watch this film . It's a must see , otherwise how else will we learn from our mistakes ? The Pianist is a beautiful and extremely dark tale about a man and the struggle to survive . The ending is so powerful and moving to know that sometimes one man can make a difference in a crowd of so many and I'm not talking about Adrien Brody's character . You'll see what I mean .
Terrific movie for action lovers	I was absolutely impressed with " Four Brothers " . What a great film that I've been needing after a few disappointments over the summer . I finally saw " Four Brothers " after everyone told me that it was a great movie . Trust me , it lives up to the hype . The drama is there , the action , and humor . Mark Wahlberg has come such a long way from the Calvin Kline Ad's . He's become a great actor along with a great cast , they all created an entertaining flick . If you loved Four Brothers , I would highly recommend The Boondock Saints . I'm sorry this comment couldn't be more , but all I can say is that this is a good movie and should be seen by every action lover .
And then there was Disney , , ,	Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs is the very first animated film featured by Disney and one of the most charming . While it's a bit different from the original fairy tale , Walt Disney took this familiar classic and turned into a family film that is still talked about over 60 years later . Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs is such a charming film and is another example of beautiful animation and a terrific story that could charm it's way into your heart . I still enjoy watching this film to this day , who could love the seven dwarfs ? They all were so funny to watch and are so memorable . They pretty much represent our moods , they're kinda like a mood ring that's put into one room , lol . But Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs is the perfect family film that is still holding up very well all these years . Snow White is a lovely princess who one day is just traveling through the forest . She comes across a house where it's a total mess , she decides to clean it as a favor to those who are living there . It turns out that seven dwarfs live there and when they find her , they realize they got a good thing going here , a hot girl who'll clean for them . But not everything is happy , the evil wicked queen wants to be the fairest in the land and Snow White has just beat her by a land slide . So she disguises herself as a witch and offers Snow White an apple , she eats it , and dies . Now the queen's the hottest girl in town , but the dwarfs come up with a clever plan to get her true love , the prince , he must kill the queen and save Snow White so they could live happily ever after . I'd say that's a nice summary , I try my best anyways . Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs is just one of the greatest Disney films ever made . It's such a charming film and is very much apart of our pop culture today and as far as films go , this is just a great one . I can't wait to show this to my kids one day , they'll probably laugh thinking how old this movie is that it's hand drawn , but I think that's what makes it so special . The voices , the songs , the animation , everything about Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs was just beautiful . I highly recommend this , it's a great family film .
It's a scream that they made something this original !	In 1996 , when I saw this in the theater , I was expecting to see a predictable movie . That we would just get bored with . But I was wrong . This has to be one of the most clever movies of the 90's . Believe me , this was an awesome thriller . Wes Craven should stick to movies like this , It had a wonderful cast . Funny lines . Scary moments . Classic horror scenes that will keep you at the edge of your seat . A movie that you'll rewind and want to watch again and again . And after the 50th time you watch it , you'll say , just one more time . So , if you have good taste , or are looking for something original , watch this film . And get the trilogy DVD set . It's a screamer !
Let's see the world through the eyes of Forrest Gump	" I've made about 20 films and 5 of them are pretty good " - Tom Hanks . " Forrest Gump " is one of the best movies of all time , guaranteed . I really just love this movie and it has such a special place in my heart . The performances are just so unforgettable and never get out of your head . The characters , I mean the actors turned into them and that's what got to me . The lines are so memorable , touching , and sometimes hilarious . We have Forrest Gump ( Tom Hanks ) , not the sharpest tool in the box , his I . Q . is right below the average scores . But his mama ( Sally Field ) believes that her boy has the same opportunities as anyone else and lets Forrest know that there's nothing that could hold him back . As a boy he is put into braces for his legs since he has a crooked back and really doesn't have too many friends . When he gets on a school bus for his first day of school , NO ONE will let him sit next to them . This scene is so heart breaking until you hear a little angel's voice " You can sit here if you want " . Jenny , Forrest's best friend and crush , she looks so incredibly innocent and you love her because her and Forrest are like pea's and carrots . But we find out that there is an extremely unfortunate side to her life , she has a father that's " always kissing and touching her and her sisters " . Forrest just assumes that it's a father's love since he doesn't have a dad that could show him that it's wrong . Forrest and Jenny together walk every day from school and when these kids start throwing rocks at Forrest calling him stupid , Jenny just tells Forrest " Run , Forrest ! Run ! " . He miraculously breaks the braces off his legs and run like the wind blows . Forrest meets many celebrities from his life that just happened to be there : Elvis Presley visited his house before hitting it big , President Kennedy honored him with a all American football award , President Johnson who honored him with a medal of honor for his actions in Vietnam , President Nixon ( in which Forrest happens to discover a problem in the Water Gate Hotel because some people seem to be flashing lights around ) , and John Lennon through a talk show to talk about his medal of honor . Forrest meets some interesting people along the way too that are even better than these celebrities combined ; Bubba his Vietnam war friend who dreams of owning a shrimp boat one day and was born with big gums . He is just so wonderful and charming and won't stop talking about shrimp . Luteniet Dan , a leader of Forrest's army in Vietnam who gets saved by Forrest during a huge attack and looses his legs as a result . Luteniet Dan was by far my favorite character , he has so much pride and wants to die in Vietnam due to his family history tradition of dying in every single American war . He and Forrest make quite a pair . And of course there's Jenny , a very tragic figure , she gets more mean as she grows up because she knows that Forrest loves her , in some ways you can't blame her really . She was obviously abused and I think she felt that Forrest was too good for her or that he couldn't really give her the love she wanted . Robin Wright , what a beautiful and wonderful actress . This movie is incredible and should be seen by everyone . I am not kidding , " Forrest Gump " is a remarkable movie and inspires everyone . It's not just about someone stupid who happens to be in great places and historic events just because of being in the right place at the right time . This story is beautiful and will inspire everyone to go the distance and see the world like Forrest did and will never give up on their dreams .
Part 2 is one of the best movies of all time	After giving kind of a harsh view on Part 1 , I wanted to give the movie another chance . In fact , watch all 3 Godfather films . I bought my mom the trilogy on DVD and asked if I could borrow it . I misjugded the first one completely . And I found a great treasure with Part 2 . It was such an amazing film . Robert DeNiro's performance is flawless . It can never be touched . The story is amazing . I love the story between Michael and Kay . There was such anger and betrayal , that I couldn't wait to see how it ended in the 3rd one . From what I've seen , I can say that Part 2 is my favorite . Then the 1st and then the 3rd . I would highly recommend " The Godfather Part 2 " . It is a great film . And it deserves all the credit we can give it . Bravo Mr . DeNiro !
One of my new favorite comedies !	Seriously , when it comes to today's comedies , they are a rare find of a really decent laugh . Now also , when I rent , it's rare that I laugh really hard out loud by myself , I couldn't help but do that when I watched this one ! " Bowfinger " is brilliant with SNL's famous Steve Martin and Eddie Murphy . These two just work on so many levels with another comedic genius , Frank Oz , the director . The plot is that Steve is a struggling director who finally gets a break for a motion picture , but when the star he promised everyone turns down the leading role , he starts to film Eddie , the star Kit , without him knowing it . When he finds a look a like who just happens to be related , they go on a wacky and just drop dead laughing adventure of trying to get this film made . Great script , great cast , and just a hilarious movie in general ! Please , please watch and enjoy .
One of those movies that you'll never forget	I remember as a child , my sister told me to watch this film . That it was the best film she ever saw . I didn't watch it until I turned 10 ; finally I sat myself down and watched it . I fell in love with it . Based on the life of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart , played a terrific and hilarious performance by Tom Hulce . This also has the life of Antonio Salieri , a great and well deserved Oscar winning performance by F . Murray Abraham . Despite the story not being accurate , come on ! This is a great movie that was a gigantic Oscar waiting to happen . Congrats to Amaudeus for bringing the beauty of classical music into out living rooms . The story is that we start off with an older and more suicidal Salieri who blames himself for Mozart's death . When a priest comes to ask Salieri to plead forgiveness to the lord and wants to council him , Salieri describes who he was and how music inspired his life , he plays a few notes from his opera's that were masterpieces , the priest just looks at him not knowing the music . Salieri just looks at him with a smile and says " Ah , how about . . . ? " , he plays Mozart's most famous work and the priest gets excited saying " Oh , how charming ! I'm sorry , I didn't know you wrote that ! " smiling and knowing how it will please Salieri , Salieri just looks at him with a emotionless face " I didn't . That was Mozart , Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart " and you see the priest's embarrassment . Just great and a perfectly played out performance by Abraham and Frank . Tom Hulce gives Mozart this crazy and annoying yet nevertheless funny laugh that you can't help but laugh at it every time he does it . He brings such life to Mozart and an immaturity that I think some of us can relate too in being spoiled and always knowing you're the best at your talent . He marries Constanze played by Elizabeth Berridge and she does it remarkably well . Constanze is obviously the more mature one and is the only woman who can try to tame Mozart's crazy ways . When Salieri gets a little jealous that the emperor played by an under rated Jeffrey Jones , since he is the emperor's tutor , then the emperor demands more of Mozart and his music . Salieri vs . Mozart : on the next celebrity death match ! " Amadeus " is a fantastic movie that anyone could easily love and enjoy . It's definitely a must see for movie fans and anyone in general who is just looking for a good movie . This was the best picture of 1984 and it's well deserved , just trust me and the awesome reviews it's getting !
A Christmas classic	How the Grinch Stole Christmas ! is the ultimate Christmas tale of greed , bitterness , but the ultimate moral of good and kindness of people . Dr . Suess wrote this fine tale that is read and watched on TV each year during the Christmas season . I think the reason why people love this cartoon so much besides good memories is that fact that we all need a good smile during the holiday season , and How the Grinch Stole Christmas is guaranteed to do that . The story is just so heart warming and also it's very cute and funny . The story has a memorable narration by Boris Karloff , also who sung the nasty grinch song . The story is so much fun to watch how one grinch could take Christmas so bitterly . Each year down in Whoville , the who's are just getting ready for Christmas , it's always a joy each year to do so . They get presents , make a mighty delicious feast , and sing and dance with each other . But not everyone is so happy , there is a grinch that lives above them and doesn't want to celebrate Christmas one year . Maybe because his heart was just too small that he couldn't have a passion like the who's . But he's gonna steal Christmas along with his puppy , Max . But when he realizes that maybe Christmas might just mean a little bit more , he may have a change of heart . How the Grinch Stole Christmas ! is a must see film for the Christmas season . It's always a joy to watch each year and brings back happy memories of watching it with my family . The Grinch and Max are two of the most memorable characters since Santa Clause , this is such a touching story of how Christmas could be a little bit more than just gifts and dinner , but what it truly is ; being with your family and friends and making sure that you are grateful for everything you have . I love this film and I'm sure you will too , I would say rent it , but you'll see it on TNT this Christmas .
The worst director of all time seen through the eyes of one of the best directors of all time	This was the movie that Johnny Depp should have been nominated for ! He was amazing ! And seriously , this movie deserved so much more than just make-up and best supporting actor . " Ed Wood " is a terrific movie that every film fanatic will love . It has humor , drama , and romance . The thing is , I had heard a lot about Ed Wood , and was curious on what his life was like . My sister recommended this movie , and I think I might steal it from her . Just kidding ! But it's worth not only a watch but a buy as well . Everything about this movie is perfect . I don't think there is a way you can change it to make it any better . I would highly recommend this movie any time . Especially if you want to learn about the crazy and interesting life of " Ed Wood " .
Perfection on film	West Side Story , one of my personal favorite movies of all time and without a doubt my favorite musical . Why do I love this film so much ? Because of it's high energy , great actors , terrific songs , awesome dance numbers , and beautiful love story . As an updated Romeo and Juliet story , we visit the streets of Manhattan , two gangs of different ethnicities , Tony and Maria , the two fall in love by are torn apart by the gang's hatred for each other . Sounds pretty basic , not to mention we have dancing gangs , they don't really fight , they just dance , yeah again sissy , but not in this story ! The crew and cast put their heart and soul into this film and it truly paid off as this is the best picture of 1961 . In the streets of Manhattan the Jets , led by Riff , and a rival gang of Puerto Rican immigrants , the Sharks , led by Bernardo begin to rumble . The police arrive and tell the " hoodlums " to get off the streets . The Jets discuss challenging the Sharks to one last all out " rumble " , that will decide who gets control of the streets , and they will deliver the challenge to the Sharks at a dance later that night . Riff decides that his best friend Tony , a co-founder of the Jets who has left the gang to work at a local store , would be the best member of the Jets to present the challenge to the Sharks . When Riff visits Tony at the store , Tony initially refuses Riff's request to meet with the Sharks , but he later changes his mind . At the bridal shop where she works , Bernardo's sister , Maria complains to Bernardo's girlfriend , Anita . Maria believes that Bernardo is overprotective , never allowing her to have enough fun . Bernardo arrives and takes her to the dance . At the gym , the Jets , Sharks and girls are greatly enjoying themselves , but the rival gang members and their girlfriends remain apart . Tony and Maria see each other , become infatuated , almost going into a trance-like state and begin to dance , then embrace in a kiss . Bernardo pushes them away from each other and orders Maria home , and tells Tony to stay away from his sister . Tony discreetly visits Maria outside the fire escape at her home and they confirm their love . The next day at the bridal shop , Maria sings to her coworkers about how happy she is . Tony arrives to see Maria , she pleads with Tony to prevent the rumble altogether , even if only a fist fight is planned , and Tony promises to do so . At the the rumble , the fight begins between two rival gang members . Tony arrives and tries to stop the fight , but is met with ridicule and mockery from Bernardo and the Sharks . Unable to stand by and watch his best friend be humiliated , Riff angrily lashes out and punches Bernardo . Drawing their knives , Riff and Bernardo fight each other , their duel ending with Bernardo killing Riff . Enraged , Tony kills Bernardo with Riff's knife ! Tensions are now at an all time high as both gangs want to get even and Tony and Maria's love is being torn apart by all the hate . West Side Story is truly a special movie , I personally don't know why it's not on the top 250 IMDb movies , if you are going to watch a musical this is the one that I always recommend . We don't get musicals to this big scape any more , they don't have the same heart as West Side Story had . The actors are absolutely incredible , it's so weird when I watched a documentary on this movie , apparently Natalie Wood and Richard Beymer hated each other , but I guess that must help during the lust scenes because hate and love are practically in the same category when it comes to passion . But the true stars of the film are Rita Moreno as Anita and Russ Tamblyn as Riff , great performances from the both of them . West Side Story is a movie that has no flaws what so ever and anyone who wants to argue me on that , feel free to send me a message .
I loved Enchanted !	I first saw the trailer for Enchanted in the spring , from the moment it ended , I knew this was a movie that I wanted to see . I finally saw it today and it's everything that I hoped for and more . It was nice to finally see a Disney movie that wasn't computer animated , the beginning was almost a forgotten memory of the old fashion animation that I miss so much . But Enchanted is without a doubt one of the most fun films of the year and so perfect for the whole family . I though the plot was so extremely clever , what if the cartoons with the fairytale stories met into today's world ? Especially in New York City ? The cast just looked like they had the ultimate blast making this movie and really brought it to life . They each held their own and were a perfect choice for the comedic role they had to play . Enchanted is a clever twist on the classic fairy tale . Giselle has just met the prince of her dreams , he's saved her from a troll and asked for her hand in marriage , everything seems to be going good for them . But Prince Edward's step mother has other plans in mind when she doesn't want to give up her crown and let Giselle take it . So she sends Giselle to another world , one where there is no " happily ever after " , cut to New York City 2007 . She's in human form and needs to get back to her land , she meets a man Robert and his daughter , Morgan , she stays with them and ends up falling for Robert . Just in time since Prince Edward throws himself to the other dimension to save her , but it's definitely a life changing experience for both of them , especially when the queen arrives to take care of Giselle herself . Enchanted is one of the year's best movies and one of Disney's best , I guarantee it'll be a true classic down the line . The whole story was charming as well as funny and just a great time to watch , I don't know if I could pick a favorite part , there were so many to choose from , but I think the part where the prince first arrives to New York , how determined he is , he even takes on the city bus because he thinks it's a beast . For me , I think James Mardson stole the film as Prince Edward , he just played it off so perfectly and was such a pleasure to watch on the screen . Enchanted is one of the year's best films , I would highly recommend it for you or the family , it's a definite treasure of
The best musical in years !	Sweeney Todd : The Demon Barber of Fleet Street is one of the year's most talked about films , it's getting big Oscar buzz and of course , what could be better than Tim Burton taking on this dark musical ? With Johnny Depp starring along with beautiful Helena Bonham Carter by his side , this movie just screams terrific . My mom and I saw the movie today and Sweeney Todd : The Demon Barber of Fleet Street lived beyond to my expectations . Tim Burton hasn't exactly released a classic lately that would be remembered for all time , but Sweeny Todd is sure to make it's way into one of the most memorable films of 2007 . Johnny Depp and Helena both have incredible voices , they were so hauntingly beautiful and magical together , it's like these roles were made for them . Along with an equally strong cast as Alan Rickman and Sacha Baron Cohen who were also incredible , Sweeney Todd : The Demon Barber of Fleet Street is a new memorable musical for years to come . Sweeney Todd has come to London on a mission , a mission for revenge ! His wife was taken by the evil judge for his own pleasure's with her and Sweeney's daughter . Now Sweeney's daughter is grown and is being held by Judge Turpin and he has been informed by his lover , Mrs . Lovett that his wife has died . " At last my arm is complete ! " Sweeney says as he raises his faithful razor and wishes to kill the vermin of the world as well . Mrs . Lovett comes up with the clever idea to create a tasty meat pie of the victims and makes quite the popular business . But Sweeney is determined to find his daughter who is being wooed by his young friend , Anthony , and kill the judge who has taken everything from him . Sweeney Todd : The Demon Barber of Fleet Street was so beautifully shot . The reason why I love Tim Burton so much is because he knows how colors and contrasts work in a film . He knew how dark Mrs . Lovetts and Sweeney Todd are , in a picnic scene where everything is supposed to be bright , Sweeney and Lovetts are the only dark figures in the lovely setting . The music is triumphant , the songs were so memorable and almost hypnotic , I felt like was in a real Broadway audience . Sweeney Todd : The Demon Barber of Fleet Street is one of the best films of the year , I guarantee it , this was a terrific musical that was a bloody good time ! Tim Burton is back and he's better than ever with Johnny .
A fine film , Clint Eastwood has done it again !	Clint Eastwood , the master of making depressing films now makes his trilogy : Mystic River , Million Dollar Baby , and now Changeling . Based of the horrific chicken coop murders from the 1920's in California , we get a deeper insight into one of the mothers of the victims , Christine Collins who is portrayed by Angelina Jolie , queen of the never ending tears . I'm just playing , she does a terrific job and is just so heart breaking to watch her story on film , she gives Christine a lot of character and depth . The film is even made a certain way , a lot of dark colors , it seems as if it was made in old Hollywood , which was a very intelligent way of setting the mood and time of the film . We have some very fine performances pretty much from everyone in this movie . The one flaw I did feel is that the script does have some lines that are a little over done , a little too dramatic , but it really works for the film and story . Christine Collins is a single mother in the 1920's , she's a strong woman who is even ahead of some of the men in her line of work as an operator manager . But she's so busy with work that she tries to make time with her son , Walter . One day they are going to go to the movies , but Christine has to go to work , she says she'll meet Walter right back at home , she's late of course and when she gets home , Walter is missing . She calls the police , but they say she has to wait 24 hours . After a few months , the police tell her they've found her son , she couldn't be happier . . . that is until she sees a boy who is not her son . But the police will not fess up and admit they messed up , so instead of helping Christine , they treat her horribly and throw in her in an insane asylum and quite looking for her son , but the town's Rev . Gustav Briegleb will not give up and expose the police for the horrible people they are and will do anything to help Christine find her son . Changeling is a great film , one of the best of 2008 , you know this is going to be a big contender for Oscar season . I really enjoyed this film , I have to admit it had me in tears , all that this poor woman went through to find her son , the pain and mental mind , well you know the f word , that the police put her through , I felt so horrible for her . Jeffrey Donovan just plays the ultimate jerk who just keeps playing gaslight on Christine Collins forcing a child who is not her son down her throat . Although I think this film could have been a good comedy if they gave her an Asian baby or something and try to convince her then that that's her son , lol , OK , that was so bad , sorry . But seriously , this is a great film , I do highly recommend that you take the chance to see it in the theater if you can .
Just when you thought Kenneth Branagh couldn't get any better	Othello , the classic Shakespearen story of love , betrayal , lies , and tragedy . I remember studying this story in high school , actually I found Othello to be probably my favorite Shakespeare story due to the fact of how fascinating it was , the fact that Shakespeare captured the feeling of friendship , love , and racism perfectly . I mean , when you really do study this story , you could go into so many philosophies on why Othello went insane with jealousy in the blink of an eye . But later on for my report I also watched this version of Othello and I have to say that it was absolutely brilliant . Lawerance and Kenneth just capture the story so well and understood it's darkness . Othello is the big time soldier in his city , he is loved by everyone , including the king . But when the king finds out that Othello snuck off with his daughter , Desdemona , the king is infuriated , but excepts it . Othello is welcome in the city and makes his best friend , Cassio , his side man instead of Iago , who has stood by Othello . Due to his insane jealousy , he's out for revenge . Still pretending to be Othello's best friend , he just mearly hints at Othello that Desdemona is cheating on him with Cassio , never says that they are , just makes Othello think that it's happening . Othello is driven insane and doesn't have pleasant plans for Desdemona or Cassio and Iago is more than happy to help him out . Othello is an incredible story , I highly recommend that you read it . It's an incredible story that keeps you thinking after you've read it . Othello the movie is also great and once again I recommend it , it captured the story perfectly and has a big tearjerker type of feel , or you could just be in utter shock of what happens between Othello and Desdemona , how quickly he believes that his true love would betray him . This is a terrific movie , great acting , good sets , and good direction , this is what Shakespeare meant when he wrote the story .
A cool magical twist on a story !	I was really excited to see " The Illusionist " and it met up to my expectations ! I am a huge fan of Edward Norton's , he's one of today's most under rated actors , I wish I would see him in more films , but I guess we'll just have to wait and see . My only concern was Jessia Beil , she doesn't seem like the old day's type of a movie actress . She was kind of a bummer to the film , she couldn't keep up with a British accent , but she didn't do too bad of a job . But it's the others who truly keep this amazing film going . The story is about a man , Eisenheir ( spelling ? ) , he is an illusionist / magician , and we aren't just talking pulling a rabbit out of a hat , he does the most amazing tricks that would make you think that he was made of magic . But it is the duchess played by Beil who steals his heart and they have a scandalous affair since she is engaged to the emperor's son . When she attempts to leave him , she is murdered by his hand , and the chief inspector tries to find out who the murderer is . When Eisenheir starts to do amazing beyond the dead images to the public including his love , he gets into big trouble , but plays all the men with his amazing acts into a great ending ! I really hope The Illusionist does well at the awards ceremony , it deserves it . Believe me when I say that this is one of the best films I have seen in 2006 , considering what we have had , I'm extremely happy that Hollywood brought us a great and unique story . It's a great film and I can't wait for the DVD ! Thank you , Edward for bringing us a movie that could bring us our hopes for better films !
Truly a piece of work	A few months ago I saw the trailer to There Will Be Blood , at first I was a little put off , it looked very strange and a typical drawn out drama . But then a little later , I saw a different trailer that was much better and looked more interesting . So now it had all this hype and is now nominated for 7 Oscars , including best picture , finally it came to theaters in my home town and my mom and I just saw it . Now , I'm just going to get a complaint out , I think this movie was still a little drawn out , it kind of took on a Kubrick type of feel with the first twenty minutes that had no dialog . But that was the only thing that threw me off . While I'm not as in love with this movie as much as everyone else is , There Will be Blood is going to be a sure classic down the line . The direction , the acting , the script , the sets , everything about this film was done beautifully and shows the utter greed and madness that can turn men into monsters . Daniel Plainview is an oil man , he's in the business with his son , H . W . , and he goes around buying land very cheaply , and makes thousands and thousands of dollars when he strikes oil . But when he comes a town called Little Boston led by the tip of a boy named Paul , he buys the land promising the church that he will donate five thousand dollars to it . Eli , the leader of the church , claims he is a prophet and goes to the extreme to prove so with his followers . When Daniel's team is draining oil , his son is blasted away from an explosion of oil and looses his hearing , Daniel at this point just goes mad and meets a man who claims to be his brother , but he later finds out that this man lied to him . He abandons his son and is loosing all sanity , but when the church comes back to him , he claims he is saved . Years later though , he goes from business man to monster and is going to " drink Eli's milk shake " , you'll see what I mean when you see the film . There Will Be Blood is a film of utter perfection , the reason why I'm rating it so high is because it is a perfectly made film . There's nothing wrong with it , when I said it's a little drawn out , it's just my opinion . But Daniel Day Lewis pulls in a flawless performance and became Daniel Plainview , especially the end , he pulled in such a chilling side and didn't over do the dialog , which I'm sure any other actor would have done . But one performance I am particularly impressed with is Paul Dano's as Eli / Paul , Eli really got to me and was incredible during his sermons , he held his own up to Lewis . He's come a long way since the silent rebel in Litte Miss Sunshine . There Will Be Blood is a GOOD movie , I mean good in the highest regards , because how many of us can say when a film is just utterly good ? Not too often . There Will Be Blood is going to be a good contender this year for the Oscars , but we'll just have to see who'll take the best picture award , because we have some good films that are competing .
Who knew that an Austrailian and a Brit can make such great cowboys ?	I know this has been brought up before , but it was such a question with me on how they picked Russell Crowe and Christian Bale to be American cowboys ? But then I saw 3 : 10 to Yuma this afternoon , to be honest , I don't know who could have done a better job ! Christian and Russell clicked so well and brought together an awesome western film , probably the best since Unforgiven . James Mangold captured the perfect feeling of a classic western film and brought together this great cast . This is one of the first films of the summer that I'm giving a perfect 10 rating , I couldn't find one complaint about 3 : 10 to Yuma . The casting , the picture , the whole surrounding of the film was just incredible . To be honest , I wouldn't be surprised if this is going to be nominated for a couple Oscars . Ben Wade is an outlaw killer / thief who is on the run with his gang , but he is captured one day . The problem is that he has a reputation for being the fastest gun swinger in the West , so the policemen ask a man , Dan Evans if he brings him to the 3 : 10 prisoner train to Yuma for two hundred dollars . One problem , Ben's gang wants him back and will chase him , his son , Doc , and Butterfield throughout the West . Ben is just charming his way through the journey , Dan's son , William , is convinced that maybe Ben isn't all that bad , but Dan knows better and is willing to do anything to get Ben onto that train . 3 : 10 to Yuma is one of the year's best , to be honest , I'm thinking about the films this past year , and I would probably rank this as the number one movie . I was never really into western movies , except for the good , the bad , and the ugly , and unforgiven , but 3 : 10 to Yuma is a guaranteed classic . I am very much recommending this film to anyone , even those who are not into the Western films , because this is just all together a terrific film . The script , the acting , the picture , the look , 3 : 10 to Yuma is a fantastic film that should not be missed .
Makes you want to go the distance and hit someone :	" Rocky " , the movie that I always hear of . One of my friends recently told me that I can't claim to be a movie fan without seeing the " Rocky " films , and I agree . I mean , who doesn't want a feel good movie that is goal oriented and inspirational ? In the middle of the 70's decade , American movies like " Rocky " became progressively more optimistic , less concerned with social tensions . The happy ending made a comeback , as did such traditional values as the success ethic . Despite Rocky not being the sharpest tool in the box , he was tough and goal oriented and had that hungry look for the title . To be an average Joe off the streets and turned into the heavy weight champion of the world is incredible . I think that was what was so appealing to " Rocky " . This is Sylvester's best work in my opinion , and that's actually a compliment . He did a terrific job as " Rocky " . I loved the chemistry between him and Adrien , a shy girl who just needs a little push and encouragement to be someone magnificent . " Rocky " is just a great all around feel good movie that makes you want to go the distance . Push yourself to do things you'd never thought , running at the crack of dawn , eating raw eggs , or even cutting your eyes to release the pressure . OK , maybe you won't do that , but Rocky did . Watch Rocky , you'll wanna go for a run after wards . :
This has to be one of the funniest movies of all time .	Well , at least I found it to be hilarious . I really did get into the Evil Dead series , it was so silly how it even started . I just happened to have a Blockbuster gift card and bought a pre-viewed " Evil Dead " and my mom had watched it with me . Strange , right ? Well , because of her , I got to see one of the best movie trilogies of all time . Not to mention I couldn't believe the fan base these movies have . So it's good to know that I'm not alone . Army of Darkness starts where Evil Dead 2 left off . Ashley has now gone back in time to the mid-evil times where he has to find a way back to his time . But the people he has met through this time think that he is the one who will save them all from the evil dead . They promise to help him find a way back if he saves them . Along that journey , he meets a beautiful peasant girl , Sheila , and they have a romantic affair . Along his journey to save the people , he must retrieve the " Book of the Dead " , but when he slurs the words and does a half assed job of it , the book rises an evil twin of Ash's and leads his Army of Darkness to destroy the village Ash has promised to save . This movie has great laughs and is a great end to this terrific trilogy . You won't regret seeing it , trust me .
It was so good , that the next day I bought it !	Man , I cannot believe how awesome this movie was . I'm still in the aftermath of it . I can't stop thinking about it . My friend in my communication class had used the movie as a speech , and she showed the court scene . I was confused , but it seemed like a great movie . I had to see it . So , I went on a little trip to Blockbuster Video , and found it in the " Employee's Favorites " section . I must see this movie , I just had too . Well , I went home , put it on my dresser and waited ' till last minute to watch it . 2 hours before it was due back . I watched it and I was upset , I wanted to see it again . So , I went to Best Buy , and God bless them , it was $9 . 99 . I showed it to my sister and mom and they fell in love with it as well . The reason I loved this movie so much , I think is because it brings up so many good issues . And Sean Patrick Flannery is so hot . " Boondock Saints " for some reason is somewhat justified in the deaths of these mobsters . And Sean Patrick Flannery is so hot . The story is very original and awesome . And Sean Patrick Flannery is so hot . Just watch the movie . Did I mention how hot Sean Patrick Flannery is ?
As emotionally disturbing it was to watch , it ended up being an incredible surprise of a great film	When I first heard of this movie being made , I had so many debates about this film , I almost hated Oliver Stone , after all , we just had only the 5 year anniversary of . I thought he was going to make some action movie of a horrifying and nightmarish event that is still fresh in most of our memories . So , I refused to see this film , but a girl at my work told me that it wasn't like what we both expected at all and that it was a great film . So , my friend and I decided to see it , I have to say that it was beautifully done and showed great respect for that horrible day . Gratefully and I must thank Oliver Stone , he didn't reenact or computerize the planes crashing into the towers , this movie just focused mainly on the policemen and firemen who gave their lives that day and to two strong and brave policemen who ended up in the most brutal and hellish nightmare , being trapped and buried alive under tons and tons of what was a 110 story building . Their struggle was so brutal to watch , but it kept your hopes and strength alive . 95 % of the world only witnessed what happened on the outside , finally , this movie showed us what it was like to be in New York and what the firemen and policemen went through , along with their families . I have to say that it was so mentally disturbing though to see the towers in the beginning of the film , I actually started sobbing , because it's still to this day unbelievable that they're just not there . But still , it was pictured perfectly and beautifully done , I loved that they showed how much of a normal day it was for all of us before the plane hit the first tower . It's a beautifully acted and hopeful film that will make you remember that that day not only showed the worst evil in people , but it brought out some of the best and heroic acts anyone has ever witnessed . RIP to those 2800 people who lost their lives that day , you will never be forgotten . And on a special note , thank you to the firemen and policemen who fought , survived , and died on that tragic day , you may have done your job , but it was the most heroic thing anyone could have done , they saved more lives than we realized . Let's not forget .
Absolutely perfect	I saw the remake of Cape Fear before I saw the original , to be honest , I wasn't even aware there was an original for a while , I just heard of it about a year ago and I finally came across it at the video store and just had to take a look at it . Martin's version was just so brilliant and horrifying , I was curious what the original must have been like and to be honest , I don't know if I could choose the better of the two , but I think both were just different interpretations of the story . I still loved Cape Fear the original , it was so beautifully made and so horrific . Max Cady has just been released from prison and he's out for revenge on his lawyer . The lawyer who had an opportunity to actually get Cady off the hook , but " counseler " felt guilty and made sure to put Cady away . But now Cady is not only after his lawyer , he's after his family as well and he will not stop until his revenge is complete , no matter what lengths he has to go through . The actor who played Cady was just so terrific , Gregory just captured Cady's insanity so perfectly and was so believable ! The rape scene between him and Dianne , the hitch hiker , was so terrifying to watch ! He was so intimidating , just his presence , man ! What a performance ! Please , please , watch this movie along with the remake , they are both terrific films and very scary ! Cape Fear is one of those movies I will never forget .
Ladies and gentlemen : Mr . Robert De Niro !	Taxi Driver , the classic that made Robert DeNiro Robert DeNiro . It's amazing to see how far this man has come in cinema , some of my friends ask me questions about films and advice , one of my friends had asked if they wanted to see where Bobby got the big notice I usually recommend Taxi Driver , granted he was in The Godfather Part 2 and was incredible , but Taxi Driver made him stand out as a strong lead actor . Taxi Driver is just all together a great film that is absolutely perfection . Martin Scorcesse who also was just really starting out made this movie that brought us back to the film noir genre . He made this great classic and I don't even think he realized how much it would stand against the test of time , to this day we still know this film and even if you don't know it , you know the infamous speech " You talking ' to me ? " . This is a film about isolation , loneliness , and self destruction at it's worst . Travis Bickle who claims to be an honorably discharged Marine it is implied that he is a Vietnam veteran is a lonely and depressed young man of 26 . He settles in Manhattan , where he becomes a night time taxi driver due to chronic insomnia . Bickle spends his restless days in seedy porn theaters and works 12 or 14 hour shifts during the evening and night time hours carrying passengers among all five boroughs of New York City . Bickle becomes interested in Betsy , a campaign volunteer for New York Senator Charles Palantine . She is initially intrigued by Bickle and agrees to a date with him after he flirts with her over coffee and sympathizes with her own apparent loneliness . On their date , however , Bickle is clueless about how to treat a woman and thinks it would be a good idea to take her to a sex film . Offended , she leaves him and takes a taxi home alone . The next day he tries to reconcile with Betsy , phoning her and sending her flowers , but all of his attempts are in vain . Rejected and depressed , Bickle's thoughts begin to turn violent . Disgusted by the petty street crime that he witnesses while driving through the city , he now finds a focus for his frustration and begins a program of intense physical training . He buys a number of pistols from an illegal dealer and practices a menacing speech in the mirror , while pulling out a pistol that he attached to a home-made sliding action holster on his right arm " You talking ' to me ? " . Bickle is revolted by what he considers the moral decay around him . One night while on shift , Iris , a 12-year-old child prostitute , gets in his cab , attempting to escape her pimp . Shocked by the occurrence , Bickle fails to drive off and the pimp , Sport , reaches the cab . Later seeing Iris on the street he pays for her time , although he does not have sex with her and instead tries to convince her to leave this way of life behind . But after her rejection as well , Travis decides to take things into his own hands , " Pow ! " . This is one of the most memorable movies of all time and has really stood it's ground . It's personally one of my favorites and made me fall in love with Robert DeNiro all over again . The script to Taxi Driver is just so incredibly powerful and the performances were just perfect . Jodie Foster , this little girl at the time was such a presence on screen , she pulls in what was a very tricky performance and was hauntingly beautiful . Cybill Sheppard was also very beautiful and I was absolutely in love with her character and felt so bad for her . Everything about Taxi Driver is just great , I don't know how much I could go on about the love I have for this film . It's a film that you will never forget and trust me , if you haven't seen it , go out and rent it immediately , you won't regret it . It's bloody , it's twisted , it's crazy , but it's one of the best films of all time .
It got me thinking	My roommate had bought this documentary and invited me to watch it with her . She's from China and only heard so much about and wanted to know the cold hard truth and she wanted me to tell her more after the documentary . I felt awful watching this documentary , it was like reliving the nightmare and it still brings tears to my eyes . But I'm extremely grateful that I watched this documentary , because on the day of September 11th , I'm sure we all remember where we were and what we were doing when we heard , all of us could only think certain questions : " Why ? " , " How ? " , " What's going on ? " , " Oh , my God ! " . Almost all the Americans were grateful for the brave firemen and policemen that risked their lives to save others . But I don't think we thought about what they were really going though . This wasn't actually supposed to be a documentary about , the cameraman was just filming a typical day on the job and they just happened to be a couple blocks away from the World Trade Centers and got everything , outside and in , on tape . On Sep . 11th , I thought to myself " It's OK , the policemen and firemen will get the people out that survived " . To be honest , I thought it was an accident , I was in my junior year of high school and getting changed from gym and getting ready to go to my science class . Someone came into the locker room shouting " Some building just got bombed in New York ! " , we all got dressed quickly and ran to our classrooms as we watched the first tower burning on TV . Not only 15 seconds later live on TV does the second plane crash into the other World Trade Center and we knew this was no accident . A few minutes later , we heard about the Pentagon and that there was a plane headed for Chicago but was shot down . So many thoughts ran through our heads and I kept on thinking " What are the firemen and policemen going to do ? " . But it's procedure to them I thought , they'll know what to do . The first tower collapsed , we knew it , so many lives are now gone , the second tower crashed , things would never be the same . Those firemen in this documentary showed courage , confusion , and strength , the real raw human emotions . They didn't know what to do , they were just as scarred as those other people who were in the towers . They heard the bodies collapsing on the ground from people jumping out the windows . And here I was in a classroom just crying seeing all that was going on on TV . I was amazed with this film and just wanted to go to New York and tell them how grateful all the Americans were for their help . I know they feel like they were just doing their job , but they did more , they were hero's . Every day after Sep . 11th for 3 weeks they kept on digging knowing that there were no survivors , but they kept on hoping and praying . May God bless their kind and brave hearts . As for my roommate she was crying and admitted this was her first time crying at these attacks . She got to see the truth of what had happened that tragic day . She asked " Why ? " . I didn't know what to say , it breaks my heart that people can be that evil . " It sounds clique ' , but it was a normal day for everyone " one of the firemen said in the documentary . No one expected this to happen . Not like that , those people in the World Trade Centers or the Pentagon or the planes that were hijacked , they were just doing their job , happen to be there , or even just was there for a second passing by . They were not just murdered , they were slaughtered , and those hijackers did it with a song in their heart . Then seeing in the middle east all the people celebrating , why do people do this ? They celebrated death and the lose of : mothers , fathers , sisters , brothers , friends , grandparents , aunts , uncles , cousins , etc . Why ? So , thanks to those people for making this documentary . You truly think about the firemen , policemen , and the troops in Iraq and it keeps your hope up that there are good people in this world . Thank you to all those people , you are our heroes .
Words could never describe this film	" The Passion of the Christ " was beyond intense and disturbing . I could not believe my eyes and what I was seeing . This was the first time for everything in a theater that I have seen . First , I was crying histerically . Usually , I don't cry that much the first time I have seen a film . Secondly , I was screaming " Stop hurting him ! " at the screen . That was how much I was into the film . Third , my best friend was holding my hand to her head . She kept covering her eyes . Fourth , people were walking out crying and saying " I can't take it anymore ! " . There were screams during Jesus's " punishment " . There is a lot more to describe . But that would take a while . The movie is incredible . Brilliantly made , intense acting , and very painful scenes to watch . I was a little surprised at this movie not being on the top 250 . Who knows , maybe after a while , people will get used to it . I probably won't see this again , because it was too painful to watch . It's like " Schindler's List " , a wonderful movie . But you can't watch it over and over again . Congrats , Mel . You've done it again .
Absolutley Brilliant	After every great review of " Se7en " , I knew I just had to see this movie . I was greatly impressed with this exciting thriller . The beginning was starting a little rocky for me , but everything came in just right . Almost perfect , I really loved this movie . Everything about it . The acting , the sets , the effects . Morgan Freeman and Brad Pitt are amazing in the film with the fine cameo of Kevin Spacey as John Doe . Even though I knew what would happen at the end due to everyone telling me . But I was still more than into this film . I'd recommend this highly .
I know that this was not the intention of the film , but Lars and the Real Girl is one of the saddest movies I've seen	When I was reading what was considered to be the best films of 2007 , Lars and the Real Girl came up quite a few times , I wasn't sure since I had never heard of it before . But I decided to rent it and see what it was about , I watched the film last night and this was not only the most charming film I've seen , but for me it was one of the saddest . I think it just touched me how much this town stuck together to help one friend and get him back from a " delusion " , just unfortunately , it was semi-unrealistic at times , and I think that's what made me very sad , not to mention how lonely a person can get , I think we forget that sometimes . But the script was just so wonderful and Lars was just this character who actually didn't really seem crazy , like this dummy fantasy was something that made him come out of his shell , this story was just so beautiful . Lars is a shy and quiet man who just keeps to himself all the time , everyone always begs him to join the crowd , but he always backs down . But when his co-worker shows him a website with a " create your own sex doll " , Lars gets one , but not exactly for the purpose of sex , more like it's his girlfriend . Not like he's ashamed , he thinks she's real , her name is Bianca , and he even asks his brother and sister in law to keep Bianca in their house . Instead of hospitalizing Lars , the town pulls together and helps Lars by treating Bianca like a real person . Lars starts to come out of his shell and then even notices a girl , Margo , but he realizes that maybe Bianca isn't everything he's wanted in life . Lars and the Real Girl is seriously one of the sweetest films ever . Everything about this film was just wonderful and it was such a pleasure to watch . To be honest I am surprised that Ryan Gosling didn't get an Oscar nomination for Lars , he is one of the most touching characters in film that I've seen in a while . His scene with Bianca , the last one where he kisses her , there are no words , but it was such a touching scene , I turned into such a girl ( I am a girl , but I don't get all sappy normally ) , I cried so hard , it was just a beautiful scene . I would highly recommend Lars and the Real Girl , it's a great movie , has terrific performances , and just an original and lovely script .
Makes me sick	I'm a very proud American , I love this country , we have a lot of freedom , great food , kind people , and we stick together in a time of need , except for one thing , when it comes to health and debt , our country isn't the brightest bulb in the tanning bed . Health care in our country is horrible , Michael Moore didn't need to point that out , except for those select few that health insurance came pretty easily to them . While I do agree with Michael Moore's documentary , he does do a biased opinion . America does have the medicine and every machine possible to help run tests , the only problem is that doctors have now become more about money than helping people , insurance denials take away life saving tests and operations , among with other major flaws like what the insurance company can handle and pay for . Michael Moore takes this documentary to point out how hard it is in America and how scary it is to get sick if you have no health insurance . America is one of the lowest countries in the world when it comes to health , other countries that we have labeled as " third world " are extremely kind and have free or cheaper health care where the doctors seem to really care about their patients . In this documentary we meet several people who either have or don't have health insurance and what has effected their lives with their failing health . Including a very sad story about volunteers who America seemed to forget about and their health is now deteriorating because they were not on the pay roll like the fire fighters or policemen , so they've been refused treatment . Sicko does hit home even more , a couple years ago I was without insurance , it was scary , I told my mom if I got into a car accident , my car would be OK , but what about me ? Even now my insurance has so many catches and doesn't cover everything , but there is only so much you can do in life . While I think that Moore does forget about certain pro's of American Health Care , he does make his point across with how other countries seem to really care about each other . I did have a customer at my work who was visiting from Canada , I commented how great it must be to have free health care and she said that they do pay it in taxes , but I feel like at least they're still covered , it's a different kind of insurance and I really hope that America will change it's health care system . Unfortunately , I don't think it will happen any time soon , but this documentary will open eyes .
A true story of family , friends , sisterhood , heartbreak , and love	I found " Sense and Sensibilty " to be one of the most charming movies I have seen since " Finding Neverland " . It has a very warm feeling and is very welcoming . The story is absolutely beautiful . In the 1990's , all of Jane Austen's huge novels were made into movies and some even in television series . Most of them were very good , but Sense and Sensibility really stood out and was the best . Most thanks to Emma Thompson and her brilliant screenplay , which was also her first . Kudos to her , she seems like a fine and intelligent woman . I found out that this screenplay took her about 4 years to have the final draft done . She also couldn't translate some of the novel into the book so she took some of Austen's letters and put them into the movie . The acting is absolutely on key and all of the actors fit quite well into their roles . I enjoy period pieces thourelly , if you don't , you might want to skip it . But I would recommend this picture any day . It's very beautiful and a wonderful movie to watch . It has some of the finest British actors : Allen Rickman , Emma Thompson , Kate Winslet , and Hugh Grant . So give it a chance , I think you'll be pleasantly surprised .
" I had the most obsurd nightmare , I was poor , no one liked me . Phinellipe hated me , and it was all because of this terrible awful negro "	John Landis is one of the major kings of directors . He knows comedy , he knows what people like , he just knows everything there is to know about movie making . This probibly is his best movie ever . It's very funny and intelligent . ( I mean the experiment was interesting . ) You love every character and they actually get what they deserve . So , believe me , you wouldn't regret watching this movie . It's a perfect comedy . Just have fun .
Another hilarious movie that I almost died laughing at	I don't know how many things I have heard about A Fish Called Wanda , it just seems to go on and on . I've heard references from the game " Scene it ? " , the book " 1001 movies you must see before you die " , and Bravo's " 100 funniest movies of all time " . This movie I have just not been able to get away from and lucky enough my mom had this movie on VHS , so I watched it a couple nights ago , and I nearly died laughing at this movie . All the characters , you can't really choose a favorite because of the fact that despite their bad behavior , you love them . I have to say my favorite scene was when Otto was trying to get information from Ken and he tied him up , and when he was sticking the french fries up his nose and eating Ken's live fish . Oh , my God ! I was just laughing too hard for words . Every line in this movie is beyond funny and the scenes are just great . Each skit works together and the cast had such a good time , you could tell .
Despite the story being used a million times , this is a very funny film	My cousin had called me from London a few months ago and told me about this film . She also asked if there were any trailers or release dates in the states , I didn't know . I never even heard of the film , but it sounded hysterical . I did see the theatrical trailer a week later , but I was saddened that there was no theater around that was playing this flick . Finally it came out for rent , and I grabbed it immediately . I'm glad I did . The things that got me about this movie , is that it reminds me so much of my friends . If there is a huge crisis , I'm so much like Ed , I'm just calm and with whatever goes and my best friend is so much like Shaun , it's scary how her and I could relate . These boys are so hung over from the night before and their reaction the first zombie in Shaun's backyard is priceless . " Oh , my god ! She's so drunk ! " and Ed getting a picture when she attacks Shaun because he thinks that she's just hitting on him ! LOL ! The references to past zombie movies were great " We're coming to get you , Barbara ! " . Priceless . I love this movie a lot ! This movie is so funny ! Even though Dawn of the Dead ( 2004 ! ! ! ! ! ) was a great movie , this movie brings up all the sarcasms of the original , along with any other zombie movie . I would highly recommend this movie for a good laugh . The ending is the best part and highly touching . . . don't ask . Good job , UK ! ! !
One of the funniest cartoon movies ever	When I was a kid , I loved " Tiny Toons " . I especially loved " Tiny Toons : How I spent my Summer Vacation " . I thought it was laughs on the floor funny . A few years later , my friend had the video . And I figured I'd watch it for the good old days . I was still on the floors laughing . My opinion , the Plucky and Hampton skit is the best . They decide to go to " Happy World Land " . And they end up having a crazy adventure to get there . All the skits are funny . I'm still looking for the video . So , if anyone has any tips . Please write me . This is one of the funniest cartoons I have ever seen .
One of my favorite movies of all time !	Seriously , I know that sounds stupid as this is an animated movie , but why can't we have a favorite movie that's animated ? If you ask me this is Disney's best animated film of all time . Why do you ask ? The animation is just beautiful , the story is powerful and moving , the characters are terrific , the villain is one of Disney's most monstrous and the songs are out of this world incredible ! Not only is it my favorite animated movie , this is one of my favorite soundtracks , with the strong power of Elton John The Lion King is absolutely beautiful and a pleasure to watch still to this day . I have to say also that this story is just so beautiful , it's still one of the movies that will always bring a tear to my eye . When I was 17 years old , I begged my dad to take me to the re-release of The Lion King , him and I being the only adults besides the parents who took their children to see the movie , Simba's father dies and I started balling ! My dad looks around and said " Krissy , stop it ! " and I just said " But it's so saaaaad ! Simba's daddy ! " , yes I'm a sap , I can't help it , this is a powerful movie . In the Pride Lands , Rafiki , a wise old monkey , anoints Simba , the newborn cub of King Mufasa and Queen Sarabi , and presents him to a gathering of animals at Pride Rock . Taking advantage of the cub's naive nature , Simba's scheming uncle Scar , who is very angry because Simba's birth means that he's no longer next in line to the throne tells him about the elephant graveyard , a place where Mufasa has forbidden Simba to go . Simba asks his mother if he can go to the water-hole with his best friend , Nala , but they go to the graveyard instead . There , the cubs are met by Shenzi , Banzai and Ed , 3 hyenas who try to kill them , but they are rescued by Mufasa . But Scar doesn't give up there , he lures Simba into a gorge for a " surprise from his father " while the hyenas create a wildebeest stampede . Alerted by Scar , Mufasa races to rescue Simba from the stampede . He saves his son but is left clinging to the edge of a steep cliff . Scar flings his brother into the stampede below . Simba sees his father fall and rushes down the cliff after him , only to find him dead . Scar convinces Simba that he was responsible for his father's death and recommends that he runs away from the Pride Lands to avoid punishment . In a distant desert , Simba is found unconscious by Timon and Pumbaa , a duo who adopt and raise the cub under their worry-free philosophy , Hakuna Matata . When Simba has grown into an adult he is discovered by Nala , who tells him that Scar , through his irresponsibility , has turned the Pride Lands into a barren wasteland . She asks Simba to return and take his place as king but Simba refuses , still believing he caused his father's death . Rafiki arrives and persuades Simba to return to the Pride Lands , and face Scar once and for all . I know that still that Beauty and the Beast is the only animated film to get a best picture nomination , but I don't understand why The Lion King didn't get the same treatment . I adore this film with such a passion , I will always defend it to the high end . I still watch this movie , ever since it's theatrical release in 1994 , I still sing , dance , and rehears the lines back and forth . How could you not at least with Hakuna Matata ? Timon is my idol , he's so care free , funny , and awesome during his drag hula scene ? " Luau ! If you're hungry for a hunk of fat and juicy meat , eat my buddy Pumbaa here , ' cause he's a tasty treat come on down and dine , on this tasty swine , all you gotta is get in line , are you achin ' , ? For some bacon ? He's a big pig . You can be a big pig , too . Oy ! ? Ahhhh ! " , best scene ever in film history ! OK , not in history , but one of my favorites , it always has me on the floor laughing till my stomach hurts . If you seriously haven't seen this movie , see it ! Who said that animated movies can't be true art ? The Lion King is a fantastic film and deserves all it's praise and more .
If you are going to see one movie in the theaters this year , see The Departed !	Oh , my God , what an incredible film ! Of course , how could we ever expect anything less from Martin Scorcesse ? ! He is so brilliant and has brought us another instant mafia classic ! He's working with the big stars today , Leonardo DiCaprio , Jack Nicholson , Mark Wahlberg , Matt Damon , Martin Sheen , Anthony Anderson , you get the idea . The Departed lives up to it's reviews , plus more ! It's about a man named William , played by DiCaprio , he's trying his best to be a cop , but do to his violent past and family , is put on probation and can only join if he does a special assignment for Oliver , Martin Sheen , and Digman , Mark Wahlberg . That is to spy on Frank , played by Jack Nicholson , the leader of the mafia in Boston , and find out information that will put him behind bars . But there is one other problem , there is a rat in the FBI gang that William is trying to get into , Colin is informing Frank that there is a rat in his mafia gang and will capture William . Who's the true rat ? You'll just have to see ! This movie is amazing on so many levels , it's not just the acting or picture , it's the story . It kept me going ' till the end , I just loved every scene . I think my favorite was how one of the mobsters , not knowing that Leo is the rat , tells him to meet them at an address where the unknown rat is with the chief of the FBI is , and he gives Leo the wrong address accidentally , but . . . well , if you've seen the movie , you'll know what I'm talking about , but I don't want to give any spoilers . This is without a doubt the best movie of 2006 hands down ! Has anyone else noticed why movies are getting better this year ? They are being directed by the classic artist : Martin Scorcesse and Francis Ford Coppola ! The real artists , they are incredible and are bringing us terrific films ! Please , like I said , see this movie the theater ! You will not be disappointed !
Hard not to love August Rush	I rented August Rush a few days ago with good expectations , I just heard wonderful things about this film , so I was excited to see it . I watched the film last night and I am very much in love with this movie , everything about it was just so sweet and lovely . This movie reminded me of the story of Oliver Twist , it's a different take on the story with the power of music and just listening . The cast , the story , the editing , the direction , the music , nothing is off about August Rush . Freddie Highmore has such an incredible talent for such a young age , but his face says so much and his acting is just perfect and makes the audience just fall in love with him . Keri Russell is just pulling in one great performance to another , from Waitress to August Rush , she's just lovely . We also have the talented Jonathan Rhys Meyers from the Tudors , the incredible Terrence Howard , then a disturbing yet memorable performance from Robin Williams . Evan Taylor is an orphan who is just convinced that he can hear his parent's music , that they do want him and he goes out to find them . Lyla and Louis , Evan's parents , were two young people who found a strong connection and had a one night stand , but Lyla's father takes her away from Louis and when a horrible accident happens , Lyla's father lies to her telling her that her baby died , but behind her back puts the baby up for adoption . Evan is set to find his parents but come across a musical group of kids , who are making money for Wizzard , when Evan plays music , it's magical , Wizzard exposes Evan giving him a new name , August Rush and makes money off of him . But when Lyla finds out about her son being alive , she goes to New York to find him , Louis starts thinking about Lyla and finds out where she lives , Chicago , but when he finds out she's gone , he goes to New York to relive his band days , instead they find each other and the musical genius their love created . August Rush is one of the first films of the year that I'm rating a perfect 10 , because there is nothing wrong with this film , to be honest , I think it deserves a higher rating than a 7 . 4 . Is this a masterpiece ? No , I'm not sure if it will be remembered several years from now , but I do know that this was a great movie and I would be so happy to watch it again . It's perfect for the family to watch , it's perfect for a group of friends , or just even for yourself if you are looking for a good movie to watch . August Rush is a movie that I'm sure will work it's way into your heart , it's a magical film that is absolutely perfect .
The Perfect Action Movie !	Die Hard , one of the greatest action movies of all time , still to this day , it's more impressive than ever . If you were to look in the dictionary and look up the word action , this movie would probably be shown , lol . My mom was just absolutely in love with this film and told me how much I should see it if I love action movies , also I had become a Bruce Willis fan , so when she mentioned that , I decided to sit down and watch it . It's not just Bruce Willis that makes this movie , although he does a fantastic job as the ultimate hero , his line delivery is always perfectly on cue and he's just such a cool guy that anyone could love . But for me it was Alan Rickman who truly steals the film , he is the ultimate bad guy and his voice was just so creepy , I love him . But all together the cast and special effects truly make this a memorable film for generations to come . John McClane is a police officer who has taken his career very seriously , a little too seriously since his wife is about to divorce him and he's about to loose his children . When John comes to see his wife , Holly , at her office building during the company Christmas party , he asks if he can be given a second chance , but that gets slightly interrupted when terrorists enter the building . Hans Gruber , the leader of the terrorists , wants 600 million dollars of bonds from the company's owner . But with John in the building , he's gonna have a hard time because John is on his case will make sure to give him a roller coaster of a crime bust . This is without a doubt the most exciting action movie since The Terminator . I love the whole idea of this taking place around Christmas , it just adds a little more dark humor . Especially the way that Alan Rickman says " Now I have a machine gun . Ho . . . Ho . . . Ho " , it was just so perfect ! I really love Die Hard , I am officially a fan , this is just the most awesome movie to watch . Believe me , it's that good , I highly recommend this movie for anyone , it's a lot of fun , I guarantee you that you will not be disappointed .
Such a great movie , very under rated	One of my favorite childhood memories of all time , the live action Jungle Book , in 1967 we had a classic animated movie of the same title , it's a great movie , has fun music and terrific characters . When my family bought the movie The Jungle Book , I don't think they realized the surprise that we got when we just enjoyed watching this film . It's strange because this is made a little more for the grown up crowd vs . the children , but still I absolutely loved The Jungle Book and every time I see it , I admire it a little more for different reasons . The story , the setting , the actors , I don't know what it was about this film that I just love so much , but it holds a special place in my heart . In the Victorian period , Mowgli is the five-year-old son of a wilderness guide who accompanies his father on a hunting trip in the jungles of their native India . Mowgli becomes close friends with a British girl named Kitty Brydon , whose father , Colonel Geoffrey Brydon , commissioned the hunt . When Shere Khan attacks the camp and kills Mowgli's father , the boy and the wolf are lost in the confusion and are left to fend for themselves . Bagheera finds them and leads Mowgli to the wolf pack . Mowgli is befriended by the animals of the jungle including Baloo the bear cub , and they develop an unspoken bond as the growing boy learns to survive . While in the wild , the Bander-Log steal the bracelet Kitty gave him . Years later , after growing to adulthood , Mowgli once again encounters Kitty , who still lives in India with her father and her arrogant and deceitful suitor , Captain William Boone . Kitty and Mowgli recognize each other , and while his powers of speech are rusty , Kitty reintroduces Mowgli to civilization with the help of Dr . Julius Plumford and Mowgli introduces Kitty to his friends in the jungle . However , after spending most of his life in the jungle , Mowgli does not feel at home among the rude and snobbish aristocrats who are friends with Kitty's family . He falls in love with Kitty , but wants to go back to the jungle and to be with his real family . The Jungle Book is an incredibly good movie that I highly recommend . It has great laughs , like watching Mowgli learning how to becoming " civilized " in society with the help of Dr . Plumford and seeing how Plumford is also trying to learn from Mowgli how to be in touch with nature . I loved to love story between Mowgli and Kitty , it was so lovely and their kiss was one of those sappy moments that got a big " Awww ! ! ! " from me . Then there's one of the saddest movie moments ever , when Baloo gets shot and Mowgli finds him and just lies with him crying , then Dr . Plumford reveals Baloo at the end of the movie and I cry in joy , they had me on so many rollar coaster rides of emotions . But seriously if you haven't seen this movie , I would recommend it very much , it's a very special film and deserves more recognition .
Absolutely hilarious !	Released straight to video , " Stewie Griffin : The Untold Story ! " is a barrel of laughs ! Any Family Guy fan will enjoy this movie . Even though I'm not the biggest fan , I enjoy the Stewie jokes and bless one of my friends , he was kind enough to buy this for my belated birthday present . I just couldn't stop laughing , this was just so funny . I was a little surprised though , since it was released straight to video , they bleeped some of the swear words . But it's still a lot of fun to watch and the parodies are great . I would highly recommend this if you are a fan of Family Guy or at least like the jokes .
The # 1 rule of seduction is don't fall in love !	" Dangerous Liaisons " is this incredible movie that is so under rated . It's the battle of the sexes and this book was written over 200 years ago ! I love to know that there was this same problem that we still have to this day . That's why enjoyed " Dangerous Liaisons " so much because it proves that we have so many differences from the opposite sexes . Men are usually expected to have sex and with a few clever words destroy women's reputations in minutes , while women have to be careful of sleeping with whom , because it's considered shameful . Glenn Close plays Marquise Isabelle de Merteuil , a proper lady with a secretive double life of sex and wishing to destroy a girl's reputation for revenge on her ex for dumping her for this young lady . She also makes a bet with her closest friend , Vicomte Sébastien de Valmont played by John Malkovich , that he could not bed a lady of such high stature and morals , in return if he succeeds , he will finally have the conquest he's been dreaming of , bedding Marquise Isabelle . I don't care what people say , this was Glenn's best performance and she was so brilliant . Her speech of " Dominate your sex and avenge my own " was perfect and as a woman I rooted for her in the story . She is a tragic figure that was over looked by many as just another slut . Glenn had my sympathy and I agreed with a lot of her dialog . John as Valmont was absolutely perfect , he's not that sexy looking but has such charm and charisma on the screen you believe him as a lady's man . " It's beyond my control " , he repeats this several times throughout the film and it becomes more darker each and every time he says it to Michelle's character . He does the Marquise a favor of bedding young Cecile to help the Marquise's plan of revenge and does such a good job . It was almost too easy for him , but he has a more difficult task of bedding Madame Marie de Tourvel who is married and has very high morals and standards of God and love . He falls in love with her in the process of getting to know her and is so believable , you can see how it breaks his heart to break her's . But he feels he must stand by his reputation and your own heart goes out to him despite his cruel manors as a " man " . Michelle Pfeiffer as Marie de Tourvel is so beautiful and elegant and is the only one who knows of Valmont's true side . But she cannot help but fall for his charm and love for her , when she talks to his aunt , this is one of the most true speeches ever in cinema that all women can relate too " I'm sorry to say this but those who are most worthy of love are never made happy by it . Do you still think men love the way we do ? No . . . men enjoy the happiness they feel . We can only enjoy the happiness we give . They are not capable of devoting themselves exclusively to one person . So to hope to be made happy by love is a certain cause of grief . " That is so incredibly and painfully true that Marie knows better but can't help but give herself to Valmont . Swoosie Kurtz , Uma Thurman , and Mildred Natwick are all so exceptional and amazing as well in the film . They truly bring the story to life and keep it going with their dialog and actions . Keanu ? Shudder , his acting is like . . . how do I put this delicately ? I think it's . . . wood . : ) Otherwise , trust me this is one of the best movies of all time . This deserves higher than a 7 . 6 and should be in the top 250 . But it's beyond my control . :
Probably the best comedy movie to watch	I'm not joking . I was discussing this with my friends the other day on what is probably the best comedies to watch . I was tied between " Young Frankenstein " and " Ferris Bueller's Day Off " . Ferris Bueller is a classic teen comedy that deserves all the # 10 ratings from fellow users on IMDb . Ferris Bueller is a teenager who fakes out his parents on being sick , even though it is his worst performance of being ill , somehow it works and his parents let him stay home . He takes the gorgeous day outside , takes his really sick best friend and his girlfriend and goes into beautiful Chicago for a blast of good times . I'm not kidding fellow Chicagoians , this is the best Chicago movie ! Ferris has two problems though , his principal who is sick of being made a fool of and decides to bust Ferris on his fake illness . And his sister Jeanie , who cares more about Ferris's life than her own and just wants to prove that he's faking it . Even though , you have to admit that it's a bit unrealistic that it is broadcast throughout Chicago that Ferris is " dying " and no one notices that he's singing in the Chicago parade , on a field trip to the Art Institute with an elementary class , getting " snootie " with a waiter at Chicago's finest restaurant , and catching the Cub's home run ball at Wrigley Field , you just have fun and cannot stop laughing . So sit , back and enjoy . " Yup , life moves pretty fast . If you don't stop and take a look around once in a while , you might miss it " . : )
It's brutal , disturbing , and scary . And I loved it !	Don't worry , I'm not one of those sick twisted psychopathic maniacs who get off on this stuff . But I really did enjoy this movie . Yes ! I finally saw the famous " Scarface " , and I understand why a lot of people like this film . Along with " Casino " , this movie should be boosted up to the top 250 . I'm sick and tired of seeing these great movies not appreciated . Yes , it's very disturbing and violent . But so is " The Godfather " , " Goodfellas " , and " Kill Bill Vol . 1 " . And those are on the top 250 . Why not boost " Scarface " and " Casino " ? I'd say , they deserve it . This is a fantastic movie . Come on , Scarface fans ! Let's get this up on the list .
Boy , for playing a nerd , Jeff Goldblum has quit the body	The Fly is a great Sci-Fi thriller that brings excitement to the screen that the original did not . Even though , yes , it can be a bit much to watch with all that , eew , vomiting . I think any true Sci-Fi or horror fan would admit that this is a great movie to watch at midnight . I'm not even really sure why I love this movie , I just think you need a good scare every once in a while and the ending is always a shocker . Jeff Goldblum plays Seth Brendel , a scientist and meets Veronica played by then wife Geena Davis , she is a journalist trying to find a break-through story that can make her career . Seth interests her with his telepods , only these aren't just any normal telepods , they can transfer things from place to place . Only it has not been perfected to where it can transfer a living creature and Seth offers Veronica or he calls her Ronnie , to stay with him and film what will happen when he perfects it . There Ronnie and Seth fall for each other and begin an affair while trying to perfect the machines . There is one little past problem of Ronnie's , her ex and boss , Stathis played by John Getz , he wants Ronnie back , but she refuses and continues the project . When she's gone away from Seth , he gets drunk and goes into the telepod not even sure of the results to come , a fly accidentally gets into the machine with him and he telepods successfully ! Everything seems fine at first , until a cut he got earlier starts to have tough hair Ronnie notices . When Seth tries to get her into the telepod , she refuses being too scared understandably , he tells her that he'll get another person who'll do it . We notice also that his face is starting too look a little bit more rough , he's only eating sweets , and now has amazing strength . When he scares off another girl as Ronnie warns her " Be afraid , be very afraid " , Seth tells Ronnie to leave and never come back . But now Seth has a bigger problem , he's now loosing his body parts and collecting the " Seth Brendel Museum " , he is grossly disfigured when he begs Ronnie to come back into his life and help him . He cannot even eat solid foods any more , he has to vomit on it and make it into liquid , Ronnie loves Seth that she continues to see him and get him help . When it seems that Seth is first frightened of what the results will be , he starts to embrace it with his amazing strength and ability to crawl on the walls and wants to become Brendal Fly ! It's worth a Nobel prize or two don't you think ? When Ronnie begs Stathus for help , she shows him some video of what Seth is capable of , she has a new problem , she's pregnant with SETH'S baby ! She wants an abortion , but when Seth secretly finds out , he's hurt that she'd want to kill the child and he decides the only cure for him is if he and she ( with the baby inside her ) get in the telepods together and form the ultimate family of one person ! " The Fly " is a creative and gross but nevertheless awesome movie with great performances and keeps you on the edge of your seat . I don't think you will be disappointed . It's just a fun watch for a midnight with your friends and you want a good scare . The effects are cool and not cheap and the make up , well , eesh ! You might want a blanket to put up by your face . :
Adorable	The Fox and the Hound , one of Disney's forgotten treasures , I honestly don't know why this movie is more noticed by people . This is one of my favorite animated movies of all time , it's innocent , it's simple , it's lovely , and just a wonderful tale about the most unlikely pair becoming the best of friends . The Fox and the Hound , yeah , it does go a little overboard on the cuteness factor with baby Tod and baby Copper , but this is when Disney really did mean well and came up with such a sweet and wonderful story that is classic . After a young red fox is orphaned , he is adopted the Widow Tweed , she names him Tod . Meanwhile , Tweed's neighbor , a hunter named Amos Slade , brings home a young hound puppy named Copper and introduces him to his hunting dog Chief . Tod and Copper become playmates , and vow to remain " friends forever . " Slade grows frustrated at Copper for constantly wandering off to play , and places him on a leash . While playing with Copper at his home , Tod awakens Chief . Slade and Chief chase him until they are stopped by Tweed . After an argument , Slade says that he intends to kill Tod at his first opportunity . Hunting season comes and Slade takes his dogs into the wilderness for the interim . Meanwhile , Big Mama explains to Tod that his friendship with Copper cannot continue , as they are natural enemies , but Tod refuses to believe her . Months pass , and Tod and Copper reach adulthood . On the night of Copper's return , Tod sneaks over to meet him . Copper explains that he is a hunting dog now and things are now going to be different between them . The Fox and the Hound is such a great movie , honestly if you don't like this film , I don't know what's wrong with you , but you need to get something checked because everything about this film is just wonderful . The songs , animation and characters are just lovely . Plus there are some fun jokes , I loved seeing Chief constantly chasing after Tod and then Slade runs over to Tweed's house to scream about the fox but she just kicks his butt and tells him to get off her property . This is such a great movie , I highly recommend you see it if you get the chance .
One of my new favorite romantic comedies	Lately , I have been really been getting into the classics , not to mention some new favorite actors . I always had wondered what the Marilyn Monroe movies were like . Because I always did love her in Some Like it Hot . She's not like today's actresses , she's not a stick , she looks so cute and like she has fun on screen . Not to mention she was a very beautiful actress . The Seven Year Itch is a great romantic comedy where a man has sent his wife and son into the country while he works on his business over the summer . But after 7 years of marriage , he meets the new house sitter , played by Marilyn , and falls completely for her , causing a 7 year itch . He has also a wild imagination and just let's it go with him thinking he'll get caught , what if his wife is cheating on him , or what his life would be like if he was with Marilyn instead of his wife . This is a very charming and lovable romantic comedy and will remain with that timeless image of Marilyn's white dress blowing up in the air . She's so adorable and anyone can easily become a fan of her's when they see this movie . It's a fun movie to watch and I highly recommend it .
This was the coolest movie ever !	I used to watch the X-Men cartoons constantly when I was a kid , so over all I knew their stories pretty well , I was very enthused when I heard about X-Men the movie , so automatically , I saw it in theater , even though I liked the movie , I felt it had no justice to the stories and back rounds . The second one had a little more taste and even more fancy shamcy effects that seemed to overpower the movie . The third X-Men was so awesome and effective to the story . It was a really nice completion to the X-Men story , if this is the last movie , we're not sure . But basically , now the mutants have a " cure " , it comes from a young boy who can turn all the mutants back to humans . This is good for some mutants who want a normal life , but it makes you wonder if the humans are just trying to hide from what fate has brought to them . Gee , like we don't have that going on today with certain subjects . ; ) The story is so beautiful and wonderfully done . It still had a comic book feel along with great eye candy to boot . The cast looked like they had so much fun making this film and it had great lines . I would HIGHLY recommend X-Men : The Last Stand , it's a terrific movie that I guarantee you will not want to miss . This is my favorite out of the three , it stuck to the story and made a great conclusion to our hero's end .
The same geniuses that created " Nightmare Before Christmas " bring us back to another classic : " Corpse Bride "	I know this is a hot argument on the message boards right now , I prefer " Nightmare Before Christmas " . I don't think anyone can touch that movie , but " Corpse Bride " came very close . " Corpse Bride " was a great movie . It was beautifully made with a great story to kick . We have got a big cast here : Johnny Depp , Emily Watson , Helena Boheim Carter , Chistopher Lee , and Tracy Ulman just to name a few . We have catchy songs and a great story that keeps you glued to your seat . All I can really say is that try to let the movie stand on it's own . I don't want to compare it to " Nightmare " because these are two different movies , yes , they are both made the same way . But they have different stories . I would highly recommend " Corpse Bride " . I'm not really sure if this is for the kids under 8 , it's not Disney and it doesn't have any brightness to it . But enjoy the movie , it's a good one .
Very Funny	Ever since I was a little girl , I have always loved " Love at First Bite " . This movie is just great and hilarious . I remember my mom tricking me and saying that this was a scary movie to get me to watch it and she knew me , that I wouldn't give it a chance if it didn't have a scare . But I kept watching it and just never stopped laughing to this day . It's very sad because I haven't found the D . V . D . yet ! : ( Brought in a new idea of Dracula in the modern day , or well 1979 at the time , what would Dracula think of New York City and could he keep up with the times ? " Hutsie Tutsie , whoop whoopdie doo , red hot mama ? " , lol ! You'll get that if you watch the movie . But Dracula is on a mission to find the love of his life , Cindy Sondheim . A super model who isn't responsible , she's lazy , and takes men for what their good for and loves ' em and leaves ' em . With Dracula's faithful slave , Reinfield , they find Miss Cindy . But getting her is not so easy when her therapist , Dr . Rosenberg , or a . k . a . Dr . Van Helsing , he changed it for professional reasons , he has something else to say about Dracula taking his Cindy away and well , just having his pride will do anything to defeat Dracula . " This is a perfect example of a man taking action in his life ! And I feel . . . pretty good ! " This movie is just incredibly hilarious and should be watched . This is the best Dracula parody of all time . It's guaranteed laughs and a good time with great actors and just a fun story . I think anyone could get a laugh out of this and seriously , people ! A 5 . 7 ? I think not ! Come on ! Live a little !
A beautiful classic and unforgettable performances , especially from Brando !	I have heard a lot about A Streetcar Named Desire , especially from that hilarious Simpsons parody " A Streetcar Named Marge " , just classic . So , overall I knew what would happen , this movie was just incredible . I just want to get into how remarkable Marlon Brando's performance , Stanley was so chilling and yet somehow you could see how Stella fell for him . I never knew really how a simple world like " Stella ! ! ! ! ! ! " could be so well remembered when it came to film , but when I saw how Brando gave that speech begging for Stella to come back to him , he was so incredible . You could see how crazy he was and yet so dedicated to keeping what was his . Vivian Leigh , in some way , she over acted a little , but she was supposed to act crazy , so I'm not sure , I think she ended up doing it just right . But she actually made me cry when she cited the line " I have always depended on the kindness of strangers " , it was just so heart wrenching . She and her sister were amazing and I enjoyed their performances . I would always highly recommend this film . I mean , it seems like the best time for movies are the classics , especially from the 50's . They have heart and it seemed like the directors and actors had a passion for what they were doing . Not just to make a blockbuster or anything like that . Please watch this movie , you'll know what I'm talking about .
Still remains one of the most visually harrowing movies of all time	I want you to go back , way back , before CGI effects , box office predictions , acid trip movies , black and white , even sound , we had silent films . We've of course remember them , but how many of us have really seen one ? I happen to love them though , my film appreciation class made me run out and get as many silent films as possible , one of the most memorable silent films of all time is Nosferatu . A film that still to this day remains one of the most harrowing movies of all time . Say what you will about how far special effects have come into today's movies , but the silent film really made this movie into the true horror story that has memorable images and still gives me nightmares . Thomas Hutter is an employee at a real estate firm in a city called Wisborg , living with Ellen , his wife . His employer , Knock , receives a mysterious letter . Knock decides to send him to visit Count Orlok in the Carpathian Mountains to finalize the sale of a house . Hutter leaves his wife with his good friend Harding , and Harding's sister Ruth , before embarking on his multiple-month journey . He goes on the trip and he is soon picked up by Count Orlok's coach , which is driven by a strange specter that hides its face , and moves at an unnatural speed . At his arrival at the castle , whose doors open by themselves , he is welcomed by Count Orlok . His grotesque facial features hidden at this stage by his hat , Orlok initially appears to be a mere eccentric gentleman . Hutter has dinner at the castle ; Orlok refuses to eat and silently reads a letter . A bell rings at midnight and a startled Hutter cuts his thumb . Count Orlok tries to suck the blood out of the wound , but stops at Hutter's horror , who then falls asleep in the parlor after a conversation with Orlok . Hutter wakes up to an empty castle with fresh wounds on his neck , he's oh so doomed at this point . The very first vampire movie of all time , when F . W . Murnau couldn't get the rights to Dracula , he created actually one of the most memorable horror movies of all time . Seriously , if you have never seen this movie , try to find it , and if you dare say that the image of Orlok waking up and rising out of his coffin doesn't scare the ever loving daylight out of you , I'm going to go all Clockwork Orange on you , tape you to a chair put toothpicks in your eye lids to keep them open and you're going to watch this in the dark . This movie is a true classic and will always remain one of the scariest movies I have ever seen .
That quote " And it keeps getting funnier every single time I see it " will be put to good use	Because that is what you'll say when you watch this movie again and again . What is there to say about Tim Burton ? He can't stop with the good movies ! This has to be up there in at least the top 20 of the best comedies of all time . It's twisted , but very very funny . I swear to you , if you watch this film , you will get one laugh . Probably more if you give it a chance . And of course , Beetlejuice is now one of the most famous charactors in movie history . Way to go , Tim !
Very charming , very lovely , this is the most beautiful film I have seen in years	After every single excellent review on this film , I had to see it . " Finding Neverland " is such a wonderful and moving film . The whole ending , I was just in tears . I don't think they were tears of sadness , but tears of joy . This movie just made me feel so good inside . I think " Finding Neverland " brings us all back into childhood for an hour and a half . What was so fun , imaginative , and wonderful of just having this innocence . As a child , we never had to really worry until we became grown up ; " Finding Neverland " is a perfect example of that . I would always recommend this movie to anyone . It's the perfect film to watch with your family and kids . It's charming and absolutely breath taking .
Be our guest	Beauty and the Beast is without a doubt one of Disney's finest classics . The first animated film to ever be nominated for best picture and after you see it , you could understand and agree with it's nomination . Beauty and the Beast is going to be one of those films that will always be remembered , I know that it's a movie that I will show my children one day . It has unbelievably terrific animation , a beautiful story , lovable characters , and is just over all a perfect movie . I really love this film so much , I don't think anyone couldn't fall in love with it . Bell is just a simple girl in her town in France , she reads books constantly and her father is an inventor . They are sort of the outcasts of their town due to their " oddness " . But Bell is being pursued by the town hunk , Gueston , simply because she's the one girl he cannot have . One day when her father's inventions are about to be displayed at the fair , he gets lost in the woods and stumbles across a castle and is held prisoner . Bell goes after him and comes to the castle ; it turns out that her father is being held by a beast who is cursed with this hideousness unless he finds a true love before a rose he has welts . Bell trades places with her father ; the house also has living objects , a candle holder , a clock , a tea pot , all who are also cursed until the curse is broken . They look at Bell as the perfect opportunity for the beast to find a true love , but he must learn to be a gentleman , but Bell brings out the best in him and it turns out that this might be a happy ending after all . This was actually the first movie that I ever cried in , the ending was just so beautiful and heart felt , you'll have to see what I mean . The songs are just so lovely and perfect for the scenes that they are performed for . Beauty and the Beast , the song , was just one of the most touching songs ever . This films is a major recommendation for me , it's one of my favorite Disney films of all time , it's a timeless classic that is just perfect and reached a new level of great animation .
5 hotties + awesome vampire book = # 1 Vampire movie of all time ! ! !	Interview with the Vampire is hands down probably the number one vampire movie . We got to see a story so unique and original , the eyes through a vampire and his world . Normally , we see Dracula getting chased around by Van Helsing , all we know is vampires are usually bad and must be destroyed , yatta , yatta , yatta . But this time , we not only experience how Louis became a vampire , but what his life became of it . Anne Rice would truly be proud of how much a great movie her most famous book turned out to be . We have some great and very attractive actors who star in this film like : Brad Pitt , Tom Cruise , Antonio Bandares , Christian Slater , and Stephen Rea , not to mention a very young and new Kirsten Dunst . The story starts off with Christian Slater interviewing Brad Pitt , who plays Louis , he makes the most interesting statement to Christian that he's a vampire . Obviously , Christian doesn't take this seriously , but Louis offers him one thing : his story . Louis was born and grew up during the time when America was just being discovered in the late 1700's , he just lost his wife and child in labor , a little different than the book , but anyways , but his misery brings him to wanting death , and Lestat , played by the brilliant Tom Cruise , brings him that with becoming a vampire . Of course Louis doesn't realize what he gets himself into , but Lestat does what he can to show Louis the perks of being a vampire , even if it means bringing in a child , Claudia , played by Dunst , and turning her into a vampire to keep Louis with him . But Claudia and Louis look at Lestat as a warden and won't let them go , so they attempt to kill him and flee the city of New Orleans to France . In Paris , they meet a group of thespian vampires , they kill people on stage as if they were in a play . " Vampires pretending to be humans pretending to be vampires " . Louis meets Armond , played by Bandares , and Santiago , played by Rea . Armond is obsessed with Louis and tells him that Claudia shouldn't be a vampire since she is so young and ends up destroying the thing that means most to Louis , I won't spoil it . Which leads Louis back to the interviewer where Christian is starting to question his doubts of Louis being a vampire . Interview with the Vampire is a terrific film that is just beautifully directed and the actors are just so brilliantly charismatic , it's just impossible in some ways for someone not to enjoy this movie . I know my friends who are not into horror films ended up loving this one because of it's interesting story . It's just a great film that I think everyone should get the chance to see .
Now let's not loose our heads . . . this was an awesome movie !	Tim Burton , as always you know my rant on the love I have for this director , when given a dark subject , he always does a great job with it . Everyone knows the story of the famous headless horseman of Sleepy Hollow , every Halloween , we are guaranteed to at least see the cartoon or hear the story . So one of the best known ghost stories of all time stars Johnny Depp as Ichabod Crane , the famous scientist who is a non-believer until he finally faces the scary figure . Johnny was definitely a great choice as Ichabod , he brought the perfect amount of strangeness , intelligence and then you have to love that he adds Ichabod being a bit of a coward , which to be honest was very human . Then Tim just had to add the nightmarish feature of having Christopher Walken as the ghost of the headless horseman , that wasn't a pretty image . In 1799 , New York City police constable Ichabod Crane is dispatched by his superiors to the Hudson Highlands hamlet of Sleepy Hollow , to investigate a series of brutal slayings in which the victims have been found beheaded . A frequent user of new , though so far unproven investigative techniques such as finger-printing and autopsies , Crane arrives in Sleepy Hollow armed with his bag of scientific tools only to be informed by the town's elders that the murderer is not of flesh and blood , rather a headless supernatural warrior from beyond the grave who rides at night on a massive black steed . Crane does not believe them and begins his own investigation , until he comes face to " face " with the Headless Horseman . Boarding a room at the home of the town's richest family , the Van Tassels , Crane develops an attraction to their daughter , Katrina , even as he's plagued by nightmares of his mother's horrific torture when he was a child . Delving further into the mystery with the aid of the orphaned Young Masbeth , whose father was a victim of the Horseman , Crane discovers within the Western Woods both the Horseman's entry point between this world and the beyond , the gnarled Tree of the Dead , and his grave . He finds the Horseman's skull is missing though the murders continue until Crane uncovers a murky plot revolving around revenge and land rights with the Horseman controlled by Katrina's stepmother , Lady Van Tassel , who sends the killer after her . Sleepy Hollow is sure to be a classic down the line , I loved that it's rated R , because honestly I know this is supposed to be a child's ghost story , but if it was made that way with Tim Burton as director , it would have taken away the good scares that Sleepy Hollow provides . This is a pretty bloody movie and does have some really good scares , so I'm warning you ahead of time . But there are terrific actors , great sets and this will be a fun movie to watch every Halloween . Tim Burton gives us another dark classic that teaches us how to get " aHEAD " in life ! Lol , you never saw that coming , did you ? Yeah , just watch the movie , it's a lot of fun .
" The Godfather " of all thrillers	I've seen way too many thrillers . You name it : " Identity " , " Seven " , " The Usual Suspects " , etc . , etc . , etc . I remember my friend being so obsessed with " Silence of the Lambs " , that it drove me crazy . And I hated the movie naturally and refused to see it . But everyone told me that I have to see this , so I let my guard down . And had an open mind , and I'm glad I did . My friend was right , this is a great movie . It is so well acted , I couldn't even describe . I loved " Silence of the Lambs " and would recommend it to anyone . It's creepy and exciting . Trust me , you'll love it .
The best of the Indiana Jones trilogy	I was a little concerned why this was lower then Raider's of the Lost Ark , I thought this Indiana Jones was a lot more fun . But you can't win ' em all right ? After all , how could you resist Sean Connery's " Junior ! " . It's so funny . And Harrison Ford does it once again with the exciting adventures . And it even has a little accurate history about the natzis . I loved this film . It's definatly better then Raider's or Temple of Doom .
Chronicles is a winner !	The Chronicles of Narnia : Prince Caspian , big blockbuster number three in the summer of 2008 , now I expected this to be an exciting movie already , but I have to tell you that the excitement got so much higher as I watched this movie . I couldn't believe just how awesome this movie was , I mean the first Chronicles is a fantastic movie , but this movie takes a few steps ahead . It's definitely more mature , it takes on a lot of battle scenes , like a Lord of the Rings type of battle with a ton of creatures who are fighting for their land back . We have amazing effects , with taking badgers , goats , and mice , and the mice , this is no Puss in Boots from Shrek 2 , this is the blood thirsty mice that kick butt ! The Chronicles of Narnia : Prince Caspian is seriously one of the best films I have seen this year . The movie begins where the first Chronicles left off , the kids are in England , pretty depressed and miss Narnia , it's been a year , but while in a train station , they are taken away back to Narnia where it's been 1300 years . The land is in bad shape , they have been called by Prince Caspian , the kids are these legends to the Narnians , but they need the kid's help . So everyone is in for a strong battle to get Narnia back into the beautiful land it once was . Lucy is hoping to re-connect with Aslan , but everyone does not believe as strong as she does . The Chronicles of Narnia : Prince Caspian is a movie that will not disappoint , I cannot believe how good this movie was , I was so excited watching all these amazing battle sequences . The plot is actually pretty easy to follow , for kids that are under 10 , I'm not so sure if this is a film for them , I know that The Chronicles of Narnia is a family film , but there is quite a bit of violence in the movie , like blood , cutting , decapitations . But for the effects , I would say this is safer than Lord of the Rings . Like I said before though , The Chronicles of Narnia : Prince Caspian is truly a winner , this is just a fantastic movie and is a must see .
Fun for any girl to watch !	I am in love with Marilyn Monroe , she was the defining beauty of all Hollywood movie stars before there was such a thing as the Hollywood Heart throb . I had heard quite a bit of Gentlemen Prefer Blondes and this was the defining role that really made Marilyn the icon she is still to this day . So , I had to rent this movie without delay . I found myself not only admiring a movie star , but falling in love with another classic movie . Gentlemen Prefer Blondes is like the very first ditzy blonde movie that makes you laugh from beginning to end . I know this is kind of a horrible thing to say , but I admired Dorthy and Lorelei's characters . Yes , they were gold diggers , but I loved how they knew they could get anything they want with just a wink of their eyelashes . Their confidence and glamour was so sexy and it's everything I wanted to be when I was a little girl . Not the gold digger part : P . " Diamonds are a girl's best friend " is one of the most memorable songs I will always once in a while get stuck in my head . Marilyn made the song so memorable and fabulous . I will always recommend Gentlemen Prefer Blondes for a girl's night in ! This is a great romantic comedy that anyone could enjoy !
Actually it got better for me	Back in 1997 , do I remember that year : Clinton bans cloning research , the unfortunate death of Princess Diana , the Marlins won the world series and a woman gave birth to septuplets . This was also the big year in the classic release of Titanic , one of the biggest films of all time : a tale about a ship of dreams , about a boy and a girl who fall in love but are torn apart by their social class and at the height of their emotional commitment the ship meets with disaster . I don't think anybody could have expected Titanic to be as HUGE as it was , the movie was bigger than life and had millions of fans , 85 % of them being teenage girls , I was 12 years old at the time , and of course saw the movie multiple times . It was the film that made me believe that the love that Jack and Rose shared was so real and beautiful . At the time I felt that Titanic could do no wrong , of course I grew up and didn't watch the film since I was 14 , a couple years ago I saw the film on DVD for 5 . 99 and figured that it was a good price and to see what I thought about the movie now . Was it worth the hype ? Was it really the best movie of all time ? Was that Leonardo's real nose ? OK , I know that's silly to say , but I did re-watch the film . Being completely honest here , this film is a great movie , best movie of all time , no , just depends on your idea of a good movie , but Titanic delivered in romance , humor , disaster , emotions and never let us go on this maiden voyage . The film starts with Brock Lovett and his team exploring the wreck of the RMS Titanic , searching for a necklace set with a valuable blue diamond called the Heart of the Ocean . Unsuccessful , they instead discover a drawing of a young woman reclining nude , wearing the Heart of the Ocean , dated the day the Titanic sank . 101-year-old Rose Dawson Calvert learns of the drawing , and contacts Lovett to inform him she is the woman in the drawing . She and her granddaughter Elizabeth " Lizzy " Calvert visit Lovett and his skeptical team on his salvage ship . When asked if she knew the whereabouts of the necklace , Rose Calvert recalls her memories aboard the Titanic , revealing for the first time that she was Rose DeWitt Bukater . In 1912 , the upper-class 17-year-old Rose boards the ship with her fiancé , Cal Hockley and her mother , Ruth DeWitt Bukater , both of whom stress the importance of Rose's engagement to Cal since the marriage will mean the eradication of the Dewitt-Bukater debts : while they have the outward appearance of the upper-class , Rose and her mother are financially broke . Distraught and frustrated by her engagement to the controlling Cal and the pressure her mother is putting on her to go through with the marriage , Rose attempts suicide by jumping from the stern . Before she leaps , a drifter and artist named Jack Dawson intervenes . Jack and Rose strike up a tentative friendship as she thanks him for saving her life , and he shares stories of his adventures traveling and sketching ; their bond deepens when they leave a stuffy first-class formal dinner of the rapport-building wealthy for a much livelier gathering of Irish dance , music and beer in third-class . But after Cal's servant informs him of Rose's whereabouts ' , Rose is forbidden from seeing Jack again . However , after witnessing a woman encouraging her seven-year-old daughter to behave like a " proper lady " at tea , Rose defies him and her mother , asking Jack to sketch her nude and wearing only the Heart of the Ocean , an engagement present from Cal . After a beautiful moment together in the very first backseat fun time , they go to the deck of the ship . They then witness the ship's fatal collision with an iceberg . After overhearing the ship's lookouts discussing how serious the collision is , Rose tells Jack they should warn her mother and Cal . Meanwhile , Cal discovers Rose's nude drawing and her taunting note in his safe , so he frames Jack for stealing the Heart of the Ocean by having Lovejoy plant it in Jack's pocket . Upon learning Cal intends to leave Jack to die below deck , Rose runs away from him and her mother to rescue him . Jack and Rose return to the top deck . Cal and Jack , though enemies , both want Rose safe , so they persuade her to board a lifeboat . But after realizing that she cannot leave Jack , Rose jumps back on the ship and reunites with Jack in the ship's first class staircase . Jack and Rose return to the top deck , the lifeboats have gone , and the ship finally goes down into the freezing Atlantic taking Jack and Rose down . So does Titanic live up to it's hype ? I still say that this is a great movie to watch , I think that there were and still are quite a few haters that for some reason just want to trash the movie because it had won a ton of awards and everyone was in love with the movie . But it has great acting , amazing effects , a well-written story and still looks flawless . Love it or hate it , you have to admit this movie didn't get a lot of hype just because of Leo's baby face or Kate's amazing ability to cry on sight , this film is something special . It will always hold a special place in my heart , it has too seeing that I saw this film 8 times in the theater when it was released . But all that aside , I do recommend this movie , it's a great one and sure to go down in the classics one day .
They still got it	The brilliant creators of " Airplane " bring us back to the non-stop slap stick comedy of " Scary Movie 3 " . In my opinion , this is my favorite Scary Movie out of the three so far , this was just too much for words to say how funny it was . I never had such a good time in the theater , I even saw it 3 times because I just couldn't get enough laughs . The movies are now : Signs , 8 Mile , The Others , The Ring , and The Matrix movies . We have two old friends , Anna Farris back as Cindy and Regina Hall back as Brenda . We have a new and more fun cast with Leislie Neilson , Charlie Sheen , Denese Richards , Simon Rex , and the two that stole the movie Anthony Anderson and Kevin Hart . Together they brought together a movie that would not stop with the great comedy . Despite it being a very short movie , it makes you just want to watch it again and again . I'm not sure which was my favorite parody , I think it was either the rap battle where Simon plays George as Eminem in 8 Mile and they had that great cameo of Simon from American Idol . Of course , I enjoyed the Michael Jackson joke , I just was dying of that line " How do you like it , huh ? " representing Michael dangling his baby in Berlin earlier this year and now Charlie Sheen gets the chance to give Michael his own medicine . Every scene is a great one , trust me , this is by far the best Scary Movie . You'll have a great time .
Life must be great under the sea !	The Little Mermaid is one of the best Disney films of the 80's ! It's such a wonderful film and is such a tear jerker , lol . The songs , the story , the animation , the voices , were just so wonderful and perfect . This is the film that I'm sure will go on for generations to come , I just showed it to my cousin recently , he's 6 , and he just loves it as well . I remember watching this movie when I was a little girl and I just wanted a friend like Sebastian , he was so much fun , even though he's somewhat of a buzz kill , he can really get the party going . Just the whole story is a blast to watch and is so beautiful . Ariel is one of the many princesses of King Triton's mighty kingdom under the sea , but she has a different dream . She goes up constantly to the shore to collect human items and wonders what it would be like to be a human instead of a mermaid . One day when she gets into a nasty fight with her father , Ursella , an evil octopus woman who wants to take over King Triton's kingdom , grants Ariel's wish , but she can only stay human if she can get her crush , Eric , to say her name , sounds easy , right ? Well , Ursella takes her voice away , but her intentions are for Ariel to fail and make sure that she takes over the kingdom . The Little Mermaid is such a fun Disney film and is a great treasure of our time . I just love the song " Under the sea " , it's so much fun to sing and dance too , I admit it , I'm a dork , I still sing and dance to it when I see it . I highly recommend this movie for anyone , it's a true Disney classic that is so much fun , I guarantee you that you might shed a tear when Ariel says " Daddy " , you'll see what I mean when you watch it .
The sexiest , hottest , most awesome vampire movie ! ! !	This is what I am talking about when you want vampire action ! This is the movie to top the action vampire movies . You see Blade , the forsaken , Vampires , or Dracula 2000 , and these movies copy off of the lost boys . Keifer ! Good God ! You are soooo fine ! ! ! These were the hotties of the eighties ! ! ! This is the most awesome movie ! The plot : Michael and Sam are two brothers who are going to Santa Carla , the murder capital of the world , with their just divorced mother Lucy . They go to a fair late the night of their big move . Michael spots a hot girl , Star . He chases after her , but is stoped by four " normal " guys . He leaves her alone . In the mean time Lucy has to find a job . She goes to a video store and gets a job . And meets a charming fellow , Max . And starts to fall for him . And Sam scampers off to a comic book store meeting two guys . Edger and Allen Frog . Who are very open and say that the town is invaded by vampires . And they are going to fight for their city . Of course Sam is not convinced . But they give him a comic saying how to defeat vampires . The next night Michael goes back and Star finds him . She introduces herself . He asks her out , but she is stopped by the four guys . David , Paul , Marko , and Dwayne . David is the leader , and tells Star to get on his motorcycle and they're going home . But they ask Michael to come with them . He goes with them . And he learns that they aren't so normal . David offer Michael a drink , Star tells him it's blood . Michael thinks that she is kidding . And he drinks it . And becomes a vampire . Max and Lucy are getting closer . Max wants her FOREVER . hint , hint . And Michael tells Sam his secret of becoming a vampire . Sam decides to help Michael out with his friends Edger and Allen . They race for time before Michael or Lucy turn to the dark side forever . If you are a vampire fan , WATCH THIS MOVIE ! It's just too hot to miss !
" Consider yourself our mate "	This is one of the best musicals of all time . And the movie just adds more magic to it . Oliver Twist , Jack Dodger , Fagan , Nancy , and the evil Bill Sykes , it's an exciting adventure . This musical is of course based on " Oliver Twist " by Charles Dickens . So , if you loved the book , you'll love this movie . Oliver Twist is an orphan boy just looking for a loving family . When he gets into trouble at his orphanage , he is sold to another family . When they aren't the " ideal family " Oliver was looking for , he runs away to London to find his fortune . He gets to London , and meets " The Artful " Dodger . Another boy who is an orphan , but independent . He invites Oliver to stay with him and his other boys at a cabin where a man takes care of them . Oliver accepts . He meets the leader of this pack who " picks a pocket or two " . Fagan . A cowardly man who takes the things the boys steal from other people . And refuses to work . He meets Nancy the next day . A lovely lady who enjoys life . And is charmed by Oliver's lookout . She is married to a man , Bill Sykes , who was raised by Fagan . He steals and kills for him . When Oliver gets into trouble with pick pocketing , he goes to court . But when the man who is the accuser realizes that Oliver was innocent , he takes him into his home . The gang back at Fagan thinks Oliver will squeal on them . I shouldn't go on and give the ending . Just watch this film . If you love musicals , you'll fall for this one .
Unbelievable , this was such an awesome movie !	School of Rock , well , it rocked ! I had to say that I had my doubts , I mean , I love Jack Black , but this seemed like most of his movies where he just plays the typical junkie and probably has either the same or lame humor . Don't get me wrong , I love Jack , just I was starting to get worried about him being type cast . But School of Rock proved not only to be great , but an incredibly touching movie with some great humor . Jack plays Dewey Finn , a guitar player who has just got kicked out of his band . He also owes his roommate , a substitute teacher , a lot of money for the rent . So , when Dewey answers the phone that was meant for his roommate and takes a job , posing as his roommate , as the new substitute teacher at a high class prep school . Since he doesn't really care and just wants the money , he just sits back and relaxes . He wants to get back at his band still by competing in Battle of Bands , so he takes these kids and turns them into his rock band , better , into the School of Rock . This has endless humor and just over all a terrific story that is so touching and I think anyone can appreciate . Even though the ending is just a smidge unrealistic , it's what everyone wanted , and I think we can say that it rocked !
An intense thriller	God , I love Kevin Spacey . He is an amazing actor . His performance was flawless in this film . And Samuel L . Jackson is just as perfect . He gets into his characters with such passion . I love it . " The Negotiator " is a remarkable film . I was really impressed . I was a little curious when I went to " Blockbuster " I saw the film on display . I love Kevin Spacey , but ever since the incident of " House of the Dead " shudder , I check IMDb first . I saw that it had a rating of 7 . 2 . I figured that I'd give it a shot . I'm glad I did . This is a great movie . You should watch it if you are a Kevin fan . Or a Samuel fan . Especially if you loved movies like " Die Hard " , " Terminator " , or " Lethal Weapon " . I would highly recommend it .
One of the best war movies ever made	I'm starting to think that everything that Speilberg touches turns to gold . This is probably considered one of the greatest movies of all time and it is directed by Speilberg . The movie is incredable . The beginning was horrifying . I couldn't believe how accurate it was and painful it was to watch . When I studied WW2 in high school , I thought no one could ever re-create the Beach of Normady . But Speilberg did . I felt like I was there with the soldiers . I felt their fear , pride , and love for their country . I couldn't believe how much dedication our armies put into fighting and winning the war . And whenever I go to visit Washington D . C . , I have more American pride then ever . I am more than proud to give this movie a
It's sick , it's twisted , and fd up . . . I LOVE IT !	I'm not sure why , but I really loved this film . There is no reason , I just loved it . My sister told me that if I liked " Kill Bill " than I should enjoy " Pulp Fiction " . I noticed that it was also # 16 on the top 250 . How could I say no to that ? I am not a huge Quentin Tarentino fan , to let everyone know . I know there is a huge die hard fans who can't stand if he is bad rapped . I am not one of those people . But ! I do think the man has talent that people reconize almost immidatley . All of his films are on the top 250 if you haven't noticed . The film isn't for everyone . You have to be in a certain mood to watch it . It is pretty sick , so , it's not for everyone . But I would recommend if you love action flicks .
Ah , that's much better !	The Amityville haunted house , the most popular house in America . So many stories and what goes by your beliefs is what makes it alive . After seeing the trailer for the remake of " The Amityville Horror " , I knew I had to see this movie . But I never had an interest in seeing the original , but I figured if I'm going to see a remake , I might as well see the original . I didn't like the original that much , it was kind of boring and dull to me . So , I was scarred to actually go see the remake , alas , I waited for the rental . I wish I saw this in the theater ! This was an awesome movie ! I was actually scarred at some scenes . I normally don't go for remakes , but seriously , if you want some Amityville action , watch the remake . It's much better , it goes more into the story , and it's just all around creepy . It has a sense of the Shining and the Poltergeist films . Trust me , you won't be disappointed .
What can I say ? That's show business !	The other day when I was renting movies I passed this one called Quiz Show , never heard of it , wasn't too sure if it would be good or not , so I figured I would just wait and check it out on IMDb . When I saw the rating I was very impressed , not to mention how this was nominated for best picture of ' 94 , considering it was up against : Forrest Gump , Pulp Fiction , and Shawshank Redemption , it didn't really stand a chance . But I rented this movie and I'm convinced that 1994 had to be one of the best years for films . Quiz Show is an incredibly impressive film by Robert Redford , which I didn't even realize that this guy could direct ! The story is just a perfect one for any type of a debate conversation on what is right and what is wrong . 21 is a popular TV quiz show in the 50's where they ask very hard questions and the guests win lots of money , Herb Stempel has been the reigning champion for weeks . But he's not exactly what you would call the TV hunk , he's got the " radio face " . Charles Van Doren is a huge fan of quiz shows , so he auditions , and when the executives see him , they go crazy over him , he's handsome , he's smart , he's charismatic , and his family is famous . They tell Herb to " dive down " and get a wrong answer so that Charles can take over as the champion . Everything seems to go smoothly , that is until Harvard grad government agent Dick Goodwin is convinced that there's something wrong . He is determined to prove that the show is rigged and that 21 is ripping of America's intellects . Quiz Show is a great film , the acting , the picture , the editing , everything about this film is pretty much flawless . I couldn't believe that this film is not anywhere near the top 250 , I don't see any problems with the film . But I know every film has a hater or two . But for me the film , acting wise , the film went to Ralph Fiennes , he did an incredible performance and was so touching during his statement to the jury . I just would highly recommend this film to anyone , this is a great film and Robert Redford did a terrific job .
