The sequel to the original Alligator is actually not as bad I thought it was going to be . . . . . IT'S MUCH WORSE ! ! !	The film begins with the local villain Vincent ' Vinnie ' Brown ( Steve Railsback ) personally overseeing the illegal dumping of toxic waste into the city sewers that is produced by his company ' Future Chemicals ' . The same night two men named Pedro ( Ramon Estevez ) and Victor ( Thomas Rosales Jr . ) are fishing in a river , next to a sewer outlet . Something watches them from afar , hidden among the reeds . They are attacked and pulled underwater , a severed leg slowly sinks to the bottom . The next morning the two men are reported missing , Detective David Hodges ( Joseph Bologna ) takes a special interest as he personally knows the family . Also that morning the severed leg is found where Pedro and Victor were last seen . Hodges thinks the two incidents may be connected . The local pathologist ( Buckley Norris ) suggests that the mans leg was severed by a large animal , and that traces of saliva were found on the bite marks on the leg . He says he has sent it over to the university so Christine Hodges ( Dee Wallace-Stone ) , who just happens to be Hodges wife , by a complete coincidence of course you understand . While discussing the case over dinner that night Mr . and Mrs . Hodges jump to various implausible conclusions and decide that a giant alligator is running around the sewers . Chief Clarence Speed ( Brock Peters ) doesn't believe him , but says he can continue investigating the case and let him know what he comes up with . Inconviently , Brown is planning a carnival to promote his crooked beach-side property dealings that are currently in the balance . Hodges tries to talk with Brown and get him to cancel the carnival , Brown refuses and leans on the city's mayor , Anderson ( Bill Daily ) to have Hodges arrested and taken off the case . The alligator kills an old wino called Oatis , and his friend Henry ( Carmen Filpi ) barely manages to escape . But Henry does escape and reports it to the authorities , Hodges now has proof . Brown then calls in Hawk Hawkins ( Richard Lynch ) and his posse of men to track down the alligator and kill it . Meanwhile Hodges isn't going to give up that easily and along with a rookie cop named Rich Harmon ( Woody brown ) , the mayor's rather attractive daughter Sheri Anderson ( Holly Gagnier ) and just so it's a family affair his wife Christine , sets about killing the mutated alligator themselves , and try to prevent a bloodbath at the carnival which just happens to be right next to a large lake . Directed by Jon Hess I absolutely hated this film . I challenge anyone to name anything good about this film . Hess fails to inject any humour , pace , momentum or excitement into the film . He directs it like a low-budget T . V . film , everything about this film says the filmmakers just didn't care about the finished product . The ending is awful , the alligator just walks through the carnival and people run away , and that's it until Hodges arrives . The script by Curt Allen is boring , slow , predictable and is full of padding that really didn't need to be there . It does however have a couple of mildly amusing lines of dialogue in it , like when the slimy Brown is talking to the mayor's pretty young daughter and says " your a child stick with me and I'll make you a woman " , he knows how to charm the ladies ! Henry lovingly reflects on his mates death by the alligator and says " Oatis was my friend , he didn't deserve to be a tooth pick ! " . Those are two of the better written scenes as well . I thought Micheal Douglas lookalike Bologna made for a reasonably likable hero , even if he was to old to be running around with a rocket launcher ! Railsback reaches a career low here and is criminally underused throughout . The special effects are awful , the alligator itself isn't in the film that much and when you see how bad and unconvincing the puppet effects are you'll understand why , there's no blood , gore , violence , nudity or bad language either . Can someone tell me what the point of this film existing is ? Words can barely describe how much I hate this film , Jon Hess and Curt Allen if your reading this you owe me 90 minutes of my life back ! Avoid at all costs , and if you do decide to watch it just don't say you weren't warned !
By the time a character in The Mangler 2 says " useless piece of American garbage " you'll know exactly how he feels , absolutely awful film .	The Mangler 2 starts with a rebellious teenager named Jo Newton ( Chelse Swain ) being sent to a private school by her displeased billionaire Father ( Ken Camroux ) after breaking into one of his hi-tech computer lab thingy's & hacking the main computer , or something like that . Headmaster Bradeen ( Lance Henriksen ) holds a school assembly ( consisting of about 50 students ) to inform everyone that while they have been away on their spring break the school has been fitted out with the latest computer system called M2K from ' Newton Industries ' that will safeguard the students needs & safety . As it happens everyone is going away on a geography trip , everyone that is except the five head prefects , Jo , Dan Channa ( Will Sanderson ) , Corey Banks ( Miles Meadows ) , Will Walsh ( Dexter Bell ) & Emily Stone ( Daniella Evangelista ) who have to stay behind because of a practical joke played on the schools website which ' degrades ' the school & it's pupils . Bradeen specifically accuses Jo so as revenge she downloads a virus called the ' Mangler ' & infects the schools brand new computer systems with it . Before long Bob the maintenance man ( Jeff Doucette ) has been murdered by the schools computer as it decides to kill everyone currently within it's walls . . . Written & directed by Micheal Hamilton-Wright The Mangler 2 has no connection to the previous Tobe Hooper directed The Mangler ( 1995 ) & is truly one of the worse films you will ever have the opportunity to witness . It's absolutely abysmal on every conceivable level you care to think of . The script is so slow & boring it could probably put most people into a coma , Bob the maintenance man isn't killed until the 36 minute mark so that means there is 36 painful , dull , uneventful & frankly god awful minutes before anything that even approaches horror takes place . Up to this point it's just totally unnecessary chit chat & character development that instead of making the viewer care about these people does exactly the opposite , I hated every single annoying , unfunny spoilt brat in The Mangler 2 & it's been a while since I've hated every character in a film . I mean take Jo for instance , besides being a sort of anti-hero she is always in a mood but what has she got to be in a mood about exactly ? Her Father's a billionaire , life can't be that bad for her surely ! So you just sit there hoping they will be killed off in very painful ways , well you can forget about that as almost all of the murders , of which there aren't many anyway , are off-screen , incredibly dull & bland . There is no gore in The Mangler 2 just a burned guy & a few splashes of blood , really that's it , in fact there isn't an effect in The Mangler 2 that you couldn't create at home with a bit of fake blood . From a technical point of view it ain't bad but the direction sucks , director Hamilton-Wright fails miserably to create any tension , atmosphere , scares or anything that resembles entertainment . How can a computer control things which aren't electrical like a washing machine lid or a wheelchair ? How can it makes wires come alive & wrap themselves around people ? How was this film ever allowed to get past the script stage ( if there was a script ) ? Why are the characters so dumb ? Why don't they just stand out in the open where there are no electrical appliances ? Why do they split up & constantly argue ? Why don't they just walk out of the door instead of having to run across the roof ? Why has no one got a mobile phone ? Doesn't everyone have mobile phones these days ? The unbelievably mushy ending when the annoying character who started it all in the first place finds a new found appreciation for her Father & they both live happily ever after just compounds the fact that I wanted to slit my wrists after suffering 90 odd minutes of this crap , Micheal Hamilton-Wright bow your head in shame ! A quick word about the acting , first everyone's terrible & really unlikable . Second , oh dear what on Earth was Lance Henriksen thinking ? ! This piece of straight-to-video , or maybe it was made-for-video ? , turgid rubbish really blots his copybook as far as I'm concerned . A special mention goes to the highly irritating & annoying techno music that director Hamilton-Wright insists on abusing our ears with . According to the IMDb The Mangler 2 had an estimated budget of $4 , 000 , 000 , all I can say is that where did the money go because it's a cheap looking film with few effects & actor's . Currently almost 70 % of the votes on the IMDb give it 1 star which it fully deserves & I honestly can't see what anyone would get out of The Mangler 2 in terms of entertainment . Apparently there is a yet another sequel called The Mangler Reborn ( 2005 ) at which I shudder at the mere thought . There really is nothing that I can compliment The Mangler 2 on , it is one of the very worst films it's been my misfortune to endure & generally speaking it is just an astonishingly bad film that I hope you never have to sit through & if you already have then I feel your pain . . .
Awful low budget horror crap .	Cadaverella starts as Cash ( Ryan Seymour ) is digging a grave for Cinder ( Megan Goddard ) who he has just murdered on behalf of her stepmother Donna ( Jennifer Friend ) , what follows is the story of how Cinder ended up dead & more importantly what she is going to do about it . . . Editd , co-written & directed by Timothy Friend I'll try to keep this comment sort as I don't even want to think about Cadaverella anymore let alone waste time typing this review any longer than is necessary . The script by Timothy & Jennifer Friend is apparently supposed to be based on the fairy tale Cinderella , well to be frank I didn't see it but as an adult my memories of Cinderella are vague . Weren't there meant to be three ugly sisters ? Didn't a pumpkin turn into a coach or something ? Anyway none of what happens has any connection to Cinderella & if it does it's is purely accidental . At only just over 70 minutes long Cadaverella still bored me stiff & it took me two attempts to get through to the end , the character's are rubbish , the dialogue sucks , it has no pace , it's dull & it take an hour before Cinder gets killed so the films big selling point is condensed into barely 10 minutes at the end & I can pretty much promise you now the hour that leads up to it is a snooze-fest of the highest order where virtually nothing of interest happens . Working on a low budget director Friend does nothing special here , it looks every bit the cheaply shot piece of crap that it is . There is one part of this film which puzzle me , at the start Cinder is a young girl when her stepmother & her two twins move in , jump forward so Cinder is now a young lady but the two twins remain exactly the same age ? Can someone explain that ? No , I didn't think so . There area couple of gore scenes at the end , someone head is crushed , someones jaw is ripped of , someone gets a fist through there head & that's about that . Technically the film is basic & I'm being kind , there's no visual style or flair & this is pretty dull stuff to sit through . The acting wasn't exactly great but then again you probably expected that . Cadaverella is total crap from start to finish & I hated every moment of it , I don't think any filmmaker deliberately goes out to make a bad film but when I have to pay good money & spend time watching it it's difficult for me to cut worthless glorified home made films like this any slack .
" I don't think eating human body parts contributes to a healthy mental state . " One of the worst films I've ever seen .	Strange Things Happen at Sundown starts with four mafia type guys being ripped off to the tune of 100 grand by Vampire Marcel ( J . Scott Green ) & his Vampire girlfriend Amy ( Jocasta Bryan ) who plan to drive to Canada & live there , simple eh ? Well not really because the mafia type boss guy Jimmy ' Fangs ' ( Joseph DeVito ) wants his money back & he also happens to be a Vampire , he hires someone known as ' The Reaper ' ( Steve Gonzalez ) to track them down & get the money back . Some annoyed Vampire bird dressed in PVC is also after one of her kind & kills to gain the information she needs , erm well that's about it really . Edited , photographed , written , co-produced & directed by Marc Fratto who also has a co-music credit I will start by simply saying that I hate Strange Things Happen at Sundown , I hate every micron of it's being . I hate the fact I spent over two hours watching this , I hate every single aspect of this ' film ' , I mean it's not been a good week for films for me as I've recently watched Goulies IV ( 1993 ) & Island of the Dead ( 2000 ) which I thought were pretty damn bad films but not even they could prepare me for the absolute stinker that is Strange Things Happen at Sundown . The script seems to think that by pummelling it's audience with constant swear words is a good thing , well I don't & it became extremely annoying & irritating to have a expletive in EVERY conversation , everyone has to swear as much as possible for no reason whatsoever . I'm not against swearing & you can't accurately portray certain real-life situations without it but please do we really need a constant stream of of pointless bad language ? Then there's the excruciatingly slow story , it's some sort of Vampire version of the Soprano's on a budget that wouldn't buy a round at my local pub . Did I mention that I hated this film ? The thing also goes on for what seemed like forever & at over two hours I was really bored & my finger was itching to press the ' Fastforward ' on my remote control . By the way I hate this film . The character's are awful , what's with the Reaper guy & his moronic wife ? How can Vampires kill people in broad daylight in the middle of a city & it goes unnoticed ? I did say I hated this film didn't I ? There's also some embarrassingly bad attempts at comedy here as well . I don't know what else to say , I don't really want to think about this crap anymore except to say that I hated every single worthless aspect of it . Director Fratto was obviously working with a low budget , the thing looks like it was shot on a camcorder because it was & the locations , the costumes & special effects are poor . There are apparently two versions of this abomination one being uncut , I think this is the version I saw & I wasn't impressed with the gore , there's a ripped out heart , there's some neck biting , there's lots of really fake looking blood splashed around & at the end there's a house full of Vampires doing nasty things like removing intestines & cooking body parts on a barbecue in the front garden , I mean so what if someone walks past & notices right ? There's also plenty of cheap & unappealing nudity . Technically this film sucks more than the Vampires in it , it looks cheap & feels like real bottom-of-the-barrel stuff . The acting , in my humble opinion , was absolutely terrible from everyone involved particularly their constant pointless mind-numbingly bad irrelevant & off-topic conversations . Strange Things Happen at Sundown seems to have some positive reviews here on the IMDb & that's fine , if some likes this film than I have no problem with that but for the life of me I can't see any aspect of this film which someone could gain some entertainment value from . Truly one of the worst films I've ever seen & believe me I've seen some bad films , this is right down there with the worst of them . One to avoid .
" Don't make me out a monster . . . I didn't eat the Captain " Terrible dialogue , terrible film .	Anaconda begins with some red scrolling text that reads ' tales of monstrous , man eating Anacondas have been recounted for centuries by tribes-people of the Amazon Basin , some of whom are said to worship these giant snakes . Anacondas are among the most ferocious - and enormous - creatures on Earth , growing , in certain cases , as long as 40 feet . Unique among snakes , they are not satisfied after eating a victim . They will regurgitate their prey in order to kill and eat again . ' Documentary filmmaker Terri Flores ( Jennifer Lopez ) & her boyfriend Professor Steven Cale ( Eric Stoltz ) decide to make a documentary on an Amazonian tribe called the Shiroshama also known as the ' people of the mist ' . Along with a cameraman named Danny Rich ( Ice Cube ) , a sound-man Gary Dixon ( Owen Wilson ) & his girlfriend Denise Kalberg ( Kari Wuhrer ) who's a production assistant & an English host Warren Westridge ( Jonathan Hyde ) to present the documentary they set off in a boat along the Amazon river to reach the tribe . On their travels they come across a sinking boat & a stranded man named Paul Sarone ( Jon Voight ) who claims to be an ex-Catholic priest but is now a snake hunter ( don't ask me how someone would make that sort of career decision ! ) . Things start to go wrong for the expedition when Cale is injured by a wasp ( again , don't ask ) & ends up critically ill . Sarone says he knows the area & can show them a shortcut so they can get Cale back to civilisation quicker & proper hospital treatment . On the way more bad luck follows as they stop to check a run down houseboat possibly for fuel when Mateo ( Vincent Castellanos ) their Captain , mysteriously disappears . Eventually Sarone reveals his plans & forces everyone on board to help him capture his ultimate prize , a rare 40 + foot long Anaconda that he feels will be worth millions of Dollars . Tension on board heighten , Sarone lures the Anaconda into the open with some bait but only succeeds in getting Gary killed & eaten . As the crew continue to be reduced in number the survivors begin to question who is hunting who exactly . . . ? Directed by Luis Llosa I throughly disliked Anaconda , where did the $45 , 000 , 000 go exactly ? ! Certainly not on the script by Hans Bauer , Jim Cash & Jack Epps Jr . which is atrocious , it's about as clichéd as you can imagine , it's filled with unlikeable stereotypical characters , it has ridiculous plot devices & coincidences to keep the already thin material going , it's unoriginal & predictable as well as taking itself far too seriously . The whole set up is poor , wouldn't Cale notice a huge poisonous wasp in his scuba mask ? I think I would . Why does Sarone want to capture this Anaconda ? He is never given sufficient motivation in my opinion especially since he murders people without a second thought to achieve this goal . If Anacondas hunt by heat , which is clearly mentioned during the film , why does the Anaconda go for a dead monkey on a line behind the boat ? An hours old dead monkey isn't going to give off any heat while being dragged through the Amazon river , is it ? I hated the ending as well . I could probably go on all day . . . The dialogue is terrible & just doesn't work for me , having said that the performances definitely don't help which are all uniformly awful . Even though she is given very little to do Lopez still manages to mess up & is simply awful . Voight puts in an seriously over-the-top performance , that pony tail , that awful accent & what's that facial expression all about Jon ? Ice Cube is about as good an actor as someone named Ice Cube could be , the guys as wooden as the Amozonian rain-forest itself . The only decent actor Eric Stoltz is totally sidelined in bed with an injury for most of the film & is ignored . The character of Westridge is ridiculous too as he constantly plays golf on the boat , he must have an infinite supply of golf balls somewhere . Even if it is another example of the poorly written dialogue I did like his line " the last time I was in water like this I was up all night picking leeches off my scrotum " though . The special effects on the Anaconda itself are mixed indeed . Some of the CGI shots look awful , as do some of the animatronic ones . While others look alright , as I said their a mixed bag . Forget about any gore as there isn't any apart from a quick throat operation involving a knife & empty pen . Generally speaking most of the Brazillian locations look nice & it has decent production values throughout even if there are various mistakes like the famous waterfall goof which is embarrassing to watch as is the changing pick-axe / axe sequence at the end where Danny kills the Anaconda . There is a really cool shot where the Anaconda opens it's mouth in preparation to swallow someone & the camera is placed in the back of it's throat looking out of it's mouth as it stretches open & few shots of the thrashing , burning still alive Anaconda at the end looks quite good as well , but that just isn't enough to save Anaconda from being a blatant & terrible Jaws ( 1975 ) rip-off with a large snake instead of a large shark . Anaconda sucks on all fronts , simple as that . There isn't anything I can recommend about Anaconda & I will let the ever awful Jennifer Lopez's ( Anaconda was one of her first starring roles ) character Terri have the final word " this film was supposed to be my big break . . . but it's turned out to be a big disaster " - never a truer word spoken !
" Revenge is a two way street . " Steven Seagal's worst film to date , end of discussion .	Attack Force is set somewhere in or near France where two secret US government military agents Commander Marsahll Lawson ( Steven Seagal who also co-wrote & produced this monstrosity ) & Lieutenant Dwayne Dixon ( David Kennedy ) are stationed , one night three of their men go out to a strip club & pick a prostitute up who turns out to be a raving psycho on a new drug called CTX which makes any user inexplicably gain super-human strength who brutally kills all three of them . Neither Lawson or Dixon are happy & set out to get to the bottom of the gruesome murders , the trail leads to a Russian bird ( Ileana Lazariuc ) & an American guy who plan on releasing CTX into the local water supply to turn the entire city into addicts for reasons I am not sure about . With the dual task of revenge & saving the local population Lawson has his work cutout , he leads a team of US soldiers into the enemies base in order to stop their evil plans once & for all . . . This Romanian , British & American co-production apparently had the working title Harvester & was directed by Michael Keusch & for me is the single worst film Steven Seagal has made to date that I have seen & believe me when I say he has made some seriously rubbish films , I should know better than to even bother with Seagal's straight-to-video / DVD output but I always seem boneheaded enough to spend my time watching them in the hope that one might just be alright but generally speaking I am disappointed more often than not . Right , lets start with the positives of Attack Force . Well , there's a really hot blonde woman in it named Lisa Lovbrand ( who co-writer Seagal cheekily writes his & her character's a kissing scene ) who is a joy to look at & there's one minor surprise towards the end as one character has a very unexpected fate which goes against cliché which was nice but apart from those two minor positive aspects Attack Force is a really , really awful film . The script is almost incomprehensible , Attack Force is one of the most poorly scripted & downright confusing films you are ever likely to see . There's lots of scenes of men in suits trying to act sinister to try & make this large conspiracy seem threatening & interesting but the film never really introduces anyone properly & I don't mind admitting there were parts of the film where I didn't have a clue who anyone was or what relevance to the overall plot certain scenes had . The dialogue is terrible , the plot makes no sense & has some of the worst narrative ever & there's not even that much action in it either to compensate . The whole plot about the CTX drug being released into the water is never resolved & there's no explanation or reason as to why this drug makes people super strong & able to to throw people through concrete walls or why their eyes flash . For my money Attack Force is one of the worst written films I have ever seen & the worst film Seagal has made ( or likely to make ) which is saying something . Besides being conceptually awful Attack Force has production values to match , you will simply not believe the dubbing in Attack Force it's so bad . Every so often Seagal's voice changes completely as he is overdubbed for no apparent reason , couldn't Seagal have done it himself ? The guy who dubs Seagal sounds literally nothing like him . It's very odd watching a familiar Seagal on screen but hearing a completely different voice come out of his mouth & sometimes during the same scene to make things even more laughable . The action scenes are awful , there's some really lame hand to hand combat stuff that is so poorly shot & edited it's just a complete mess to watch . There's no car chases or explosions or big stunts & apart from a few forgettable shoot-outs there's little here to even suggest it's an action film . The makers decided to set the final showdown in a run down château for some reason , it's actually quite an atmospheric location but Attack force is meant to be a high octane action film not a horror film . The film has very low colour levels the picture seemed far too dark to me . Apparently the budget for this was $12 , 000 , 000 which I simply can't believe , there's no way this cost twelve big ones & if it did where did all the money go ? Filmed in Bucharest in Romania . The acting here is atrocious too , apart from the already mentioned Lisa Lovbrand who is a complete hottie no-one is worth mentioning & Seagal is just terrible as usual as he is so fat & out of shape he doesn't convince as an action star anymore . Attack Force is an absolutely terrible film on every level , this just doesn't have any redeeming features at all as far as I am concerned . Not to be confused with the Mel Gibson action film Attack force Z ( 1982 ) .
I really , really hated this one .	Maniacts starts as a serial killer known as ' Blueblood ' , whose name in reality is Joe Spinelli ( Jeff Fahey ) , is caught by the police & sentenced to be locked away in the Edgemare Insane Asylum . There he meets fellow serial killer Beth Windsor ( Kellie Waymire ) & the two fall in love , those in charge of the Edgemare Institute are corrupt & abusive to the inmates there expect a kindly old ex-cop who helps Joe escape when it becomes clear the administrator & doctor's want Joe dead . Free in the outside world Joe decides to break back into Edgemare & free Beth which he does & they both head out to the country & find a kind old farmer who gives them a place to stay & some work but it's not long before the serial killer's past catches up with them . . . Directed by C . W . Cressler I have to say that I hated Maniacts with a passion , I hated every single moment of it from start to finish & this was one of the most painful viewing experiences I have had in recent times . For a start the meaningless title Maniacts has no relevance to anything & apparently the film actually had the working title ManiaX , a film of two halves ( although both are equally as bad as each other ) the first half of Maniacts is set in an insane asylum & focuses on Joe & Beth falling in love before one of the guards decides to let Joe , a serial killer , just escape for no good reason before Joe gets back inside the asylum with no explanation given as to how as he just literally ' appears ' there next to Beth . The second half sees the odd couple out on a farm in the country before a rubbishy forgettable ending . Sometimes you watch a film & say that it's awful because of low production values , a silly story , bad acting , poor direction or whatever & then there are films such as Maniacts which just make you want to hate them , everything about Maniacts is awful from the horrible character's to the terrible dialogue to the poor script to the incoherent plot to the deeply , deeply unfunny comic moments mixed in with some very cheap looking & poorly edited gore scenes . The script tries to make some judgements & pass comment on the system for the criminally insane but it's generally lost in the awfulness of it all & it doesn't follow through on these issues anyway . I think the main reason I hate Maniacts so much is because of the two main character's who I just found so unlikable & annoying , most good films have character's you can relate too , root for & emphasise with but those qualities are complete ; y lacking in either Joe or Beth & that just killed the film for me . I don't want to spend 90 odd minutes of my time following character's whom I hate & add that to a rubbish plot Maniacts is a complete disaster in my eyes & the worst film I have seen in quite a while . A cross between One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest ( 1975 ) along with a bit of Benny & Joon ( 1993 ) & some Bonnie and Clyde ( 1967 ) mixed up with some serial killer thriller like Henry : Portrait of a Serial Killer ( 1986 ) this is far worse than any of those & it's mix of romantic off beat comedy & horror film with it's cheap gore set-pieces meant it felt like a total mess to me . There's a bit when a head explodes , someone has a large flagpole stuck through their body , there's a sliced off hand & some gunshot wounds as far as the gore & violence goes . The end is supposed to feature a parade attended by the Queen of England & like a lot of film Maniacts makes the ( trivial ) mistake of playing bagpipes on the soundtrack which are Scottish not English when it really should be God Save the Queen which is the national anthem . Filmed in Santa Fe in New Mexico the production values are reasonable if forgettable , the special effects are cheap & there's no real style to it . The acting was poor in my eyes , Jeff Fahey seems to sleepwalk through this , I hated Waymire as Beth while Leslie Easterbrook has a small role as an evil doctor . Maniacts is a film that I hated , it's one of those films which just rubbed me up the wrong way , it's nowhere near as clever as it likes to think it is , it's not funny in the slightest & I just want to completely forget about this as soon as possible . Thanks for reading , now you don't have to sit through this , seriously there's no need to thank me .
Total rubbish , don't waste your time .	Escarabajos Asesinos , or Scarab to English speaking audiences , begins with some silly scrolling text which reads , " long , long ago when there was neither earth nor sky , nothing but a dark , watery mass , there lived a spirit possessing magical powers . One day the spirit took counsel with it's heart and was moved to speak it's own name , brought into being a grand , majestic . This figure-the God , Khepera , whose symbol was the Scarab " grammatical errors aside this piece of text means nothing . We then cut to the laboratory of Wilfred Manz ( Rip Torn ) P . H . D . Physics . Manz is conducting some sort of experiment on an Egyptian artifact that is in the shape of a Scarab . After reciting some silly dialogue nothing happens so Manz punches some glass beakers in frustration and cuts himself . His blood drips onto the Scarab and a shadowy figure rises from a swirl of smoke & bad neon lighting . Jack Murphy ( Robert Ginty ) is an American reporter working in the Spanish capital Madrid , after getting into bed with the wrong woman his editor Raleigh ( Sam Chew Jr . ) says he is going to give him one more chance & sends Murphy to cover a boring press conference by the Spanish Prime Minister ( Hector Alterio ) on ' new morality ' . Half way through his speech the Minister grabs a security officers gun and commits suicide . Murphy notices a Spanish nurse named Elena ( Cristina Sanchez Pascual ) take a small Scarab which had fallen from the Minister's lapel . Sensing a story Murphy follows Elena . After various inane plot devices & coincidences it turns out that Elena is Manz's daughter & that Manz is now the leader of an Egyptian cult ( since it's set in Spain shouldn't it be a Spanish cult ? ) who apparently wants to save the world by bringing back the Dark Ages before mankind destroys itself with an Atom Bomb , makes sense yeah ? Manz & his followers plan on doing this by assassinating heads of state & men in power . I said it was bad , don't blame me . Elena feels she has to stop him , Murphy does too . But in reality Manz has plans for both Murphy & his daughter Elena . Oh , & for some unexplained reason Manz steals some money from a banker named Harrington ( Donald Pickering ) by blowing the Bank of England up . So , in an incredibly lame climax it's Manz & his worshippers against Murphy & Elena in a fight to the death ! First off I should apologise if I've made Escarabajos Asesinos sound exciting or interesting because , frankly , it's as dull as dishwater & about as much fun . Co-written & directed by Steven-Charles Jaffe I absolutely hated this film . I find it incredibly hard to comprehend that it took four people , Jaffe , Robert Jaffe , Ned Miller & Jim Block to write this crap . Four people ? Maybe everyone had their own ideas & that's why it turned into the mess that it did . Maybe there were creative differences , or maybe these four people have no talent & just didn't know how to write a decent horror / thriller . You decide ! Escarabajos Asesinos is extremely slow & uninvolving . I never felt that anyone or anything was in danger , I mean taking over the world by assassinating government figures ? There are only two assassinations throughout the entire film , & then the film tries to surprise us by saying this plan was a front for something else even less exciting and even more boring if that's possible . I hate this film , I almost fell asleep watching it . Ginty has all the personality & acting ability of a peeled Bannana & his falling in love with Elena was hardly a surprise , I mean just once can't the leading man and woman hate each other & resist the temptation to get into bed with each other after less than half a day of meeting each other ? Forget about any blood or gore as there isn't any apart from a so brief it's almost subliminal cut chest & stomach . There is however plenty of nudity as not only does Manz have a collection of worshippers , he has a collection of young female almost totally naked dancing worshippers , who say things like " don't you want any of us ! ? " ! Manz's lair is totally ridiculous , foam rocks and no walls , just a totally black background that looks like a school stage play with big black curtains hanging down . And there is dry ice swirling around all the time , some stupid looking trees without leaves and some ancient artifacts that glow in the dark ! The costumes look cheap as does the children's face paint they all wear , Rip Torn looks very fetching with silver eye shadow ! There is no atmosphere , gore or excitement during the overly long 90 minute running time . The only good thing I can say about Escarabajos Asesinos is that it is made with a fair amount of competence throughout , bad sets aside that is ! Please do your best to avoid this film as it hurts me to think some other poor soul may have to sit through it , if I can just stop one single person having to endure this piece of crap then this review has been worth it . Avoid at all costs !
" He's so blasted he wouldn't know his own mother even if he went to the zoo . " Absolutely terrible .	Howling : New Moon Rising starts out in the open Californian desert as a police Inspector ( John Ramsden ) is faced with the skeletal remains of a man near the isolated locale of Pioneertown . Not only does he have to deal with skeletal remains he has to listen to Father John ( Jack Huff ) who works for the Church investigating supernatural & occult goings-on , Father John claims the man was victim to a Werewolf & that very Werewolf is about to mature into adulthood at which point it will be able to change other's into Werewolves & thus spreading it's race throughout the country . Meanwhile in Pioneertown a stranger named Ted Smith ( Clive Turner , I will come back to this guy later . . . ) has arrived , Ted finds the locals very hospitable as the owner of ' Happy Harriet's ' gives him a job as a barman & they also let him have a room in their motel . However it quickly transpires that Ted may not be what he at first seems as some of the locals begin to become suspicious of him , for instance who was that drunk ( Brett Owens ) who seemed to know Ted & threatened to ' expose ' him for what he really is ? What do the locals of Pioneertown really know about Ted & can they trust him . . . This English production ( at this point I'm embarrassed to be British ) was edited , written , produced , directed & starred Clive Turner who really should never be let anywhere near a film camera again , ever . Howling : New Moon Rising was the seventh , & to date last , film in the Howling series that began with The Howling back in 1981 . The best parts of Howling : New Moon Rising are the bits edited into it from two previous entries , Howling IV : The Original Nightmare ( 1988 ) & Howling V : The Rebirth ( 1989 ) which probably amount to a good 10 or so minutes . The script also tries to tie these films together & even mentions the events from the previous instalment Howling VI : The Freaks ( 1991 ) . Now , as a horror film fan you have to be able to take a chance on a film that you have never heard of but will probably turn out to be complete & utter crap , it goes with the territory . Sometimes you will come across an absolute gem , while other times you find a film that will pass the time reasonably enough & then there's films like Howling : New Moon Rising which are the cinematic equivalent of having your trousers pulled down & having a large vegetable inserted into your rectum . Now I've had my fair share of cinematic vegetable insertions but every once in a while a film comes along so utterly awful that I wonder why I bother , Howling : New Moon Rising is such a film . It is devoid of any entertainment value whatsoever , just take my word for it this deserves it's pathetically low score on the IMDb . Director Turner makes one of the most awful films ever . There is no excitement , tension , atmosphere , blood or gore except in the scenes stolen from the other Howling films & the Werewolf in this one is on screen for all of 30 seconds & I kid you not . Add that to the fact that it's one of the most pathetic looking creations I've seen in a horror film for sometime & this really isn't much of a Werewolf film at all . Then there's the country & western music & the cringe inducing line dancing scenes , don't get me wrong I have nothing against either of these forms of recreational entertainment but here they are just plain embarrassing as every so often the film goes into a line dancing or musical number . The cowboy type clothing , hats , boots & general talk is , quite simply , embarrassing & frankly hideous . There are also elements of comedy like penis size & fart jokes , well I'd didn't find much to laugh at . Going straight-to-video technically Howling : New Moon Rising is rubbish , from the lame story , the unfunny comedy , the naff cowboy character's , the terrible special effects , the lack of any blood or gore & to cap it all off the acting is awful including editor , writer , producer & director Turner who has shoulder blade length hair & silly facial hair . This film is really bad & I've seen some absolute stinkers in my time , it even ends on a nice ' happily ever after ' country & western singalong as the credits rolls . There is not one single aspect by which I could recommend Holwing : New Moon Rising to anyone , avoid at all costs & you have been warned !
There are bad films & then there's Swamp Zombies .	Swamp Zombies starts as a FBI inspection of his Hospital forces misguided scientist Dr . Phillips ( Shannon Solo ) to call in his shady contacts to quickly dispose of his unethical experiments into the re-animation of the dead . Unfortunately they dump the cadavers into the nearest swamp ( looks like a lake to me ) & think the job is done , however these corpses were injected with Phillips re-animation serum & , surprise surprise , come back to life as rotting flesh eating zombies ! A student field expedition will provide plenty of fresh meat , can the local kick boxing Ranger Jack ( writer , producer , director & coward Len Kabasinski hiding from embarrassment under the pseudonym of Leon South ) save the day & can Dr . Phillips bizarre experiments be stopped ? Starring , written , produced & directed by the aforementioned Len Kabasinski there are films which are so bad it's untrue , then there's the celluloid abomination that is Swamp Zombies . This is quite possibly the worst film I've seen since the last worst film I saw , seriously though Swamp Zombies has made it into my prestigious worst ever films list & boy have I seen some stinkers in my time , to gain a place on this list a film has to have certain qualities , a certain type of badness , it has to be a so mind-numbingly bad film as to make me want to me poke my eyes out & Swamp Zombies has those unique , hard to achieve qualities . For a start the character's are awful , to call them one-dimensional & bland would be too kind , the dialogue is terrible as for some reason these people can't seem to string a proper sentence together , it's an absolute bore to sit through with a predictable & clichéd ' plot ' although I use the term plot very loosely , all the zombie attacks are virtually the same & end up with the human character's having a karate fight with them , however on the plus side Swamp Zombies might just be the best horror / zombie / martial arts film ever made , not that I can think of any others mind you . Then there's the fact that Swamp Zombies lasts for more than two hours ! Jesus Christ almighty , how the hell did I make it through two hours of this cinematic turd ? I could go on all day about how bad this is but that would be silly so I'll just say I hate Swamp Zombies & I hate every single aspect of it , it's as simple & straight forward as that . This is one of the worst directed films I've ever seen , there's virtually no direction at all . No-one puts any effort into anything & they just sort of either stand there or jog depending on the scene , the scene when the old man is first attacked by the zombies & runs through the wood waving his arms in the air letting out a little wailing noise is hilarious & the bit when a fat redneck guy comes face-to-face with a zombie & he says ' oh my god ' like he was asking someone to change the channel on the TV . There's also another fight scene set atop a car park where it starts out during the day & after a few punches have been thrown it's pitch black . There's absolutely no scares , there's no tension or atmosphere & most of it is shot during the day with lame scenes of people practising kick boxing on the zombies . There's no real gore either , there's the usual blood splattering but no proper graphic gore effects & the zombies themselves look awful . With an ultra low $12 , 000 budget it shows , I don't wish to be unkind but Swamp Zombies is nothing more than a glorified home film & has the production values to match . This is just terrible in every respect including the acting which is awful . Swamp Zombies is possibly the worst film I've ever seen , I'm sure no-one sets out to make a bad film but when it's this bad & we have to spend our hard earned money & time watching it it's difficult to cut it any slack or have any sympathy for the filmmakers . I hated it , plain & simple .
Oh dear , oh dear . Total crap .	Night starts late one night as a cop ( I think ) named Mike Jericho ( John Hardy ) finds himself in the middle of a robbery , as he tackles the robber ( Will Green ) a woman named Tonia ( Melanie Ginnett ) is shot in the chest & survives . Wondering why Mike sets about tracking her down & once he does she reveals herself to be a Vampire & bites his wrist which turns him into one , Mike seems pretty happy about it so all's well with the world except Mike's best mate & partner Jimi Cannon ( Shawn LeTang ) is determined to find Mike & save him from his newly found Vampire friends whether he likes it or not . . . Edited , photographed , written , produced & directed by Byron C . Miller I thought Night was one of the worst films I have ever seen & believe me I've seen some crap films . The so called script isn't worthy of the name , this has no discernible storyline , nothing drives the film forward , it's incredibly dull & boring plus the characterisation is some of the worst I've had the displeasure to see . The dialogue is awful , there's no action , there's next to no gore & it took me four attempts over three days to get through to the end of this piece of crap . Now I realise this had the sort of budget which probably wouldn't stretch to a round of drinks but that is no excuse , I'm sorry but when I have spend good money & 90 odd minutes of my life to watch this utter crap I find it difficult to have any sympathy & I genuinely struggle to see how anyone could gain any sort of entertainment or pleasure from such a poor film . Night is the sort of film which makes you lose the will to live , Night is the sort of film which makes you feel like poking your eyes out & Night is the sort of film which I personally think is killing the horror genre . Director Byron quite obviously hasn't made a film before & quite obviously has no experience in doing so , this is basically a home movie shot on a digital camcorder using friends & family as cast & crew & edited on a cheap software package on a PC . This is one of the worst looking amateurish films I've seen since Swamp Zombies ( 2005 ) . Forget about any gore as it's strictly of the plastic axes stuck to peoples foreheads type variety , there's a bit of nudity & some fight scenes which are absolutely pathetic . I'm sorry but I just don't have anything positive to say about this crap . With a supposed budget of about $7 , 000 which is maybe the second lowest budgeted film I've seen Night looks horrible in every regard from cheap lighting , poor special effects , bland locations which amount to a warehouse , a few street corners , a car park & a roof , rubbish acting & awful muffled hard to understand shot on set dialogue . Night is an absolutely terrible film , I hated every single second of it & the fact it's low budget is simply no excuse for such crap . My advice is to avoid this celluloid turd at all costs & do something fun instead like having your fingernails pulled out with pliers . Edit , to the guy who did the make-up effects & posted a comment referring to mine . Firstly I didn't say I could do better & I know for a fact that I couldn't which I freely & openly admit because I don't want to make a film & have absolutely zero interest in doing so , I simply want to be entertained by them & frankly Night fell someway short for me . Secondly I'm sorry but if I pay good money & spend 90 minutes of my life watching Night then I can say whatever I want about it , period . Thirdly for what it's worth I genuinely hope the film finds an audience & is successful for you , at the end of the day I didn't it like but so what ? I'm just but one person on a planet of 6 billion . . .
Awful attempt from Jesus Franco at a jungle adventure / cannibal film .	Dr . Jeremy Taylor ( Al Cliver ) , Jerry to his lady friends ! , is a specialist in tropical diseases . Together with his wife Elizabeth ( Pamela Stanford ) and young daughter Lana ( Anouchka ) he is traveling by boat to a remote jungle Hospital to conduct some research . However the captain of the boat warns Jeremy that a previous expedition was attacked , killed and eaten by a local tribe of cannibals . Some cannibals sneak on board the boat , even though they had to swim across the river to the boat when they board it they are completely dry . The cannibals kill the captain with a spear . They grab Elizabeth and do what cannibals do best , they rip her stomach open , pull her intestines out and eat them . Jeremy witnesses this , the cannibals decide to kidnap Jeremy and take him back to their village . Lana manages to hide from the cannibals and is not seen . Later she is found floating in a river by the tribes leader and his young son , immediately she is worshiped as a ' white goddess ' and is also taken to the village . Once there , the cannibals chop the lower half of Jeremy's left arm off . They cook it over a fire and start to eat it . They are soon distracted by the arrival of their leader and Lana . Jeremy senses his opportunity and makes his escape . He is found and rescued by two men in a jeep . Cut to New York , cue lots of shots of the Statue of Liberty and the Manhattan skyline . Jeremy is Hospitalized and considered mad , but he does get a sexy nurse , Ana ( Lina Romay ) to look after him and take him for walks around Manhattan . When Jeremy is released he heads straight for Barbara Shelton ( Shirley Knight ) , the president of the Shelton organization who funded his original expedition . He tries to obtain funding for another trip so he can find his now grown up daughter ( Sabrina Siani ) . Eventually she agrees as long as herself , her lover Charles Fenton ( Olivier Mathot ) and some of their rich friends who want to come along for an adventure , can join him . Jeremy's sexy nurse Ana also tags along . While taking some photos of each other Barbara steps onto a severed hand . Jeremy also find his Hospital which has been attacked and all the staff killed . As the remaining group carry on towards the cannibals village they are picked off one-by-one . Directed by Jesus Franco this is a pretty inept film . At least one of the expedition isn't given a name which sums up the depth of character Franco wanted to achieve . The cannibals themselves are laughable , they decorate themselves with children's face paint , and have dodgy haircuts . The village is depicted by two huts . And why do the females in this film wear high heeled boots ? They look good ladies but aren't very practical considering their hiking through the middle of thick jungle . There is also a plastic crocodile at the beginning that looks stupid . Talking of plastic props , Franco uses several plastic skulls that maybe he borrowed from Jerry Warren after he had made Frankenstein Island ( 1981 ) , they don't even have hollow eye sockets . The editing is poor , Lana is seen looking through the window of the boat , the next time she is seen she is floating in a river , thats as clear as mud as to what happened there then . At the end when the main cannibals head is held underwater , when he gets up his hair is wet and his face paint is smudged , in the next shot after that he is dry and his face paint is perfect . The one thing that could have saved this the gore , is also ruined by Franco . He films the cannibal scenes in such a way that they are boring . Unbelievable but true . He uses slow motion , jerkiness , extreme close ups , blurriness , the odd shot in black and white that appear to be placed in there at random , and on the soundtrack he uses chanting , heavy breathing and echoing . It's a shame because the effects aren't to bad , lots of animal intestines , blood , rib cages and fake torn flesh , it's just the way Franco presents it . He makes sure there's plenty of naked flesh around , too . Sabrina Siani is always at least half naked whenever she appears on screen , which isn't a bad thing by any means . Franco has a cameo as a businessman who trades with the cannibals . There are much better cannibal films out there , but this is good for a few unintentional laughs . It keeps moving at a fair pace but overall is very poor . Don't waste your time .
Awful horror film , the sort of film the fast forward button was invented for .	This film opens with the on screen caption " on August 10th in a California Drive-In it all began . . . " A young couple are murdered while sitting in their car at a drive-in watching a film , by an unknown psycho with a large oriental sword . Two fat cops Mike and John ( James Barnes and Micheal Alden ) are put on the case , but unfortunately when it comes to solving the crime and capturing the killer these guys are about as useful as a chocolate fireguard . They interrogate a few people connected with the drive-in , Germy ( Douglas Gudbye ) the all round dogsbody , and Atkin Johnson ( Newton Naushaus ) the hilariously bad tempered and foul mouthed manager . This leads to a funny conversation between the two cops and Atkins , Atkins says teenagers are dicks and one of the cops replies " well , I have two of them " referring to the two dead kids from the opening sequence , the other cop quickly buts in and says " teenagers that is ! " , funny stuff and it doesn't end there . The cops helpfully observe " well , she's in pretty bad shape , she was murdered with a sword " and when they want to talk with Atkins again one says " lets go get that bald headed garbage can ! " Anyway , they are baffled , the only lead they have is a man named Orville ( Norman Sherlock ) who hangs around the drive-in and spy's on people in their cars having sex , but when questioned by the two cops he claims he had nothing to do with the killings and he says " I just wanted to beat my meat ! " , hey that's what the guy said . All their leads come to dead ends . Will the two cops be able to unmask the killer in time , before more innocent lives are lost ? Co-written , produced and directed by Stuart Segall this is just plain terrible . The acting is awful as is the photography and music . There are a couple of good gore scenes , a decapitation , a slit throat and an impaling , there just should have been more of them . But that's nowhere near a good enough reason to sit through this rubbish . The script by George ' Buck ' Flowers and John F . Goff is slow , dull , boring and predictable . There's a scene where the two fat cops stakeout the drive-in , in disguise . One of them dresses in drag , he looks ridiculous and then they start to have a stupid conversation about where he's going to pee ! There is also another scene where two victims are watching an unknown film in their car , the guy says " what a turkey ! " and " this plots been done before " , you will know exactly how he feels , I also wondered if his dialogue was included by the filmmakers as a little self referring joke , it sums up the film well . Half the film appears to be padding , there's a five minute sequence in which Germy walks around a funfair for absolutely no reason whatsoever , among other pointlessly drawn out scenes . The ending is also one of the worst ever , nothing is concluded . One to avoid . This does have a great tag line on the video cover though , ' You'll pay to get in . . . and pray to get out ! ! ' , that's true enough , you'll pray to get out alright , just way before this thing finishes .
Vampire Sisters is a prime example of why the horror genre is dying .	I seems that I'm the first to comment on Vampire Sisters , OK IMDb'ers this is what I think . . . Vampire Sisters starts on a dark misty night , an unidentified man is running towards a large house & in pursuit are two women . The man ends up in the basement of the house & is cornered by the women , then a third woman throws some rope around him . The three women are Stacy ( Jeannie Michelle Jameson ) who looks about 6 feet tall , Dawn ( Darla Albornoz ) the young ( ish ) , cute , normal good looking one & Tasha ( Syn DeVil ) whose breasts look so over inflated she might topple over at any point . Together they run a website called VampSisters . com which covers a multitude of fantasies like S & M , voyeurism or just good old fashioned sex . This guy is a customer of the site & has been invited to fulfil his own fantasy with the Sisters so what has happened so far is just his own personal kink . Before he knows it he's upstairs handcuffed to a bed . OK this guy is obviously having fun so far but things quickly change as the Sisters kill him , drink his blood & chuck his body in their shed out back where something named Iggy ( Steven ' Proz ' Prosser ) sees to the left overs . . . Soon after another man named Frederick Smith ( Bill Debrason ) who's into pain arrives & is duly dispatched by having a meat hook whacked into his family jewels , ouch . Again the Sisters drink his blood & dispose of the body in the same way . Just so there is some sort of plot in Vampire Sisters two vice squad detectives named Sonny Renko ( Mark Lassise as Mark C . Lassise ) & Jennifer Hunt ( Leanna Chamish ) notice that the VampSisters . com website is local & that they are offering addition ' services ' to their highest spending customers , they decide to take an interest & monitor the site . By a coincidence they discover that several customers of VampSisters . com have disappeared recently , Sonny increases his spending on the site in the hope of an invitation which eventually arrives via e-mail . Sonny & Jennifer set out to the Sisters house only to find terror & bloodshed . . . Directed by Joe Ripple who also appears in the film & has an ' additional music ' credit as well , I personally think it's films like Vampire Sisters that's killing the horror genre , Vampire Sisters is quite simply a real bargain basement , bottom of the barrel piece of crap excuse for a film . The script by Don Dohler who also edited , wrote , produced & photographed the thing is absolutely terrible . It's just these three Vampire Sisters luring guys & gals back to their house putting on a bit of a sexual fantasy for them because at one point one of the Sisters claims that ' blood tastes better if the victim is sexually aroused ' , killing them & drinking their blood . Sounds good , right ? Wrong , it becomes incredibly boring after the third time as it's not particularly graphic in either a sexual or violent sense . Vampire Sisters main ambition seems to be nothing more than produce a cheap , pathetic & miserable attempt at mild titillation followed by a silly gore effect . The actual story about the two vice squad detectives investigating them is almost none existent , their given about 5 minutes worth of screen time for the first hour & are merely there to try & give the impression that something else is happening when in fact it isn't . There is no attempt at any sort of character development . The three Vampire Sisters themselves are odd , Stacy is just so tall & in certain scenes looks like she's a man , Tasha's enhanced breasts are just horrible & saggy looking which leaves Dawn as the only attractive one & somewhat predictably she doesn't take her clothes off . The gore effects are limited , mostly confined to splashing blood but there is a scene where a man has his eyes drilled out , or should that be drilled in ? The special effects are awful as well , the blood looks far too runny , almost like red water . There are a couple of brief CGI shots & again they're awful . Surprisingly there isn't much nudity either . Technically Vampire Sisters is awful , the acting is unbelievably rotten all the way through . The photography sucks , on the making of documentary on the DVD it clearly shows that Vampire Sisters was shot on a digital camcorder & as a result it doesn't look like a film , it was probably shot in natural light & everything looks bland , muddy & just plain boring . It also says on the documentary that Vampire Sisters was shot in the directors house , get used to it as the film almost exclusively takes place there . The direction is terrible , there's no close ups , establishing shots or any camera ticks to break up the tedium of point shoot & hope for the best , the film fails to generate any tension or atmosphere whatsoever . Ripple obviously used the quickest set up that he could with the least number of shots he needed for the scene to work , well work in his eyes anyway . The average Mexican soap opera has better production values & looks like more effort was put into it . I could probably go on all day about how bad this film is but I don't want to even think about it anymore , the only positive thing I can say is that some of the outfits that the girls wear look quite nice especially the fetish ones & that in a way it's quite a good idea for a film . It's just a shame that the finished product ended up as throughly bad as it did . Please don't waste your money on this crap & then maybe these types of filmmakers will be forced to rethink the rubbish they make & actually start to put some effort in their films . Absolutely awful .
Absolutely awful Australian supernatural horror that's as exciting as watching paint dry .	An on screen caption informs us ' Alison - Sixteen years , Four months ' . Alison Findlay ( Joanne Samuel ) & two of her school friends , Chrissie Willis ( Margie McCrae ) & Maureen Tate ( Julie Wilson ) are holding a séance . Spooky things begin to happen & Chrissie becomes possessed with Alison's dead Father's spirit who warns her about what will happen on her nineteenth birthday . Chrissie is crushed to death by a bookcase that falls on her . The credits roll & then another on screen caption now helpfully informs us ' Alison - Eighteen years , Eleven months , Twenty Six days ' . As Alison's nineteenth birthday fast approaches her Aunt Jenny ( Bunny Brooke as Bunney Brooke ) , who along with her Uncle Dean ( John Bluthal ) brought Alison up when her parent died while she was a baby , phones her & invites Alison to her childhood home for her birthday . Alison agrees as Jenny also informs her that her Uncle is ill & has only a short time to live . Alison decides to take along her boyfriend Peter Healy ( Lou Brown , the IMDb is wrong as Peter is not Alison's uncle , it's definitely Uncle Dean ) , they travel down & at first things are fine as Alison remembers her childhood & is reunited with Jenny & Dean , Alison is untroubled by the miniature Stone Hendge at the bottom of their garden . But that night Alison has terrible nightmares & wakes up to find a 103 year old woman ( Marion Johns ) in a wheelchair by the side of her bed . Jenny & Dean claim that the woman is her Grandmother they never told her about , despite this Alison still thinks everything is fine . Peter becomes suspicious when Uncle Dean warns him to stay away from Alison for a couple of days , Peter tries to see Alison but is told a phony excuse about her having nervous exhaustion by a dodgy looking Doctor named Jeremy Lyall ( Vincent Ball ) who when questioned is very evasive . When Peter forcibly tries to remove Alison the police are called & he is arrested . Peter decides to investigate further & visits a friend named Sally Brown ( Lisa Peers ) who seems to be some sort of astrologer , Peter mentions the name Mirne , the name Alison mentioned from her nightmare . Sally looks in a book & authoritatively says that Mirne was in ancient Celtic mythology a powerful female demon worshipped by Celtic magicians & was said to dwell in stone . Things turn nasty quickly for both Peter as he unearth's some sinister & shocking facts , & for Alison as her Aunt & Uncle have special plans for her nineteenth birthday party . . . Written & directed by Ian Coughlan Alison's Birthday is as dull as dishwater & as exciting as watching paint dry , I was bored to tears . The script is so slow it's untrue , the script goes for psychological terror totally ignoring the exploitative possibilities , & it fails completely which is no surprise . There is no suspense or tension & everything is so uninteresting & just plain dull . Nothing exciting , scary , gory or interesting happens until the last ten or so minutes when there is a decent climax & twist ending , unfortunately for Alison's Birthday this is far too little , far too late . Not one single drop of blood is spilt throughout , there is no nudity or bad language either & while these things aren't necessary for a horror film to be either good or entertaining they sure as hell help & since Alison's Birthday is so drawn out & dull some decent exploitation elements would have livened things up considerably . As it is Alison's Birthday is one of the most boring uneventful films I've seen . The film is also very flat & basic in terms of production values , it's not a poorly made made film but it isn't a particularly well made one either which makes it even more painful to sit through . Another minus against Alison's Birthday is that it is an Australian produced film & therefore everyone have annoying accents ( G'day mate want to come to me barbie ? ) , sorry but it's true ! I can't think of a single good feature about Alison's Birthday by which I could recommend it . I pretty much hate this film , no matter how cheap you may be able to pick this up for don't bother unless your an insomniac that is . Guaranteed to have most people reaching for the ' stop ' or ' fastforward ' buttons well before it's anywhere near finished , do yourself a favour & avoid Alison's Birthday . Trust me you'll be glad you did .
" It doesn't matter how ugly the road is , we all have to travel down it . " Could Brain Fix possibly be the worst horror film ever ?	Brain Fix starts with with a narration by Jeff Feud ( Charles Coplin ) who informs us that he has flown to Mexico & drove out into the middle of nowhere to spend the summer in his Father's clinic . However upon arrival he is assaulted by Sven ( Jiri " George " Petracek ) the scumbag orderly who doesn't believe he is Dr . P . Feud's ( Jack Savage ) son . Luckily for Jeff his Father turns up & sets the record straight . Jeff explains that he wants to spend the summer with him & assist him in his experiments on curing schizophrenia & other mental illnesses , his Father just makes him mop the floors which is all he's good for by the look of it . Jeff is introduced to Norm ( Richard Arvay ) , one of his Fathers patients who has been supposedly cured but Jeff isn't convinced as Norm is still a nut case . Jeff also meets & befriends another patient , an attractive female patient named Molly ( Kristin Dean Boswell ) who appears totally normal . Jeff decides to have a look at what his Father's up to so he sneaks into his operating room & is sickened & appalled at what he witnesses . It seems that his Father is conducting hideous experiments with parasitic creatures called Paratosas which excrete a euphoric enzyme directly into the patients brain after it has been surgically implanted into a unfortunate patients head , Dr . Feud hopes that this natural drug will cure all mental disease , I haven't got a clue why so don't ask , but as of now has been unsuccessful . Dr . Feud discovers that Jeff has found out what is happening & together with his new found girlfriend Molly is next on the operating schedule . . . Co-edited , produced & co-directed by Scott Wallace with Jay Amin as the second director I hate Brain Fix with a passion . I see there is only one other review of Brain Fix at the moment & that user has given it , well we were obviously watching different films . Brain Fix is absolutely awful in every single way a film could possibly be . The acting is terrible , for most of this rotten film everyone just stands there & says their lines without the slightest hint of emotion or effort , & when these ' actors ' do try it comes across as totally embarrassing just check out the fight at the end which has to be the most wimpy I've seen as they just sort of hold each other & scratch a bit . Brain Fix is one of the most shoddy & incompetent films I've ever had the misfortune to sit through , basic film-making techniques are either botched or ignored . These filmmakers light scenes from the side which produce glaring shadows in the direction that would be physically impossible if the laws of science are to be believed . For some strange reason half of the sound effects are missing like a gun being fired but with no accompanying blast & a fight with no sound effects either & there is no music whatsoever during Brain Fix even during the opening & ending credits . For the clinic the filmmakers use the same corridor & the same room throughout , one character even says at one point ' all these corridors look the same ' which was maybe an attempt at a joke , well it wasn't funny in the slightest & the corridors look the same because they are the same one used over & over . The one room they use is laughable , it has wooden planks nailed across the window to stop the inmates escaping ! Brain Fix is rock bottom stuff all the way , there aren't even any laughs to be had as it's just so painful & dull to sit through . There are no scares , no sub plots to give us a break from Jeff & his Father , no atmosphere & a complete lack of anything that even remotely resembles entertainment . The script by Ted Chalmers & Tracy Charlton is terrible , the characters will get on your nerves , it's as slow & dull as any horror film I've seen & it doesn't make any sense at all . I mean how come no one else has ever discovered these parasite things ? How do these things cure mental illness ? They also chuck in a lame & predictable ' twist ' ending too . According to the IMDb Brain Fix had a minuscule budget of $10 , 000 & all I can say is where did the money go ? ! Brain Fix looks even cheaper than that . Forget about any gore either , there's a brief operation scene of one of the parasites being implanted but it's short & like everything else cheap looking . There is also a terrible looking slit throat & that's it , that's your lot ! I hate Brain Fix , it's one of those films that you simply can't express in words how bad it is , it commits the unforgivable crime of being boring which is worse than having rubbishy production values because if a film entertains than I can forgive almost anything . Easily one of the worst horror films ever made & with those missing sound effects was Brain Fix ever truly completed ? Avoid at all costs , you have been warned .
" The Vatican can go to hell ! " Rubbishy low budget The Exorcist rip-off that's thirty five years too late .	Blackwater Valley Exorcism is set on a small town ranch where teenager Isabelle ( Kristin Erickson ) is found wandering around covered in dog's blood . Her parents Ely ( Randy Colton ) & Blanche ( Leslie Fleming-Mitchell ) own the ranch & are deeply worried about their daughter , recently she has not been herself & is considered a danger to herself & other's . Ranch hand & ex-priest Miguel ( Del Zamora ) recognises Isabelle's symptoms as a possible case of possession & when she starts to speak ancient Latin in a strange voice he becomes convinced of it . Blanche calls priest Jacob ( Cameron Daddo ) who is her other daughter Claire's ( Madison Taylor ) ex husband to see Isabelle , he confirms Miguel's suspicions & accepts the job of performing the exorcism that will hopefully banish the demon inside Isabelle & an innocent girl free . . . Directed by Ethan Wiley I was sat there in my house in front of my telly watching Blackwater Valley Exorcism & I kept asking the same question over & over again , why do I do it . Why do I keep sitting through all these awful low budget horror films that look like they were shot on a camcorder ? Right lets honest about this , Blackwater Valley Exorcism is a complete total & utter unashamed rip-off of The Exorcist ( 1973 ) & you literally tick off the major plot points that the two share . There's the possessed teenage girl who starts to get very horny & suggest inappropriate things , the demon that uses past misdemeanour's against other's , the worried parents , the way that the possessed girl is shunned by doctor's , the priest with a troubled past & the possessed girl is tied to her bed amongst other things . I suppose where Blackwater Valley Exorcism is different ( other than it's total crap ) is that it tries to give all the character's some screen time & tries to get across how the situation is affecting them but it's so badly written & acted it just ends up being boring . The film starts with Isabelle already possessed so we never knew what she was like as a normal person so we never really care about her or what is happening to her either , the rest of the character's are poorly written & fleshed out . At times I wondered whether Blackwater Valley exorcism was a spoof , there's a silly scene in which a vet tries to sedate the possessed Isabelle with horse tranquilisers & after he states that she needs a ' little prick ' he enters her room with a huge needle hidden behind his back ! There are a few scenes in which people are punched accompanied by a silly comedy sound effect . The film has an uneven tone as a result as it goes between silly spoof & serious horror drama , or it did in my opinion at least . According to some text before the opening credits Blackwater Valley Exorcism was based on ' Actual Events ' , yeah right actual events from 1973 that happened in a film called The Exorcist . . . This piece of text also states that the exorcism scenes were supervised by a real priest . There isn't even any decent gore or exploitation to liven things up , there's a scene of a cut arm , there's a dead dog , someone is stabbed with a crucifix & that's about it . There's surprisingly no bad language in it either despite the demon trying to be offencive . I would imagine the only reason Blackwater Valley Exorcism has an adult rating is because of one very brief scene in which a pair of breast's are seen . One pair of naked female breast's is not worth the time watching this or the money you might spend on it . There is zero scares , no atmosphere & a really amateurish feel to the whole film too . With a supposed budget of about $1 , 000 , 000 I must say that I am wondering where all the money went , the film looks ugly & cheap throughout . There are no special effects to speak of & the production values are rock bottom . The acting is very poor from all involved , genre favourite Jeffrey Combs gets near top billing during the opening credits but has nothing more than a cameo in what amounts to about five minutes of screen time . Even he must have feared how bad this was going to be has he hides behind a moustache & a terrible accent , he is better than this . Blackwater Valley Exorcism is a complete rip-off of The Exorcist without anything that made that film such a classic & the makers are thirty five years too late anyway . A total turkey from start to finish .
" I feel so helpless just sitting here watching . " Having just watched Horror of the Blood Monsters I know how she feels , absolutely terrible .	Horror of the Blood Monsters starts out by giving the impression that it's a Vampire film with some inane stupid narration ( by someone called Brother Theodore apparently , uncredited ) that claims Vampires are widespread on Earth & are slowly taking over the human race . These Vampires were created when alien Vampires landed on Earth centuries ago from the ' Spectrum Solar System ' & that the infamous scientist Dr . Rynning ( John Carradine ) is heading a space expedition to the ' Spectrum Solar System ' to do some research or something , I don't really care as Horror of the Blood Monsters is already as stupid as any film I've seen . So , Captain Steve Bryce ( Bruce Powers ) , Bob ( Fred Meyers ) , Willy ( Joey Benson ) & their glamorous assistant Linda ( Britt Semad ) together with Dr . Rynning take off in the XP-13 , a state of the art spacecraft ( well , as state of the art as you can get from a spacecraft made out of a washing up liquid bottle , some wires & painted silver ) . Not very well guided by Colonel Manning ( Robert Dix ) & a bird named Valerie ( Vicki Volante ) back on Earth they unfortunately hit a meteorite & are forced to land on an uncharted planet that suffers from ' Chromatic Radiation ' which turns the sky different colours . Once safely landed the team come across various creatures & warring tribes . The encounter a woman named Lian Malian ( Jennifer Bishop ) whom they do a little DIY surgery on & are able to make understand & speak English perfectly . They must find a way to repair the XP-13 , avoid all the hostile creatures , sort out the entire planets problems & make it back to earth safely . . . Produced & directed by Al Adamson who also has a small role during the opening sequence as a Vampire , Horror of the Blood Monsters is as bad as you could possibly imagine & perhaps even worse . The script by Sue McNair has potential , isn't too bad in itself & even tries to add a moral message at the end but in the hands of the infamous Adamson Horror of the Blood Monsters is a real chore to sit through . The incompetence is astounding , lets start with the process ' Spectrum X ' which means most of Horror of the Blood Monsters takes place in annoying colour tints , the entire screen is bleached a single colour & it got on my nerves so much it's untrue , I simply hated it & can't see anyone disagreeing . The film goes to great lengths explain this with the useless ' Chromotic Radiation ' nonsense , in fact Horror of the Blood Monsters if full of stupid inane scientific babble which means nothing & Carradine's character is particularly guilty of this . None of the characters are developed & I hated them all , I never cared for anyone or was in the slightest bit interested in what happened to any of them . Adamson's direction is pathetic & he slows the film down to a snail's pace , he fails to create any sort of excitement or pace & the fights are so poorly choreographed their laughable & beyond tedious . Horror of the Blood Monsters uses different footage from various other films including One Million B . C . ( 1960 ) , Unknown Island ( 1948 ) , Robot Monster ( 1953 ) , The Wizard of Mars ( 1965 ) & Tagani ( 1965 ) which is where the real reason for the ' Spectrum X ' colour tinting is discovered because some of these films were Black and White so Adamson could just tint the whole screen one colour & it would match the rest of the film , brilliant stuff Al . The props like the wobbly aluminium painters ladder on a supposedly futuristic spacecraft , costumes , sets like the truly awful looking spacecraft which consists of a wooden table some old fashioned computers & some of the most basic chairs ever that appear to be two planks of wood nailed together , continuity with the XP-13 having taken off but the footage on the control rooms monitors suggest otherwise & those tribes all of a sudden are able to speak English , the special effects are as bad as anything I've seen & just about everything else are terrible , this is real bottom of the barrel stuff . The monsters are rubbish , there are some stupid looking bat-men , a half a crab man , I say half because he always remains half submerged in water so we never get to see below his waist & the Vampire cavemen have the most fake looking plastic fangs in film history . The acting is so bad it's hard to imagine it could be any worse even if they tried . I hated Horror of the Blood Monsters , sure it has a wonderful title but it is a really crap film . It bored me to tears & I couldn't wait for it to finish . Sci-Fi horror films don't come much worse & it's not even worth a watch in a so-bad-it's-good way either , avoid at all costs .
" Have you set your hands on the fiend , the sadist I mean , the murderer who kills with his mouth . " Another bomb from Jesus ' I have no talent ' Franco .	Les Avaleues , or under one of it's many alternate titles such as Bare Breasted Countess , Erotic Kill , Female Vampire , Insatiable Lust , Jacula ( ! ) , The Last Thrill & The Loves of Irina as they get more & more obscure , starts on the Portuguese island of Maderia where Countess Irina Karlstein ( Lina Romay ) is living in her ancestral home . The mute Countess Karlstein is the latest in a long line of Vampires who preys on various islanders like a farmer ( Roger Germanes ) whom she seduces & kills to satisfy her need for spunk . Police pathologist Dr . Roberts ( the not so great man Jesus Franco himself ! ) lays it on the line for the local police but they refuse to believe his crackpot theories about Vampirism along with the blind & somewhat weird Dr . Orloff ( Jean-Pierre Bouyxou ) who also has really bad facial hair . That's it really folks , there isn't any other story or plot to this piece O ' crap . This French Belgium co-production was edited , photographed , co-written & directed by Jesus ' I have no talent ' Franco who also has a role in the film which proves that along with being a totally useless filmmaker he can't act either ! Is there no beginning to this mans talents ? ! I am aware that Les Avaleuses exists in several different versions & I would be willing to bet that almost all of the comments found on the internet refer to the version titled Female Vampire released on DVD in the states & UK , this version is basically the worst soft-core sex film ever & pretty much every other element is inconsequential . The script by Franco & Gerard Brisseau is so bad it's unbelievable , there is no story , the character's are virtually none existent , nothing even remotely interesting or exciting happens & I struggle to see why Les Avaleuses is even described as a film because it doesn't feel like one while watching it . Personally I think Les Avaleuses feels like random scene sloppily & poorly edited together with the only common factor being the Countess Karlstein & a few of the locations used . I have not one good thing to say about this piece of crap on which I wasted 100 odd minutes of my life , one of the worst ' things ' ( I simply refuse to call it a film ) I've ever had the misfortune to watch . Director Franco again proves that he is totally incompetent both in front & behind the camera , random shots of speed boats & the local scenery , totally unnecessary slow pans & zooms which are both pointless & take up a lot of the running time , he can't keep his camera in focus & he films everything in a flat , boring & throughly dull manner . Most of the version I saw simply consisted of the worst soft-core porn imaginable coupled with some of the worst elevator music my sensitive ears have been subjected too . Everything about this piece of crap is rotten & real bottom of the barrel stuff . There's barely a drop of blood in this cut of the film although a few deleted scenes knocking around suggest that in alternate shots Irina drinks blood . Technically the film is up to Franco's usual standards , which means it's absolutely awful in every regard . I can't stress how much I hated this thing . Since half the character's in this thing are mute there's barely any dialogue so there are long stretches where no one says anything & Franco just plays that terrible music to seemingly random images . The English dubbed dialogue is amongst the worst I've ever heard , it makes no sense most of the time & people just don't talk like this . Les Avaleuses is crap , it's as simple & straight forward as that . Looking at some of the external reviews for Les Avaleuses confirms that nobody , apart from Franco fans on the IMDb , has a good word to say about it & I can see why . If you want a proper sex film then find a proper one rather than this soft-core 70's piece of crap & if you want a proper horror film than get anything other than this misleading rubbish . I'd rather tear my eyes out than have to sit through this piece of crap again , it really is that bad . For insomniacs & masochists only .
Shower of Sht more like , another terrible low budget horror flick .	Shower of Blood is set in Galloway County where women have been mysteriously disappearing & their cannibalised bodies turning up , a killer is on the loose ! Lovers Kurt ( Dave Larsen ) & Lisa ( Lia Montelongo ) along with three of their friends , Megan ( Robin Brown ) who seems to fart a lot , Heather ( Melissa Mountifield ) & Terry ( Peter Renaud ) decide to venture in Galloway Woods where the bodies have been found to make an impromptu visit to Lisa's uncle Marty's ( Martin Shannon ) place & stay the night . Once there there's no sign of uncle Marty so they break in & make themselves comfortable , when uncle Marty does eventually turn up he has an evil secret he's all to keen to share with his unexpected house-guests . . . Directed by Tiffany Kilbourne this straight to video / DVD zero budget piece of crap proves that women can make a horror film just as badly as any man . We've all heard of bottom of the barrel Z movies right ? Well as far as Shower of Sht , sorry Blood goes it's so crap we'd have to invent a 27th letter of the alphabet ! The awful script is credited to David C . Hayes , Kyle Kline & Keith Knapp , that's right folks it took three people to write a screenplay this bad . . . For a start the story is crap & utterly predictable , the pacing is awful & basically nothing happens for what seems like hours , the character's are really bad even by annoying American teen standards & there's nothing here even remotely interesting or entertaining as far as I'm concerned . Call me hard to please & fussy but I actually like my films to have a story , make sense & entertain me , someone tell me am I really asking for too much ? The entire first half an hour of Shower of Sht , sorry there I go again , Blood consists of arguments between the five annoying teens about who is going to bring their luggage in ! Seriously , someone wants some help to bring it in while the other's don't want to help , yep this is exciting stuff folks . The things which happen , or should that be randomly occur , are never explained like who killed Terry & hung him from the tree ? How come uncle Marty is a Vampire ? Why is this film so bad ? This is the sort of crap which is making me lose interest in the horror genre , the genre which I love & always have but when I see this shot on a digital camcorder with amateur actors & crew complete with CGI computer effects that belong in a late 80's Nintendo game like this I lose just a little bit more enthusiasm for the genre that has given me so much pleasure & entertainment over the years & that makes me sad . Director Kilbourne thinks as long as you make all of your female cast members strip & bare their ample breasts on a regular basis no-one will notice how rotten your film is , she's wrong because I for one noticed . Virtually every conversation or situation in Shower of Sht is geared towards getting the female cast to get their breasts out , at one point it's specifically mentioned that uncle Marty has four separate showers in his house just so all the girls have the opportunity to strip & shower whenever they feel like it . The horror elements are poor , it's not scary or atmospheric & there's far more naked breasts on show than blood . Gore wise there's a bitten neck , someone cuts her breast with a straight razor & some Vampire dude drinks from it & that's about it . Technically the film is a glorified home movie , it looks like it was shot on a digital camcorder & I just hate the look of video rather than proper film . To give it some credit the film is surprisingly well lit on occasion but that's hardly any compensation for sitting through this . The acting is awful from everyone involved . Shower of Blood is one of those crap films I'd have turned off after half an hour if I wasn't going to review it , in the interest of fairness I stuck it out which wasn't easy & if I had switched it off after thirty minutes I wouldn't have missed anything . Seriously not recommended .
Another terrible zero budget shot on a camcorder piece of crap horror film .	The Last is set in San Francisco where Professor Wombat is studying an ancient artifact he discovered at an archaeological dig somewhere in Saudi Arabia , a strange orb like relic with blood inside . Having sent a sample off to a company called GeneTech for analysis the boss of GeneTech Sam Faulkner realises that the sample is something special & unique that could make GeneTech millions & wants more of it , sending a man to get it he ends up killing Wombat & failing to find the orb . One of Wombat's students named Sean Bannister is contacted by a man named Vladimir Myklos ( Bruno Kanter ) who claims to be a friend of Wombat & ask's Sean to carry on his work . Sean & his assistant girlfriend Christine ( Caroline Heerwagen ) set about trying to complete Wombat's work & discover why he was killed . . . Directed by Andy Hill as I write this comment for The Last there are no other ' User Comments ' or ' External Reviews ' & it doesn't even have five votes yet , this will obviously change in the fullness of time as people see it & feel compelled to write about how it's the worst film ever made but I can have the first crack at it . The script by Tomas Puig is awful , it's quite literally painful to sit through & I should know since I had the deep misfortune to do so a few hours ago . I still hurt . For a start The Last is one of those zero budget films where all the ' action ' & incident revolves around the budget , The Last is a film written specifically for a low budget & as such there are no action scenes , there's no gore , the locations are boring & cheap like car parks & road sides , the dialogue is terrible , it's so boring & slow I doubt most people will make it to the end & it provides absolutely zero entertainment value & that's what films are all about right ? They are there to entertain for their duration & that's it so when a film such as The Last fails so spectacularly in even this simple yet vital requirement people need to made aware of how bad it is & believe me it is bad unless your a total masochist . The story doesn't make much sense either , why didn't Vladimir just take the orb when Wombat had it ? Why does he need the orb anyway ? How did he even know about the orb ? Why did that hit-man guy phone Sean as he was about to shoot him ? The Last is terrible in every conceivable way , if you do decide to watch this awful film don't say you weren't warned ! Director Hill was obviously working on a low budget but that is simply no excuse , I don't buy into the ' it's low budget so what do you expect ' type argument . Sure it's low budget but that's no excuse or reason as to why The Last is such an awful film , there are plenty of entertaining low budget films out there & I don't think anyone needs to go lightly on it because it had a low budget . It's not like shops are going to sell you the DVD for any less than a hundred million blockbuster equivalent are they ? Of course The Last can be compared to any other film & has to be . It looks like it was shot on a camcorder , the photography is appalling , it's often so dark you can't see what's going on & the camera shakes & jerks about & sometimes misses what's going on & ends up looking directly at the floor or the ceiling . There wasn't any budget for special effects , there's a dead body in a pool of blood , someone has blood smeared around their lips & someone is shot . That's it . According to the IMDb The Last had a budget of about $150 , 000 which does sound quite a lot consider what ended up on screen or rather the lack of what ended up on screen . The production values are rock bottom , I am sorry but if I took my HD camcorder out & filmed some friends & edited it on PC into a film & released it should everyone like it because I tried ? Or because I had a low budget ? Of course not , it would be crap as is this glorified home movie . The acting is awful , just check the scenes out at the end when that guy's daughter is murdered , he doesn't look very upset . The Last is a truly terrible , terrible film , it's awful in every single way & I honestly don't know how else to describe it . Possibly the worst film I have seen this year beating the also awful Blood Predator ( 2007 ) . One of the worst films ever , do yourself a favour & avoid this one at all costs .
Absolutely dreadful pseudo computer game masquerading as a horror film .	Carnivorous starts as Kate ( Leah Rose ) gets a flat tyre while driving in some isolated woods somewhere , soon after a guy ( Chris Flieller ) comes along in a truck & abducts her after knocking her out with a shovel . Kate wakes up to find herself tapped inside what looks like a huge labyrinth that is populated by awful computer game graphics , sorry I mean scary ten foot tall monsters . Along with various other people Kate has to survive the various traps , dodge the monsters & try to find a way out of the maze like labyrinth & to the safety of the real world . . . Written & directed by Drew Maxwell I watched Carnivorous last night , I actually had the choice of watching this , Southern Comfort ( 1981 ) , Kiss the Girls ( 1997 ) or Saw II ( 2005 ) & I definitely made the wrong decision since Carnivorous is one of the worst films it's been my displeasure to endure . At the time of writing this comment Carnivorous has a lowly User Rating of 1 . 8 on the IMDb & I am wondering why so high ? Also at the time of writing this comment there is only one other User Comment & it starts by asking the question ' Why such a low IMDb rating ? ' , well it has such a low rating because it's truly dreadful . It's abysmal . It's appalling in every aspect . It's an awful film , if you can describe it as a film , & it's as simple & straight forward as that really . I have no connection to the film industry , I had never heard of Carnivorous before I watched it , I don't know anyone involved with the film & the director & producer & actor's are just ' names ' to me & I didn't see it at some obscure film festival with an introduction by the director which is all it takes for some people to rave about the biggest pieces of celluloid crap imaginable . I am just an average guy & I cannot understand or see how anyone could find anything in Carnivorous even in the remotest bit enjoyable or entertaining . Both conceptually & technically Carnivorous is appalling . The story is weak , the character development is none existent , the plot makes no sense , there's barely any exposition , it's impossible to care about what is going on & it's unrelentingly dull & boring to boot . Definitely one to avoid . A lot of Carnivorous was shot in a warehouse against a green-screen & the backgrounds & monsters were digitally put in later & the process looks terrible . The perspective is all wrong , character's just don't look right or stand right against the poorly rendered & detailed backgrounds which look awful . It's so dark you can barely see anything , the lighting is all wrong on character's face's & bodies , the CGI monster look terrible & the average PS3 console game looks better with more convincing graphics . Carnivorous is like a poorly made video game but without the fun of the interaction , you just sit there looking at these awful CGI graphics & praying that it's going to finish sooner rather than later . The film has a really odd look & feel , your brain just know's that something is wrong , that something isn't quite right in the way character's walk around or the perspective of certain shots & it's a very odd viewing experience . There's not much gore either , there's a decapitated , an impaling & a cut head but nothing else & all the actor's obviously were working without any on set props & these scenes just don't work as the CGI animators try to match the live action & the CGI but pretty much fail on every occasion . I have never seen another film quite like Carnivorous & I genuinely hope it's a one off & filmmakers don't go down the cheap CGI route not only for backgrounds but sets & props as well . According to the IMDb this had a supposed budget of about $5 , 000 , 000 , yeah right ! Knock at least three zeros off that & I think that would be nearer the true budget . The film has no scares , the lighting is well off , the CGI backgrounds are far too dark & look terrible & the whole film seems to try & go far a Hellbound : Hellraiser II ( 1988 ) feel with it's Gothic style hellish labyrinth complete with dangling hooks on chains but the CGI is awful . The acting is terrible too from no-one I have ever heard of . Carnivorous is a truly terrible film , it's absolutely dreadful & deserves it's lowly IMDb rating . This is definitely ' worst film ever ' material & I would hate to think the techniques used here to make Carnivorous would become widespread in the industry . One of the worst films I have ever endured & I have endured some real rubbish over the years .
Terrible no budget horror thriller crap .	At Dawn They Sleep tells the tale of two drug dealing friends , Stephen ( editor , cinematographer , writer , producer , director , etc , Brian Paulin ) & Ian ( producer , cinematographer , etc , Rich George ) who get bitten by two angels who they decide to sleep with . Unfortunately the bite of an angel turns the victim into a Vampire so Stephen & Ian are left to contemplate their future as blood drinking Vampires who deal in drugs . Actually not that much else happens really . . . Virtually made by himself & starring Brian Paulin I thought At Dawn They Sleep was total complete & utter crap , I'm sorry but it's as simple & straight forward as that . The script is rubbish , the story is so thin it's beyond anorexic , it's incredibly boring , it's dull & it's just a real chore to sit through . The character's are awful & you just instantly hate them all , the dialogue is terrible & as a whole it doesn't make much sense . The angel thing just doesn't work & the mixing of horror & crime thriller just doesn't come off to any effect . I'm trying but I cannot think of one positive aspect to this crappy film , I really can't . What more can I say ? Director Paulin was obviously working on a low budget & I'm sure the filmmakers put lots of effort into it & tried their best but that just isn't enough , I mean if the films crap it's crap right ? We're the ones who have to pay good money to sit down & watch this crap so why choose this piece of rubbish over a decent Vampire film ? The film was shot on a camcorder & it looks awful , there's no scares or atmosphere & the ' action ' scenes are as unexciting as any ever committed to film , sorry I meant video . There are a few gory scenes here , there are some intestine's ripped out , a decapitated head , some neck biting , a knife suck in someones head , various bloody gunshot wounds & a fair amount of fake blood splashed around but it looks pretty fake . There is also a baffling end sequence where someone slices a tree with a samurai sword & some liquid oozes out while some naked bird writhes around on the ground being fondled by the trees leaves & branches ( The Evil Dead ( 1982 ) anyone ? ) just before it starts to ' rain ' blood , I have no idea why though . With a supposed budget of about $6 , 000 this is really low budget stuff , I still cannot accept that as an excuse for making such a terrible film though . This is also one of those films with an extremely annoying soundtrack that at times seems louder than the dialogue & as a result drowns it out making it hard to hear what's being said . The acting is poor & the main lead ( Mr Paulin himself ) looks like a ginger haired Meatloaf . At Dawn They Sleep is awful , I'm sorry but that's the way I feel about it & the fact that it's an Indie film just doesn't cut the mustard with me & it's not an excuse as far s I'm concerned . I've had more fun visiting the dentist , not recommended .
Oh no , another awful moral drama one . . .	Quincy M . E . : A Test for the Living starts as Lt . Monahan ( Garry Walberg ) & the LAPD find the body of an eight year old boy named Stevie who had escaped from a home for the mentally retarded . Los Angeles coroner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) performs the autopsy but is puzzled to find no abnormalities in Stevie's brain that would suggest retardation , after investigating he discovers that many autistic children are simply labelled as retarded when in fact they could be taught to learn if given the chance . Outraged & seeing that the same thing might happen to seven year old Timmy Carson ( David Hollander ) Quincy sets out to save the boy from being put in a home for the retarded . . . Episode 3 from season 4 this Quincy story was directed by Ron Satlof & one has to say I really don't like these moral episodes which have no mystery elements . According to the opening credits the story for the script was by none other than Jack Klugman himself , frankly Mr . Klugman I am very disappointed as A Test for the Living is truly terrible . It has an outdated & irrelevant moral message about not pigeon holing kids & trying to give them every opportunity instead of dumping them into a home for the retarded . When this episode finished I sat that & felt somewhat hollow , I mean sure Quincy proved Timmy was autistic rather than just retarded but isn't that like saying someone who has had both their feet cut off luckier than someone who has had both their hands cut off in the sense both alternatives are pretty grim & not exactly a situation anyone would be happy to find themselves in ? It didn't do anything for me , I thought it was fifty minutes of total tedium & I just hate the dull moralistic episodes which don't have any mystery to them . Like a lot of Quincy episode this is competently made but nothing out of the ordinary . Unusually during the end credits for A Test for the Living several real life Doctors & organisations are ' thanked ' for the inspiration & technical assistance in making this episode . The acting is alright but there's a truly awful scene when Timmy undergoes some tests & it's just embarrassing to watch . A Test for the Living is the kind of Quincy that I hate , I think it's awful & don't try to change my mind since I never will . I so much more prefer the murder mystery ones .
Awful , awful , awful . All the bad reviews & comments are true !	Vampires Vs . Zombies starts with the breaking news that the unidentified disease that is spreading across America leaves the sufferer with homicidal & cannibalistic tendencies . . . Travis Fontaine ( C . S . Munro ) & his teenage daughter Jenna ( Bonny Giroux ) listen to the radio as they drive along the isolated backwoods roads to try & escape the disease when Travis runs over a guy who I assume is meant to be a zombie . Slightly further down the road he stops to help Julia ( Brinke Stevens ) & her teenage daughter Carmilla ( Maratama Carlson ) who are waving at the side of the road , at this point there is also a third teenage girl named Tessa ( Melanie Crystal ) sitting in the back of Julia's car bound & gagged . To me this situation would seem strange but Travis , like the trooper he is , takes it all in his stride & agrees to ' take ' Carmilla off Julia's hands & , well I don't know actually . So , with a complete stranger , Travis drives off leaving Julia & Tessa . Carmilla seems like a nice girl but she turns out to be a Vampire & she likes to bite people & turn them into Vampires , oh & she's partial to a bit of lesbianism too . Travis , Carmilla & Jenna continue to travel while some guy who calls himself The General ( Peter Ruginis ) who appears to be some sort of Vampire killer & probably has something to do with it all but the film is such a mess it doesn't really matter & I really don't know how to carry on this plot outline as my head hurts just thinking about it . . . Co-edited , co-executive produced , written & directed by the supremely untalented Vince D'Amato Vampires Vs . Zombies is one of the worst horror films ever & therefore one of the worst films ever period . The script by D'Amato was apparently based on a classic story entitled ' Carmilla ' by Sheridan Le Fanu ( he should sue ) & is an absolute mess , the holes in the plot & logic are so big you could drive a tank through them ! What is the disease that turns people into zombies ? Why is Carmilla a Vampire ? Who is Julia to her ? Who the hell is The General ? What does he want ? Where are Travis & Jenna going ? How can Travis run a man over & yet not have the slightest bit of human emotion over it ? What's with the mental ward at the end ? There are also some confusing & unnecessary dream sequences just to annoy the viewer even more . There are just so many things wrong with this film , the narrative doesn't make a blind bit of sense , the concept is terrible & never really explained properly plus it's incredibly boring . I have not one positive thing to say about Vampire Vs . Zombies , not one . Forget about any Vampires fighting Zombies because it just doesn't happen , tell me again why is this film called Vampires Vs . Zombies ? Director D'Amato has served up one of the most incompetent , rubbishy , badly made , poorly thought out & excruciatingly painful viewing experiences ever made . Vampires Vs . Zombies really has no redeeming qualities at all , there is not one single aspect that I can praise . The gore is really fake looking , there are some blood splats which look like red water , some really cheap staking effects & a half decent climax where the zombies feast on Carmilla's & Jenna's intestines , this fairly gory scene is probably the best part of the whole wretched film but it only lasts for a couple of minutes & in no way makes up for the other turgid 85 . The budget on Vampires Vs . Zombies must have been small , in fact did it even have a budget because most of it is set on a road in a couple of cars . This is one of the most badly made horror films it's been my misfortune to watch , the entire thing just sucks . The acting is predictably awful , & I mean awful . There isn't much else left to say , Vampires Vs . Zombies is easily one of the worst films ever made . The ( V ) next to the title on the IMDb's main page for Vampires Vs . Zoimbies indicates that it went straight to video , well that's far too good for this pile of crap as it deserves to go straight on the nearest fire .
" I am not a laboratory rat ! " The worst episode of Quincy ever .	Quincy M . E . : The Cutting Edge starts as Los Angeles coroner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) & crime scene photographer Ed ( Eddie Garrett ) are helping out after an accident at a pipe yard , they find six injured men including fork lift truck driver Kenny Kelso ( Paul Rudd ) who has lost an arm . Quincy stabilises Kenny & lets the paramedics take over , they take Kenny & his severed arm to Las Manos Medical Center where Dr . Gabriel McCracken ( Barry Newman ) runs a program called Experiment Hope in which the finest doctor's & specialists all work together on new techniques & try to find solutions to seemingly hopeless cases like Kenny & his severed arm . . . Episode 24 from season 8 The Cutting Edge was the very last episode of Quincy , after eight seasons & 148 episodes Quincy was no more . You know generally speaking I really like Quincy as a show , with it's murder mysteries & varied range of story lines so when the show was good I loved it but especially towards the end of it's run when it was bad boy it was absolutely awful ! The Cutting Edge is probably the single worst episode of Quincy I can remember seeing , I almost feel like a traitor calling it awful but that's honestly the way I felt about it & since it was the very last episode one would have thought Quincy & the regular supporting cast would have had a decent send off but no apart from Quincy appearing in the opening sequence to attend the accident scene , going to visit Dr . McCracken for a couple of minutes about twenty minutes in & a further two or three minutes at the very end he's barely in it while none of the regular support cast are in at all , not Sam , not Asten , not Danny or Lt . Monahan or Brill . Unbelievable , I actually thought I was watching McCracken M . D . rather than Quincy M . E . ! I didn't know while watching it but I've since learned that this was actually a pilot for a planned series called The Cutting Edge with Barry Newman as McCracken tackling serious medical issues , or that's probably how it would have played but luckily the series never got made . You can see that McCracken is given lots of background as his family troubles are pointed out as is his relationship with the hospital administrator as well as several other colleagues who are also all fleshed out more than one would expect from a single one off 50 minutes Quincy episode . A real wasted opportunity to give Quincy a great final episode & a good farewell . The basic story isn't even any good , there's no murder , there's no mystery , there's no laboratory work at all & it's just a terrible piece of drama that doesn't deserve to be called Quincy . While watching The Cutting edge I was becoming increasingly concerned about Kenny Kelso , KK to his mates , I mean he started the day off minding his own business going about his job only to have a stack of large metal piping collapse on top of him severing his arm , then he has to undergo hours in the operating theatre undergoing surgery to reattach it , then he almost dies from a subdural haematoma for which the doctor's have to revive him & then bore a hole in his skull with a drill to drain the excess blood & if that wasn't enough he loses the ability to use his one remaining good arm all in a day ! Wow , talk about bad luck . I bet KK wishes he had just stayed in bed that morning . The Cutting Edge is the single worst Quincy episode ever , in fact I'd struggle to even call it a Quincy episode since he's only in for about five minutes & doesn't do anything . It's even more of a shame since it was the very last Quincy episode so no-one got a proper send off & you know what , I just hated it , the story , the character's & everything about it & I'm glad they never made the proposed series . Anyway , one final thought from me , goodbye Quincy & thanks for all the great episodes & it's unfortunate The Cutting Edge wasn't one of them .
Terrible purely because of the awful twist ending .	Breaking Dawn starts in a Californian college as Professor Simon ( associate producer Joe Morton ) tells his students that they have to perform an intensive six week study of a mental patient in Cape State Hospital as a crucial part of their education , fail & they will never become qualified Doctors . A bright , young , attractive & intelligent student named Eve ( Kelly Overton ) is given a particularly difficult patient to study . His name is Don Wake ( James Haven ) & is a convicted killer , he was found covered in blood besides the dead body of a woman ( Diane Verona ) & her young daughter ( Jenette McCurdy ) . At first Don won't even look at Eve much less talk to her , but like the trooper she is Eve persists in trying to figure him out . Eventually Don begins to talk but what he says frightens Eve , he says that someone is watching her & mentions the name Malachay . Eve then begins to see a dark shadowy figure at her every turn , as Don churns out the conspiracy theories & bizarre statements Eve slowly begins to lose her mind as the line between fantasy & reality becomes more & more blurred . Is there something more to the supposed nonsense that Don talks other than being the insane ravings of a psychiatric patient . . . ? Written & directed by Mark Edwin Robinson I have nothing but negative feelings towards Breaking Dawn . Now , we all like a good twist ending , the sort of ending which catches us unawares , surprises us , works well with the rest of the film & stays in our memory like the cool twist endings to The Sixth Sense ( 1999 ) & Fight Club ( 1999 ) to name just two good examples & to a lesser extent the endings to films such as Scream ( 1996 ) where the identity of the killer comes a nice surprise & isn't that obvious . Then , of course , there are films whose endings spoil everything that has gone before & as an example lets take , oh I don't know lets say Breaking Dawn because I have never seen such an awful ending to a film , never . Breaking Dawn starts out as a decent psychological horror thriller with spooky things starting to happen to Eve , it's not the most action packed film ever by any stretch of the imagination but it holds ones interest , it's not the most absorbing film ever either but it is more than watchable & it's not that bad a film until the twist ending , I have to keep mentioning it because everything else up to that point ( which was OK to be fair to it ) suddenly becomes irrelevant . I am sure there are people out there who think they have this muddled mess of an ending figured out down to the last detail , all I can say is that no one will be able to explain this thing in a satisfactory way to me & as far as I'm concerned it doesn't make a bit of sense & never will . Breaking Dawn is crap & it's a waste of time watching it to be rewarded with the lamest ending in film history , it's as simple & straight forward as that . Director Robinson doesn't half make a mess of what could have been a decent thriller , maybe he thought what he had shot would play out OK or maybe it was ruined in the editing room but I'd imagine it was more likely down to a rubbish script as he tries to tie all the absurdities together within the space of a few muddled minutes & give us all a happier than happy final shot . He builds the tension quite well during the first 80 odd minutes but it's all for nought at the end of the day . Technically Breaking Dawn is fine & it is generally well made throughout . The acting is pretty good , Overton is nice & easy on the eyes & puts in a decent performance . Was it just me or did the guy who played Don look like John Morghen star of such Italian sleaze classics as Cannibal Apocalypse ( 1980 ) , City of the Living Dead ( 1980 ) , The House on the Edge of the Park ( 1980 ) , Cannibal Ferox ( 1981 ) , Stagefright ( 1987 ) & The Church ( 1989 ) ? OK , maybe it was just me . . . Breaking Dawn is rubbish , I hated it all because of the final few minutes . Don't get me wrong it wasn't exactly getting me excited up to that point but it was OK . Definitely one to avoid as far as I'm concerned although it seems to have it's fair share of positive comments on the IMDb . . .
" OK , OK as far as I'm concerned you can eat sht . " Dracula Sucks sucks .	Dracula Sucks starts with the arrival of Richard Renfield ( Richard Bulik ) & his Aunt Irene ( Patricia Manning ) at a sanatorium owned & run by Dr . Arthur Seward ( John Leslie ) & his sister Dr . Sybil Seward ( Kay Parker ) . It appears that Renfield has been suffering from nightmares & sleepless nights so his Aunt has asked the Seward's for help . That night Renfield hears voices which lead him to a nearby Abbey where Count Dracula ( Jamie Gillis ) bites him & turns him into his servant . The next day Dr . Seward's friend Dr . Van Helsing ( Reggie Nalder as Detlef van Berg ) arrives at the sanatorium to assist him in his research . It's not long before Dracula has sunk his fangs into a woman named Lucy Webster ( Serena ) who happens to be a friend of Dracula's ultimate prize Mina ( Annette Haven ) who Dracula wants to be his bride by mixing his semen with her blood , but not if Mina's fiancé Jonathan Harker ( Paul Thomas ) has anything to do with it . . . Co-written & directed by Phillip Marshak Dracula Sucks , quite simply , sucks . At this point I should say that I am aware there are two distinct versions available both soft-core & hardcore variants , I will be commenting on the soft-core version called Dracula Sucks that ran for just over 87 minutes & not the hardcore version which is apparently known as Dracula's Bride . The script by Marshak & Daryl Marshak ( Brother's maybe ? ) tries to mix sex & horror with the odd snippet of comedy but unfortunately with little success , no I'll rephrase that , with no success whatsoever . As Dracula Sucks tires to please both those viewers looking for horror & those looking for sex it fails to please either , the film is really slow & a bit of a chore to sit through . The character's are rubbish & just naming them Dracula , Van Helsing & Harker doesn't mean you automatically have a Dracula film . I pretty much hate this film , it has no horror elements apart from a few shots in Dracula's cobweb strewn tomb & a few lame Vampire attacks . The sex is also disappointing with them few & far between & in this version only last for a couple of minutes each if that & you certainly won't be able to masturbate over anything in this unless your really quick . . . Dracula Sucks includes an unnecessary , unpleasant & gratuitous rape , a bit of incest & a scene where a man has sex with a female Vampire while she is still supposedly asleep . As far as blood & gore goes there is one stake through the heart , a couple of Vampire bites including Count Dracula himself biting naked breasts but it's far less exciting & exploitative than it sounds . Dracula Sucks also attempts to be funny on occasion with some awful one-liner type dialogue driven jokes , it's a pretty safe bet no one will be rolling around on the floor in a fit of laughter . The entire film takes place in a castle of some sort & the surroundings look OK but overall Dracula Sucks is as cheap & nasty as it's pornography roots would suggest . The cinematography is bland , the music forgettable & the direction non-existent . The acting is also awful & Gillis is surely one of the worst on screen Dracula's ever . Personally I don't particularly like pornography anyway & when it turns a cinematic legend like Dracula into a cheap , worthless piece of crap such as this I can't recommend it at all to those looking for either horror or sex . I would imagine the hardcore version provides more in the way of sexual fulfilment but since I haven't seen that & this soft-core version is probably much more widely available I would have to say to any potential viewer to seriously think twice before wasting your time & money on this . Either go for a proper porno or a proper horror & not some messed up patchwork attempt at both but succeeds at neither .
" I didn't think they have listings for exorcists in the yellow pages . " Awful .	Inheritance tells the tale of sinister old lady Lillian Baker ( Marjorie Nelson ) & her kind hearted , good natured carer Abigail Nielsen ( Jen Taylor ) . Abigail feels sorry for Lillian & does her best to keep her happy , however one fateful night Lillian passes away in her sleep . Abigail is obviously upset & attends Lillian's funeral to say her goodbyes , it soon comes to light that Lillian has left Abigail her large house & it's entire contents a situation which Lillian's daughter Joan ( Kathryn Mesney-Hetter ) is unhappy with . The reason for Lillian's generosity becomes clear as her spirit starts to possess Abigail & take complete control of her body . . . Edited , co-written , co-produced & directed by Kris Kristensen all the negative reviews & comments about Inheritance are true as far as I'm concerned . There is one thing I must say at this point , on the IMDb ' User Rating ' page for Inheritance , at the time of writing , it has 17 ' 10 ' votes out of a total of 74 which just doesn't seem right to me . There is no way on Earth that Inheritance should have almost twice as many ' 10 ' votes as any other , I mean this film is just so bad it's untrue & those votes have to be fake , they just have to be otherwise I will lose all faith in humanity & question my entire existence on this planet . Now , what can I say about Inheritance ? Well nothing particularly good that's for sure . Basically the whole thing is terrible , the story is very predictable , it has very few character's & no subplots to alleviate the tedium . This might have made a decent 25 odd minute Tales from the Crypt ( 1989 - 1996 ) episode because at almost 90 minutes this is tedium incarnate . Director Kristensen films on what looks like a camcorder & has that cheap & nasty look to it . This has all the grace & visual flair of a soap opera but none of the style . . . The climax is hilariously bad as Kristensen tries to make three old ladies in their 80's or 90's look threatening & menacing ! There is no tension , atmosphere or scares . There is no blood or gore & one tame sex scene . Technically this has to be one of the most low-budget films ever , nothing happens & it all take space in one house with three basic actors . On a completely unrelated note while still a blonde Taylor the lead actress in Inheritance looks like a girl I know , she ended up crushing chocolates I brought for her under her high heeled shoes & gave me a good kick in the privates but that's another story . . . Inheritance is awful , there really isn't much else to say & I can't really think of one positive thing to say about it . If you are unlucky enough to rent it out just don't say you weren't warned . . .
I have a real intense dislike for this film .	Bloody Birthday opens to a shot of Meadowvale General Hospital . There three babies are being born at precisely the same time during a total eclipse . A caption informs us that it is now ' Meadowvale , California June 1 , 1980 ' . Two teenage lovers , Duke Benson ( Ben Marley ) and Annie Smith ( Erica Hope ) are getting down to business in an open grave . They hear noises and Duke investigates . Both Duke and Annie are murdered . Sheriff Jim Brody ( Bert Kramer ) is baffled and only has the handle of a child's skipping rope that Annie was holding , as a clue . Unfortunately before Sheriff Brody can solve the case his youngest daughter Debbie ( Elizabeth Hoy ) and two of her friends Curtis Taylor ( Billy Jayne as Billy Jacoby ) and Steven Seton ( Andy Freeman ) murder him . Just as they are finishing Sheriff Brody off another young boy from their class named Timmy Russel ( K . C . Martel ) turns up , the three killers are unaware of how much he saw . Soon after the incident Timmy plays with Steven and Curtis in a junkyard . Curtis locks Timmy into an old locker . Timmy manages to escape and tell his sister Joyce ( Lori Lethin ) , but she doesn't believe him at first . The three children carry on their murder spree . Their strict teacher Miss Davis ( Susan Strasberg ) a lovemaking couple ( John Avery and Sylvia Wright ) in a van and Debbie's older sister Beverly ( Julie Brown ) are among their victims . Joyce begins to have her suspicions about Debbie , Curtis and Steven which makes her and Timmy a target for the evil trio . Will they be able to convince the authorities that these three innocent looking 10 year olds are really soulless killers ? Co-written and directed by Ed Hunt I have an intense dislike for this film . I think it's absolutely awful and doesn't have a single enjoyable aspect to it's 83 minute running time . The script by Hunt and Barry Pearson gives us no explanation for the child killers motives beyond the solar eclipse that blocks out Saturn and therefore for some bizarre astrological reason these three children don't have any conscience , so these are the only children ever born during a total eclipse ? If that is true why do they wait until just before their tenth birthday's before starting their killing spree ? I guess it just suddenly kicks in , right ? To it's credit it is reasonably well paced but I still found it incredibly boring and tedious to sit through . The film as a whole is very unexciting and predictable , the children are revealed as the killers within the first 10 minutes and as I've mentioned next to no motive is given . It's very silly at times , too . Check out the scene where Debbie stops Steven by throwing a bowl of water over him ! The Sheriff's death is put down to him falling down some steps , yeah right the injuries suffered from that type of accident aren't going to be the same as if your beaten to death with a baseball bat like he was in reality , any competent Doctor or Pathologist would have spotted that within 5 seconds . There isn't a single drop of blood spilt in the entire film and all of the lame killings are dull and unimaginative . There is some out-of-place looking nudity as Debbie charges 25c to let boys peek through a hole while her sister Beverly strips . There is an early scene just after the 5 minute mark when Joyce walks from the kitchen to the living room and the boom mike is clearly visible at the top of the screen , not even a little bit of it the whole damn thing . The general incompetence continues throughout the film . The whole production is bland and instantly forgettable . The acting is poor throughout , those three kids are very annoying and got on my nerves right from the start and made sitting through this film even more of a chore , especially Curtis in his geeky over-sized glasses . I just hate this film really , simple as that . I can't think of a single good thing to say about it . Definitely one to avoid .
" Lets get some bottles & make Molotov cocktails like in school . " One of the worst films ever made & it's no surprise that Jesus Franco is the man behind it !	La Tumba de los Muertos Vivientes , or Oasis of the Zombies as it's more commonly known among English speaking audiences although I like the IMDb listed alternate title of Bloodsucking Nazi Zombies but it's still a lousy film under any title , starts with two young women arriving at a desert oasis in the middle of Africa for a walk or something like that , logic isn't La Tumba de los Muertos Viventes strong point . As they walk around the date trees & discover various World War II relics in remarkably good condition they are attacked by something hideous . . . Treasure hunters Kurt ( Henri Lambert ) & his partner Ingrid pull up outside a house belonging to Captain Blabert ( Javier Maizer ) who knows where 6 million in gold is hidden out in the desert . Blabert tells Kurt that the gold is in an oasis plus where it is on a map & for his trouble is killed with a poisoned pen , that's gratitude for you . Meanwhile in London , we know it's London because Jesus shows us a shot of the Houses of Parliment & Big Ben chiming , Blabert's son Robert ( Manuel Gelin ) receives a telegram informing him that his Father is dead . Robert flies out to Africa quicker than a rat up a drain pipe & reads his Father's diary which chronicles an ambush on a German special command escort of which he was the only survivor , it also talks about the 6 million in gold they were escorting . Robert becomes greedy & with three school mates Ronald ( Eric Viellard as Eric Saint-Just ) , Ahmed ( Miguel Angel Aristu ) & a bird named Sylvia ( Caroline Audret ) set out to claim the treasure as their own . On the way they meet up with Professor Denicken ( Albino Graziani ) & his attractive assistant Erika ( France Lomay as France Jordan ) , the results of Kurt's attempts to find the gold & a whole load of rotting , flesh-eating zombies that rise from the sandy dunes of the oasis . . . Directed by Jesus ' I have no talent ' Franco as A . M . Frank on the version I saw La Tumba de los Muertos Vivientes has to be one of the very worst horror films I've ever had the misfortune to sit through & I have seen some real stinkers in my time . The script by god knows who as A . L . Mariaux on my copy is absolutely terrible . La Tumba de los Muertos Vivientes is quite simply one of the most boring films I've seen , I can't stress enough just how dull this pathetic attempt at a film is . The characters are none existent , the film features little in the way of dialogue & nothing in terms of development . The dialogue that is present sounds like it was written by a five year old , it's some of the most basic tripe I've heard . I think La Tumba de los Muertos Vivientes was written on the back of a postage stamp by a trained pigeon . While watching this lump of dung of elephant sized proportions I kept looking at my DVD timing counter & praying that it was almost finished , at only 82 minutes long La Tumba de los Muertos Vivientes actually seemed liked it went on for hours . The script has no logic , it clearly states that the zombies rise during the night & that at dawn they disappear right ? Well in that case how come the two women during the opening sequence were killed in the day ? When Blabert tells Kurt the location of the gold how does Kurt know he's telling the truth ? Kurt is very quick to kill him but what if he had been lying ? Why didn't Blabert go & find the gold for himself ? 6 million in gold sounds very tempting to me . I could go on forever with it's many problems but I really can't be bothered . Technically La Tumba de los Muertos Vivientes is awful , Franco shoots most of the climatic zombies vs . stupid annoying teenage kids battle using day-for-night which has the ( presumeably ) unwanted effect of the brightness levels of things going up , down & all over the place & one more thing Jesus there are no shadows cast at night because that takes the sun if you believe the laws of physics anyway . A special mention for the cinematography as well which is basic , very jerky & full of cheap stuttering zooms . The zombies look terrible , Franco even resorts to having a skull with one eye on a stick bobbing up & down in front of the camera . The attacks lack any gore , excitement , atmosphere or threat . These zombies are seriously lame & are a disgrace to money paying filmgoing audiences all over the world ! As one would expect the dubbing is atrocious , even worse than the usual Euro horror dub if that's possible . How much can one person hate a film ? Given La Tumba de los Muertos Vivientes just ate 82 minutes of my life up nowhere near enough I'd say . La Tumba de los Muertos Vivientes is so bad I'd walk out on it on an aeroplane . . .
Rubbishy horror / thriller / mystery type thing .	Jon Good's Wife ( simply one of the worst titles for a film ever ) , or The Red Right Hand ( another absolutely awful sounding title that means nothing & has no relevance to the film ) under which I saw it , is set in ' Salem , Massachusettes 1978 ' ( incidently the year I was born which was quite possibly the best thing to happen during those 365 days ) where five old college friends meet up for a school reunion , gay-boy fagot Roger Mather ( John Kuntz , is that surname for real ? Just say it out loud . . . ) , Martha Alden ( Kim Brockington ) , Rebecca Lawson ( Jenna Stern ) & her boyfriend Jake Stabler ( John Doe ) , Alan Hobbes ( Michael Kevin Walker ) & his wife Sandy ( Megan Rawa ) plus John Good ( Marc Ardito , why is the spelling of ' John ' different in the title ? ) & his wife Sara ( Abigail Morgan ) . From the word go there is an uneasy tension in the air & when someone mentions their ' missing ' friend Calef ( Jason Winther ) lots of unpleasant memories come flooding back . Then comes the phone calls , the mysterious nose-bleeds , hallucinations & guilt as the true horror of the events all those years ago finally comes to light . . . Produced , executive produced & directed by Kurt Gioscia who also wrote the thing & Kurt St . Thomas who gets the art direction credit too & if that wasn't enough they both act in the film as well ! Personally I thought Jon Good's Wife was awful , I mean she can't cook or anything ! Ha ha ha , only joking ! Seriously though I didn't think much of the film overall , for a start it's pretty slow going & the entire first 30 minutes is solid snooze material of the reunion consisting of lots of catching up with each other & dull character building exposition . The film never explains itself , what's with those weird nose-bleeds for god's sake , the mysterious phone calls , the almost inconsequential death of one of the group that might or might not be natural & what the hell was Sara all about ? She comes across as some nosey , sex crazed , dirty talking , shameless , bitter blackmailing know-it-all whore who apparently sleeps with just about every man she meets ! Some of the dialogue she spouts wouldn't be out of place in a porno & it just seems totally at odds with the rest of the film which plays out more like a drama than the horror / thriller it was supposedly meant to be . Then there's the ending , if there's a worse way to end a film then to just leave literally everything hanging in the air with no closure whatsoever I have yet to see it . The whole thing was very predictable as well , I mean is anyone watching this not going to know that when they all mention their friend Calef went ' missing ' there wouldn't be more to it ? Directors Gioscia & Thomas make an infuriating film , on top of the predictability & annoying climax there is a retrospective narration by Alan which I simply don't understand as he has no more or less significance than anyone else & at what point in time is he narrating from ? The reasons behind this narration is never made clear or elaborated upon . There's no tension because the whole things so by-the-numbers . Technically the film is OK but nothing special & some of the locations & clothes didn't look particularly authentic to me , this never convinced me it was taking place during the late 70's . The acting was alright & what about actor John Kuntz last name ? I suppose if his wife was standing next to him we could describe them as a couple of Kuntz , right ? ! I really didn't think much of Jon Good's Wife ( a blow up doll would have been better ! Ha ha ha ) & I'm not sure who it would appeal to . Forget about any gore , horror , violence , scares , atmosphere or excitement , in fact forget about everything that would have made this film watchable because it ain't here . Not recommended .
Terrible thriller which has the most slow motion scenes ever .	Crying Freeman starts in San Francisco as Yo Hinomura AKA the Crying Freeman ( Mark Dacascos ) who works as an assassin for the Sons of the Dragon kills Takeshi Shimazaki ( Kevin Ohtsji ) & a couple of his bodyguards ( Tong Lung & Kiyoto Matumoto ) all witnessed by vacationing painter Emu O'Hara ( Julie Condra ) but Freeman lets her live . . . Jump to Vancouver B . C . where by a complete & utter coincidence Emu & Takeshi's father Shido Shimazaki ( Mako ) live , in a sort of ' kill two birds with one stone ' situation Freeman takes out Shido in broad daylight in front of the court house & then turns his attentions to Emu who he just can't bring himself to kill so he has sex with her instead , hell it probably seemed like a good idea at the time . Back in Japan & a Yakuza bloke type guy named Ryuji Hanada ( Masaya Kato ) challenges the Sons of the Dragon & in particular Freeman as his head will make him powerful or something like that . . . This French , Canadian , Japanese & American co-production was co-written & directed by Frenchman Christophe Gans & made by a lot of people with unpronounceable names both in front & behind the camera this is , in my humble opinion , total crap . The script by Gans , Thierry Cazals & the uncredited duo of Roger Avery & Laurie Finstad-Knizhnik which takes itself extremely seriously is based on the popular Manga comic by Kazuo Koike & Ryoichi Ikegami & subsequent Japanese Anime which I have seen but unfortunately it was back in the 90's & can't remember a single thing about it other than it was better than this live-action version . For a start it's pretty slow going & repetitive along with the fact that there's a criminal lack of proper over-the-top Anime action , there are constant dull shoot outs where the Freeman can shoot & kill dozens of bad guy's who no matter how hard they try or how heavy they are in number just can't even get a shot off , I hope these Japanese mafia bosses aren't paying these guy's that much because they ain't much use ! Then there's the fact that at least some of it had to be Americanised with a couple of American cops & some of it being set in the US , the storyline is weak & is your basic inner struggle within a powerful crime organisation with someone wanting to take it over . I suppose Freeman is supposed to be some sort of anti-hero as he kills swiftly but also has some sort of moral code & predictably turns soft when the time comes to kill a piece of skirt who he fancies . It's all been done before & much better as well , from the rubbish James Bond style opening titles to the happy ending as the Freeman & his bird ride off into the sunset on a speedboat Crying Freeman is a crying shame . . . Director Gans making his full length film debut clearly doesn't know how to stage or edit an action sequence , this is really hard going actually . For a start there's absolutely no variety in the action with a constant stream of virtually identical shoot outs although there is some samurai sword play at the end which is the only reason I gave this instead of just the 1 , the violence is tame & the blood very restrained with only one blood spurt right at the end . Then there's the constant annoying use of slow motion , seriously this film has more slow motion in it than any other film I can remember seeing . In fact if all the slow motion scenes were played back at normal speed Crying Freeman would probably run over 40 minutes shorter , everything is seen in slow motion from people running & walking to people falling over to people shooting guns from drink being poured to sex scenes there isn't 5 minutes that go by without at least something being shown in slow motion . Now this is fine when it's used properly but here director Gans just does it for the hell of it or because he mistakenly thought it looked cool & would automatically make his film stylish which it most certainly doesn't . With a supposed budget of about $5 , 000 , 000 this had a much bigger budget than I thought while I was watching it , I'm not sure where all the money went as there are no big stars or particularly big action scenes either . The filmmakers obviously didn't go anywhere near Japan & it was shot entirely in Vancouver in Canada . The acting isn't up to much I'm afraid , if you like happy stories Mark Dacascos & his co-star Julie Condra actually married each other after the film in real life . Crying Freeman is what I would personally term as a total waste of 100 odd minutes , I didn't like it & have no fondness for it at all . Disappointing as far as I'm concerned , stick to the Manga & Anime instead .
Absolutely terrible film which makes no sense whatever anyone says .	Gothic is set in Geneva at the Villa Deodati where English poet Lord Byron ( Gabriel Byrne ) lives in a self imposed exile . Percy Shelley ( Julian Sands ) his lover Mary Godwin ( Miranda Richardson ) & her sister Claire ( Myriam Cyr ) all turn up wanting to spend some quality time with Byron & have some fun , Byron invites everyone in & says they are welcome . Over the course of that very night lots of strange things happen which I'm at a loss to explain & the film itself doesn't do a very good job either . . . This British production was directed by Ken Russell & is a film which almost defies logical explanation or any reasonable critique of it , I don't know what Kenneth was on when he made this but it must have been strong stuff & it's no wonder he's been relegated to appearing on Celebrity Big Brother & making home films which no-ones ever seen . The script by Stephen Volk which takes itself extremely seriously is a strange beast to say the least although one has to bear in mind that what ended up on screen maybe isn't what he actually wrote as many things can happen between writing a script & the finished product , if this finished version was representative of his script though one has to wonder how this piece of crap ever got financed & who did he think this mess of a film was going to appeal to ? Certainly not your average horror film fan that's for sure . The basic plot about the the events which lead up to Mary writing Frankenstein & Byron's doctor John Polidori ( Timothy Spall ) to write The Vampire could have been decent but it's totally lost under loads of pretentious art-house visuals which are far from impressive . As a whole Gothic is bizarre , weird & just totally out there unfortunately it's also pointless , boring , crap , rubbish , meaningless , empty , unsatisfying & what really kills it is that it provides zero entertainment value , yes it really is that bad . It's not even historically accurate , did you know it was actually Byron who visited Shelley & not the other way round as Gothic would have you believe ? Well now you do . I pretty much hated this film from start to finish . Director Russell is in total over-the-top mode here with some strange imagery , unfortunately it's not very striking & it just all comes off a weird & pointless . The whole film is quite abstract & surreal , in fact it's maybe the Salvador Dali of horror films ! Just when you think it's settling down into some sort of proper story as Claire admits that she's pregnant with Byron's child or when they hold a séance around an old skull it goes nowhere & ends back up with some more strange scenes which makes no sense . Although the visuals are strange & weird I don't think they are particularly stylishly filmed or constructed which doesn't help . The film as a whole is quite tame , the nudity isn't excessive & there's no gore or violence to speak of . Technically the film is alright , the location used was Gaddesdon Place in Hamel Hampstead in Hertfordshire which is in good old England & the house in the film just feels very empty & basic although it's obviously of the right period & looks the business . It's generally well made with decent production values throughout . This has a good cast with Byrne , Richardson , Spall & Sands but they ham it up & put in pretty bad overwrought performances . Gothic is a film which I personally hated , I'm positive it has some fans out there but most film-goers will find it an absolute mess . In fact I'd struggle to even call it a proper film it's that bad , who in their right mind actually green lit this piece of crap & how did Kenneth manage to convince anyone to finance it ?
" Look ! A door ! " Another rubbishy low budget piece of horror crap .	Death Factory starts as flashy annoying git Francis ( David Kalamus ) & his annoying girlfriend Leticia ( Rhoda Jordan ) tell their equally annoying friends Rachel ( Lisa Jay ) & her boyfriend Derek ( Jeff Ryan ) plus Louisa ( Karla Zamudio ) & the nerdy yet still very annoying Troy ( Jason Flowers ) that they are all invited to a party at his house as his parents are away for the weekend , unfortunately his parent's change their mind & they have to find an alternative venue to hold their festivities . Louisa comes up with the perfectly reasonable idea of holding the party in a disused factory that has been condemned as any sensible person would , the group are well adjusted human beings & as such have no problem in holding a party in an abandoned rundown potentially dangerous factory , I mean would you ? However their flawless plan goes awry when it turns out that the factory is inhabited by a flesh eating zombie ( Tiffany Shepis ) that wants to kill everyone it meets , sometimes it's just not your day . . . Written & directed by Brad Sykes Death Factory is crap , I'm sorry but it's as simple & straight forward as that . Why is the question I ask here , why do I keep putting myself through this much torture by continuing to watch this sort of absolute crap ? The script is terrible , for a start it's very boring , it's slow & the fist 40 odd minutes of this are almost irrelevant while for some reason it takes itself extremely seriously . Add to that the fact that there were many plot holes that bugged me throughout the entire film , for a start the most annoying one was that for some inexplicable reason these idiotic teens couldn't just walk out of the factory once the realised there was a killer running around , I mean why couldn't they just walk out of the door they entered the place through ? Is that such a hard notion to think of & execute ? Thre is no reason at all for them to have stayed in the factory once things went bad , none whatsoever & I don't buy the ' maybe the got lost ' idea either ( did these kids have the memory capacity of a goldfish ? ) so I just kept thinking to myself ' get the hell out of there you annoying idiots ' , they never did though . I wasn't sure about the killer either , I must admit she looked pretty cool at times but where did the metal teeth come from & the long metal A Nightmare on Elm Street ( 1984 ) rip-off sharp nails attached to her fingers ? The script is as unambitious & threadbare as they come & is merely an excuse to kill a bunch of annoyingly clichéd teens off & nothing more , not much effort was put into it & it shows as the result is a poor low budget straight-to-video horror film of the worst kind that has zero entrainment value beyond seeing how the killer dispatches her victims . Overall I'd say this is one to avoid . . . Director Sykes seems to specialise in this sort of low budget straight-to-video horror crap & if the rest of his output sucks as bad as this I hope I never see another one of his films . The character's are awful as is the dialogue , in fact you could turn the sound off Death Factory & still easily understand what's going on it's so simplistic & predictable . Just to add insult to injury there are meant to be a couple of ' twist ' endings too including one of the group being a traitor , wow guys I didn't see that coming , & another ' shocking twist ' that reveals , wait for it , that the killer in fact isn't dead ! Damn what a surprise , what an original ' no-ones ever thought of that before ' twist ! Does that mean that there's going to be a sequel ? I'm shuddering at the mere thought . . . There's no atmosphere , the entire film looks cheap & unappealing , there's no scares or tension & even the gore is disappointing . Almost of the kills are exactly the same , killer grabs victim , slashes them with Freddy Kruger rip-off razor nails & bites their neck , these scenes feature lots of blood but it's of the splashed around everywhere variety rather than any explicit gore . The budget was obviously low but there are plenty of great low budget films out there so that's no excuse , is it ? For some reason the filmmakers keep shooting scenes in front of the same wall , a wall with a strange sign on it saying ' Nuclear Medicine ' , eh ? I sat there looking at it ( hell it was far more interesting than was happening on screen elsewhere ) & thinking what the hell does Nuclear Medicine mean ? ! Basically Death Factory has all the production values of your holiday video . The acting is terrible . Death Factory is total crap , I'm sorry but that's the way I see it . Sure the killer is OK but she's a blatant rip-off of Freddy Kruger from A Nigtmare on Elm Sreeet & the self mutilated zombie character played by Mindy Clarke in Return of the Living Dead III ( 1993 ) both of which are far superior to Death Factory in every way . . .
Can movies get any worse ?	This is a really obscure horror / gore film from the late seventies directed by the very untalented Jack Weis and starring the equally untalented Curt Dawson and Gwent Arment ( who ? ! ) . Basically it has some nutter running around picking up prostitutes and taking them back to his house , wherein he has built some sort of sacrificial altar . Once there he ties the girls down on a bed and cuts ' the hand that excepted the money ' the ' feet that brought you here ' and finally ' the part you use for evil ' , at this point he slices their stomach open and pulls some guts out . The rest of the running time the movie follows the detective hunting the killer and a prostitute whom he tries to use to help his investigations . There is nothing good I can say about this movie . The acting is awful even by ultra low budget standards . The photography is hideous even by ultra low budget standards . The directing is non existent , and the script , if they had one , is a waste of the paper it was printed on . Surprisingly the special make up effects are acceptable , considering the rest of the film even quite impressive . Although when the best most impressive part of a movie is when someone cuts open a womans stomach and removes her intestines you know your in for a rough 92mins . The video version I watched had really cool artwork on the cover , I should just have looked at the box for the 92mins ! Avoid at all costs .
Boring rubbish with a political message !	City of Blood starts in ' Africa 2 , 000 Years Ago ' where two native tribesman are killed , one by a decapitated head on a swinging rope ( ! ) & the other by having his head bashed in . . . Jump forward to the 80 ' & Johannesburg , South Africa where chief medical examiner Joe Hendersen ( Joe Stewardson ) has been called out by his best friend detective Max Wharton ( Ian Yule ) to yet another brutal murder of a prostitute , both Joe & Max are working as hard as they can to discover the identity of the murderer but have little to go on . That night Joe speaks to a prostitute who turns up dead the next day , now Joe can't leave it alone until he finds the killer but that's not the only problem he has as special agents Stoltz ( Gys De Villiers ) & Phillips ( Greg Latter ) put pressure on him to fraudulently sign a death certificate for an equal rights activist who was beaten to death by his interrogator's & therefore help stop a potential revolution against a government he despises . Will Joe do the moral thing or will he crumble under the pressure of a corrupt government & it's official's ? Will Joe be able to find a breakthrough in the murders & bring the killer to justice ? Who knows , who cares . . . This South African production was co-written & directed by Darrell Roodt & frankly is about as exciting as watching paint dry . The script by Roodt & Mary-Ann Lindenstadt is as much political drama as horror , in fact I would say that it's far more of a political drama than a horror which means that were're off to a bad start already . City of Blood is incredibly slow going , the story is dull & just didn't interest or engage me at all . Then there's the heavy handed political statements & the moral stance it takes , obviously shot during the 80's when apartheid was in full flow City of Blood tries to raise the issue & paints the stereotypical picture of all whites are evil & all blacks are freedom fighting outstanding members of the community , now don't get me wrong as I don't know the first thing about South African politics either then or now so I really couldn't say if it's portrayal is accurate or not . There was also the minor fact that I couldn't care less about South African politics , I know that sounds a bit of a harsh thing to say but I've got enough to worry about in my own country , it's as simple & straight forward as that so I found most of City of Blood tedious , dull , boring & irrelevant to the extreme . The serial killer issue is barely touched upon & it felt more like a sub plot just to try & keep the audience awake & give them something to grab onto in the hope that it might get better , unfortunately it never does . The story is all over the place & never really settles down while the climax just frustrates & annoys . Director Roodt likes to have long tedious random sequences of Johannesburg & the South African countryside which are far from impressive looking . There's no scares , atmosphere , tension , intrigue , excitement or drama in this damp squib of a film that never really gets off the ground . Forget about any gore apart from a decapitated head on a rope & someone with some spears stuck in their chest , there is a touch of nudity but not much . Technically City of Blood is OK at best , it's competent but at the same time it's just so bland & forgettable . The acting was alright but since the film as a whole is so lousy who cares ? City of Blood is probably marketed as a horror film with talk of serial killers & such , don't be fooled there is very little horror & a whole load of boring melodramatics that bored me to tears . Maybe there is an audience for this type of slow moving crap but it's not for me at all I'm afraid . One to avoid if your hoping for horror like me . . .
" You have to be mean if you want to make green . " Awful horror film .	How to Make a Monster starts with Faye Clayton ( producer Colleen Camp ) firing her team of software programmer's when the latest game called ' Evilution ' that they are working on receives disastrous test previews & the search is on for a new team . This is where Peter Drummond ( Steven Culp ) , Bug ( Jason Marsden ) , Hardcore ( Tyler Mane ) & the obligatory black guy Sol ( Karim prince ) step in & take over . The brief is they need to turn ' Evilution ' into a really scary game in one month , if they succeed they will earn a $1 million bonus , Clayton also gives them intern Laura Wheeler ( Clea DuVall ) as a general dogsbody . How to Make a Monster then cuts to ' Three Weeks Later ' as the game nears completion , Hardcore has designed the weapons & monsters , Bug has developed the music & sound effects & Sol has programed a new form of artificial intelligence while Peter does what bosses do . One night a lightning strike causes a power overload which in turn makes a motion capture suit come to life & start acting out ' Evilution ' as if it were real . Peter , Laura , Sol , Bug & Hardcore all become targets of the killer game & it's robotic suit . . . Written & directed by George Huang I personally thought How to Make a Monster was a very poor attempt at horror . The script has no relation to the original How to Make a Monster ( 1958 ) apart form it's title , there are so many things fundamentally wrong with this film it's untrue . The whole concept sucks & Huang obviously doesn't know anything about technology as How to Make a Monster has no factual basis or notion of reality at all , motion capture suits coming to life ? How can it walk & operate before it kills Sol ? How can the mainframe computer control it with no visible wires ? Radio control , I don't think so . Only three people to program one game ? These days it takes dozens of talented programmer's to develop a good game & a hell of a lot longer than a month . I could go on , but I won't . The title How to make a Monster refers to the films hidden meaning , the moral message if you will . You see How to Make a Monster is all about people turning into monsters because of greed , jealousy & ambition . I bet Huang thought he was really clever coming up with that double meaning title . The characters are uniformly unlikable & clichéd , Sol & Bug in particular are highly irritating to endure . Technically How to Make a Monster isn't too bad considering it's TV limitations , director Huang fails to create any sort of tension or atmosphere which is what a good horror film is all about . The kills are all off screen & have no build up whatsoever , when at the end it finally looks as if we might get a decent sequence involving the monster the film keeps cutting to awful in game computer footage , maybe to save money ? It breaks up & dilutes any sort of excitement the climatic fight might had , very poor . There are a few computer game / film references , an Evil Dead video game poster keeps turning up in the background , a Tales From the Crypt pinball machine & a scene where the monster rips someones head off complete with dangling spinal cord which obviously is meant to pay homage to Mortal Kombat & it's infamous gory ' Fatalities ' . As a whole the violence is restrained with the aforementioned head & spinal cord ripping , another severed head & a cut off hand . The monster itself as it adds bits of human bodies to itself looks pretty cool but is barely used , it's past the 40 minute mark before it does anything . The acting is poor from all involved & watch out for actress Julie Strain who complains about having to go nude , again considering her other work I suppose director Huang thought this would be a funny in joke of some sort . It isn't . Overall there really isn't anything by which I can recommend How to Make a Monster & in actual fact I think it should be retitled to How to Make a Monstrosity of a Film . One to avoid .
" Vampires need blood that's not contaminated by human semen . " Worthless .	Riti , Magie Nere e Segrete Orge nel Trecento ( which translates into English as Rites , Black Magic and Secret Orgies in the Fourteenth Century apparently ) , or Black Magic Rites as it's more commonly known as along with other suggestive titles such as The Horrible Orgies of Count Dracula & The Reincarnation of Isabel , starts in the crypt of a large castle with a sacrificial offering to a Vampire / witch named Isabella ( Rita Calderoni ) ' the great mistress ' who was burned alive in the fourteenth century . An unfortunate woman is tied to a stone slab & her heart is cut out by Isabella's husband who happens to be Count Dracula ( Raoul Rossi ) himself ! But without any fangs . In a ritual of the twenty-fifth moon Isabella will be reincarnated , anyway another woman named Raquel is killed & her heart removed . Laureen ( Rita Calderoni again ) & Richard are engaged to be married & Laureens uncle Jack ( Mickey Hargitay ) has brought the castle for her , they are holding a big party & various guests fall victim to Isabella's reincarnation rites as she needs the heart & eyes of a virgin or something like that & that's as well as I can explain the ' story ' , if I've got something wrong don't bother letting me know as I don't care . This Italian production was written & directed by Renato Polselli ( he directed under the pseudonym Ralph Brown ) & quite frankly is one of the most incoherent , bizarre , strange , baffling & worthless films I've seen in a long time . The script probably made some sort of sense as the written word on a piece of paper but in the hands of Polselli , sorry Brown it makes absolutely no sense whatsoever . I'm not exaggerating when I say I seriously doubt anyone will be able to follow this thing & make any sort of sense out of it . People do things for no apparent reason , their motivations are baffling , the story is an absolute mess that's all over the place , the character's are virtually indefinable & it's hard to keep track of who's who , the dialogue is minimal & the subtitles lead me to believe it's very basic & Polselli tries his hand at a bit of comedy with a idiot bloke who has a threesome with two women complete with comedy soundtrack & a bit where he tries to remove a hair from his mouth , I'm not sure if the hair came form the women or his terrible moustache ! There is also some weirdo hunchback guy named Greg ( ! ) ( Marcello Bonini Olas ) & references to Count Dracula & Vampires as if things weren't strange enough already . I don't even think Riti , Magie Nere e Sergrete Orge nel Trecento should be called a ' film ' & I'm sure most would agree that you need to be taking something to enjoy this , the filmmakers obviously did ! Director Polselli certainly gives the film a unique look , it has very rich colours & a cool visual style throughout but bathing people & things in bright neon lights for no reason whatsoever just adds another layer of bizarreness to the proceedings . Anyway it's pretty nice to look at . The editing is atrocious as it cuts to random scenes , things & people that seem to have nothing to do with the current situation . Even simple scenes of two people talking become highly irritating as Polselli cuts , zooms & pans all over the place . The continuity is unbelievably bad , just check the scene out when the two women are chased through the village it switches between bright daytime & the dead of night seemingly at random ! There's a bit when someone is buried & from the outside the coffin is a normal size but when the film cuts inside it's massive ! There is plenty of naked flesh on show & a couple of ripped out hearts but nothing too explicit . Technically the film alternates between very good & extremely stylish to the most poorly made atrocity I've seen , there's a bit at the end with a ' snake pit ' which has all of two rubber snakes in it ! You can see the wire / string pulling them along ! The awful rubber bats aren't any better either . The acting is , well not great but then look at what they had to work with . Basically nothing . Riti , Magie Nere e Segrete Orge nel Trecento is an absolute mess of a film , it's confusing , muddled , incoherent & worst of all it provides virtually zero entertainment value . It's certainly unique & I doubt there are too many film out there like this but that in itself is not recommendation . It has a few nice visually stylistic moments in it , a few babes & a couple of ripped out hearts , apart from that it's worthless .
Poor big budget continuation of the Highlander series .	Connor MacCleod ( Christopher Lambert ) narrates an on screen caption that goes " in the days before memory , there were the immortals . We were with you then . And we are with you now . We are driven by the endless fight to survive in a game which knows no limit of time or place , we are the seeds of legend , but our true origins are unknown . We simply are . " Fair enough mate . Another caption informs us that we are in ' New York 10 years ago ' . Two immortals , Connor and his friend Duncan MacCleod ( Adrian Paul ) both live in New York . On this particular day 10 years ago an acquaintance of Connor , Rachel Ellenstein ( Sheila Gish ) is blown to pieces when her place explodes . Connor witnesses this but is unhurt himself . The film then switches to ' The Sanctuary present day ' which is some large house somewhere . It acts as a sanctuary for immortals who want to hide themselves away for whatever reason . The film then switches to ' Glencoe Scotland 1555 ' , get used to it as the film jumps around all over the place on a regular basis , as Connor has a flashback to the time he first encountered villain Jacob Kell ( Bruce Payne ) who after Connor has finished his flashback attacks the Sanctuary with his gang of evil immortals . He lets Connor go and kills everyone else . Meanwhile Duncan has decided to try and locate Connor , but I'm not sure why he has only just started after 10 years . Within hours and a couple of plane flights to London and back to New York , a matrix style martial arts fight sequence , being impaled on a metal girder , more confusing flashbacks & coming face to face with his ex-girlfriend Kate ( Lisa Barbuscia ) who also happens to be an immortal Duncan finds Connor and Jacob Kell has found them both , in a misty graveyard no less . At this point Jacob reveals his plans to Connor and Duncan who both decide they should stop him . After yet more flashbacks , a bit of sex and lots of emotional angst , things are set up perfectly for a final showdown between MacCleod and Kell in an immortal fight to the death ( if that makes sense , this film doesn't ) . Highlander : Endgame is the fourth in the strangely successful Highlander series of films and comes after Highlander III : The Sorcerer ( 1994 ) , although this awful fourth instalment should put the final nail in the coffin of the franchise . Directed by Douglas Aarniokoski , who has a role in the film as a character named Kirk , this is one stupid , confusing and muddled up mess of a film . The script by Joel Soisson jumps about all over the place , from hundreds of years ago to the present day and from the likes of New York to Ireland within minutes . It becomes highly irritating to watch and as a result the film doesn't really seem to settle down with one focused storyline . Another major problem I had with this film is that there are no human characters in it at all . Every major character is an immortal , they just all talk nonsense and spout rubbishy & embarrassing dialogue to each other , just check out the macho posturing between Kell and MacCleod in the graveyard when they first meet for an example . This film really needed a normal human character to emote with . It's also quite slow during the middle third and quickly became annoying . The fights are few and far between and what's there isn't anything we haven't seen a hundred times before and usually better . To their credit there is some decent gore in there and their quite violent on occasion . Having said that the final fight between hero and villain is extremely underwhelming and a bit of an anti-climax . The CGI effects are poor , well terrible actually . Especially the airbrushed advertising sign on top of the skyscraper which sticks out even more now . There is a sex scene with nudity , but it's spoilt as it's inter-cut with yet another annoying flashback . Music , photography , and production design are all instantly forgettable . The acting is universally poor from everyone involved especially Lambert who simply cannot act and his various accents sound both ridiculous and insulting . Eagle eyed viewers among you will also notice that the end of the film is set in the much criticised ( in the UK anyway ) Millennium Dome . In fact this film has a lot in common with the Dome , in particular they are both massive wastes of money & aren't worthy of your time . One to avoid .
" So , we've got a naked dead girl with her bashed in jumping off a roof . " Awful awful , awful .	Soulmate sis set in the American town of Hillsdale where famous horror book author Richard Wayborn ( Tristan Rogers ) is approached by a student named Laura ( Melissa Moore ) who asks's him for his autograph having just seen him conduct at lecture at her college . Richard becomes very friendly & ask's Laura if she would like a bite to eat with him , Laura jumps at the chance & in no time at all they arrive at the local fast food restaurant drive-thru . Richard spikes Laura's coke with a deadly poison & before long Laura is deader than a dodo & her body has been possessed by Richard's dead wife's soul , they head off to a seedy motel & have sex . Unfortunately Richard needs freshly deceased bodies on a regular basis as the effect doesn't last long & next on his list of potential victims is sexy student Sara Foster ( Arabella Holzbog ) , Richard turns on the charm & invites Sara to his home where he intends to kill her but things don't go according to plan , Sara escapes & contacts the police & her boyfriend Scott ( Tyrone Power Jr . ) who just happens to be a detective . Richard & his wife Rachel decide that Sara must be silenced to protect their dark secret . . . Directed by Thunder Levin Soulmates is , in my opinion , complete crap . The script by Matt Devlen , James Hankins & Adam Winston is painfully slow & dull , it has no proper explanation for anything that's happening & why on Earth did it take three people to write it ? For a start we , the viewer that is , have virtually no idea how Rachel can jump from body to body , all we get is some vague dialogue , which amounts to two lines , about a witch doctor . What happens to her soul when she isn't in a body ? Why can't she just stay in the same body ? Why can't she search morgues for the recently deceased ? Surely that would be a bit safer than having to kill dozens of young girls ? The whole film is very linear with a few girls being killed & Sara's discovery of what's going on at which point she becomes a target . The character's are unlikable & as dull as dishwater . Soulmates takes itself far too seriously & as a dramatic piece of film-making it falls flat on it's face , there is very little horror in Soulmates & I thought it played more like a thriller . You will probably spot the so-called twist ending coming a mile off . Director Levin does nothing to distinguish Soulmates from any other piece of low budget crap , it has no style or any noteworthy attributes . Forget about any tension or excitement either & you can forget about any gore or violence as there is a brief stabbing , a broken finger , a drowning , some gunshot wounds & that's it . There is some sex & nudity though . Technically Soulmates is bland & forgettable . It reminds of a made-for-TV film which is in no way a compliment . The acting is of a pretty poor standard while porn star Julie Strain makes an appearance as does cult film director / actor Paul Bartel in the films most bizarre scene . Soulmates is pretty poor stuff from beginning to end & thankfully quite hard to get hold of , but if you do have the misfortune to get hold of a copy then all I can say is I feel sympathy for you . Definitely one to avoid .
Another zero budget shot on a camcorder horror film piece of crap .	Insecticidal is set in some female sorority house where wannabe scientist Cami ( Meghan Heffern ) has been working on a project to reactivate dormant genes in insects , not sure why but we all need a hobby I suppose . The other girls aren't too happy with Cammi & her bugs running around the place so Josi ( Rhonda Dent ) takes it upon herself to spray all of Cami's experiments with insect killer , problem sorted . Well that's what Josi thought but it turns out that by spraying the bugs with insect killer actually made them all grow bigger & make them more intelligent , again I really don't know why . Now with large killer bugs on the loose Cami & the surviving girls must find a way to escape before they become bug food . . . This Canadian made Ceature Feature was produced & directed by Jeffery Scott Lando & if you think the Sc-Fi Channel made Creature Features such as Boa vs . Python ( 2004 ) or Komodo vs . Cobra ( 2005 ) were bad then think again because Insecticidal plunders new depths . The script by Jeff O'Brien could have been quite fun , I mean the basic premise surrounding a bunch of pretty young teenage girls being killed off by a variety of large bugs is a simple one but had potential . Unfortunately the whole film is so badly plotted & made that Insecticidal makes Mega Snake ( 2007 ) look like a masterpiece . There are scenes which don't make any logical sense , for a start how did that bug get inside the pizza box & then close the lid ? There is a scene when two of the character's are attacked by a large scorpion & they hide inside the basement closing the door behind them but when we see those two girls again they are in the living room , so what happened to the scorpion & how did they get out of the basement ? There is a scene early on where we see giant slugs but they are never shown again & why does no-one in the street not notice an eight foot tall Mantis in the girls garden ? Why do the girls not try to call anyone ? I know they call the police who think they are playing a joke but do they not know any other people they could phone & ask for help ? The whole film is poorly paced , it's as dull as dishwater , it's predictable & there are many scenes that just don't work on any logical sense . Director Lando was probably working on a low budget but one has to say that Insecticidal is reasonably well filmed , I say reasonably because I don't want to make it sound like it's amazing or anything but at least it doesn't look like it was shot on a camcorder . There's no shaky photography , no quick cut editing & no post production annoying editing techniques either which is nice . However the scenes when the girls are attacked by the bugs are terrible , they are so static & it's so obvious that the girls are fighting thin air . Now I suppose I have to talk about the special effects . Firstly the bugs aren't that big , there's a scorpion for instance which is about the same size as your average dog . Then there's the CGI computer effects , surely Insecticidal has the worst CGI bug effects of any film ever made . They are simply terrible , they look like they were rendered on a really low end home PC . I don't think I would be exaggerating if I claimed that with the PC I currently have I could have animated better looking bugs . They look truly awful & wouldn't even get into a children's cartoon series . Technically the film overall is a complete mess , despite the photography looking alright the CGI computer effects as already mentioned are simply embarrassing . Filmed in British Columbia in Canada . The acting isn't particularly good although the girls are all pretty good looking which helps . Insecticidal may have a clever title but as a Creature Feature it blows , the CGI computer effect bugs are truly the worst of their kind that I have seen . The story is full of holes & predictable as well , even die hard Creature Feature fans should avoid this one .
Nothing to get excited about , rather amateurish & boring .	The Crazies is set in a small Pennsylvanian town called Evans City . The film starts with with a man having killed his wife setting fire to his house for no apparent reason . Major Ryder ( Harry Spillman ) of the United States Army and his men have arrived in Evans City after a recent plane crash . The plane crashed into a river that supplies the town's water , on-board the plane was a man made virus called Trixie . The military believe that the residents of Evans City may be infected with a disease that turns the sufferer into a crazie , people who commit random acts of violence & are generally unpleasant to be around . Major Ryder takes over the local Doctors , Dr . Brookmyer ( Will Disney ) , surgery and prepares his plan of action . His men form a perimeter around Evans City , no one gets in or out . His men are then ordered to round all the residents up and take them to the high school . Soon an even more high ranking officer Colonel Peckhem ( Lloyd Hollar ) arrives to take charge , as well as Dr . Watts ( Richard France ) who was part of the team who originally developed Trixie to try and find a cure for the disease . The military think they have the situation under control but five people have escaped their round-up , Dr . Bookmyer's nurse named Judy ( Lane Carroll ) & her fireman husband David ( Will MacMillan ) & his workmate Clank ( Harold Wayne Jones ) , Artie ( Richard Liberty ) & his daughter Kathy Bolman ( Lynn Lowry ) & Frank Winson ( Norman Chase ) most of whom are convinced that they would be better off as far from Evans City as possible . Will they make it out & are they infected ? Can Colonel Peckham keep the situation quiet , prevent the disease from spreading outside Evans City and resolve the crisis before unthinkably drastic action is taken ? Written & directed by George A . Romero I really disliked this poor excuse for a film . The script by Romero is about as dull and slow as you can imagine . The film itself is too long and just plain boring , although I did like the last 10 or 15 minutes & the downbeat ending . The Crazies also has a lot of similarities with Romero's infinitely superior Dawn of the Dead ( 1978 ) , the female lead being pregnant , a fight against inhuman faceless enemies ( all the soldiers wear gas masks ) , the lone survivors who question whether they should stay or leave & a degeneration into petty squabbling and in-fighting . All the characters are very unlikable too , both military and civilian . The fact that the acting is poor throughout doesn't help things either . The violence & gore is non-existent , there are some gunshot wounds , that's it . Overall the film is very rough on a technical level and becomes a real chore to watch . I had heard very good things about the Crazies , but I just can't see anything in it even remotely enjoyable . Maybe I was expecting too much but having Romero's name on the credits as director gave me high expectations that weren't met . Anyone familiar with Romero's other horror like Dawn of the Dead , Creepsow ( 1982 ) , Martin ( 1977 ) , Day of the Dead ( 1985 ) & expect something similar then prepare to be very disappointed . Proceed with caution .
" Don't you realise you get uglier each time you get old ? " Contender for the worst Hammer film I've seen so far . . .	Countess Dracula starts with ageing Countess Elizabeth Nodosheen ( Ingrid Pitt ) attending her late husbands funeral when a young handsome soldier by the name of Imre Toth ( Sandor Eles ) appears . Cue opening credits which play over a 1896 painting by Hungarian artist Istvan Csok , it depicts the real Countess Erzsebet Bothory , whom the character of Countess Dracula is supposedly based upon , enjoying the torture of some young women . Once both the credits & funeral are over it's off back to the Castle for the reading of the will . Later that day the Countess becomes angry with a chambermaid named Teri ( Susan Brodrick ) whom she hits causing Teri to cut herself , some of Teri's blood splashes on the Countess's cheek & when she wipes it away she discovers that underneath her skin is youthful again . Soon after the Countess kills Teri & bathes in her blood which completely regenerates her skin & gives her the appearance of a young beautiful woman . As luck would have it the Countess's twenty something daughter Ilona ( Lesley-Anne Down ) is travelling to mourn her Father's death after being in Viena since she was six years old . The Countess devises a plan where she has Ilona kidnapped & then passes her new youthful self of as Ilona . The Countess persuades her lover Captain Dobi ( Nigel Green ) the Castle steward & Julie Sentash ( Patience Collier ) her nurse to help by covering things up . At first things go well , Ilona is held captive in Janco ( Peter May ) the mute gamekeepers hut & the Countess starts to have a relationship with the young handsome Imre , but soon enough things start to go wrong as the Countess needs a continual supply of fresh blood to remain youthful & the Castle's historian Master Fabio ( Maurice Denham ) becomes suspicious as does police Captain Balogh ( Peter Jeffrey ) . As the hole the Countess has dug herself gets deeper & deeper she has to resort to extreme measures to try & hide her secret . . . Directed by Peter Sasdy I personally thought Countess Dracula is the worst Hammer horror film I've seen to date . The script by Jeremy Paul is as dull as dishwater & about as exciting , entertaining & interesting as watching paint dry . I literally fell asleep twice watching this crap , don't worry I rewound the tape & saw what I originally missed both times . The horror elements are virtually none existent , the Countess kills four girls , three of which are off screen . Other than that there is no horror in Countess Dracula at all . There's plenty of boring romance with the dullest love triangle in all of film history , this part of the script probably accounts for at least two thirds of the overall running time & as such does not leave much time or room for anything even slightly interesting . There are very few characters in Countess Dracula & the ones that are there are very unlikeable , bland & forgettable . The title Countess Dracula is also a big problem , coming from a studio like Hammer well known for it's full-blooded Gothic Dracula & Frankenstein series of films I expected fangs , blood drinking Vampires , stakes through the heart & a traditional Vampire hunter , sadly I got none of these . Instead I got 90 odd minutes of turgid romance & Ingrid Pitt's awful acting , urgh ! Forget about any blood or gore as there isn't any apart from a quick shot of a hair pin being stuck in someones neck , a few splashes of blood here & there & a pig being cut up by a kitchen hand . There is virtually no nudity either , Pitt is only nude in one brief scene towards the end . The acting is OK apart form the ever awful Pitt & it's not particularly difficult to understand why she was dubbed throughout , I don't find her in the least bit attractive either . I was surprised to not see any of the Hammer regulars like Christopher Lee or Peter Cushing in Countess Dracula , I guess even they could see that this has turkey written all over it . On the positive side the usual strong production values we've come to expect from a period piece from Hammer are here , Countess Dracula looks impressive & there are a few attempts a some style like flaming torches creating flickering light against shadow but unfortunately this is where my praise for Countess Dracula ends because even thought the sets & locations look nice the film creates zero atmosphere or tension . Overall I hate this film , it put me to sleep which is obviously a bad sign & it just bored the hell out of me . Very disappointing , for Hammer completist's & insomniacs only .
" We may have a global nightmare on our hands . " More cheap crap from Wynorski .	Vampirella starts on a distant planet called Drakulon 30 centuries ago where a race of Vampires live in harmony & feed on artificial blood , well most do because there's one named Vlad ( Roger Daltery ) who likes to drink blood straight from the source & for his crimes he is about to be sentenced when his gang , which consists of a whole three people , storm the court room & set him free by killing everyone . Vlad & his gang jump on the nearest spaceship & vacate the premises while the young & beautiful Ella ( Talisa Soto ) mourns the death of her Father ( Angus Scrimm ) who was murdered by Vlad , she swears vengeance & sets off in pursuit of them across the galaxy . Jump forward to ' Los Angeles , Present Day ' where Vlad & his gang have been for the past 30 centuries infecting & feeding on us humans , however we have a special task force known as ' Purge ' to fight the Vampire menace . Now Ella has been stuck on Mars for 30 centuries as her spaceship didn't make it to Earth but she manages to get a ride back here with a American spaceship to finally have her revenge . . . Produced & directed by the ever useless Jim Wynorski ( is there no beginning to this mans talents ? ) I thought Vampirella was total complete & utter crap from start to finish that is a real chore to sit through . The script by Gary Gerani was based on the comic book character of the same name & I have to admit that I didn't even know there were Vampirella comic books let alone actually read one so I cannot compare how this filmed adaptation compares but I think it's a safe bet to assume that the comics are far superior to this piece of crap . As a film Vampirella fails on every level & as a comic book adaptation it's about as bad as they come , the film seems to take itself quite seriously , it's incredibly stupid & boring , the character's are awful as is the dialogue although the plot where the evil Vlad wants to block out the sun so they can take control of the Earth is actually quite a neat idea but this is underused & only mentioned during the last fifteen minutes by which time it's far too late . There are so many things I dislike about this film I'd be here all day listing them . . . Director Wynorski does his usual hack job , no offence Jim but I think your the worst genre director currently working . In case anyone's wondering the footage he steals this time is from Battle From Beyond the Stars ( 1980 ) & Galaxy of Terror ( 1981 ) & it looks awful . I love the way someone shoots a computer panel once on Earth & then a satellite in space suddenly vanishes in a red flash , this is incompetent film-making at it's most tedious . The outfit Vampirella wears is is rubbish , it looks like it's made from red plastic & she even has a bird symbol on her shorts . Frankly it's embarrassing to see her run around in this pathetically cheap outfit that's far from sexy . I know this is meant to be camp but the blend is all wrong & it just come across as stupid , cheap & just plain awful . There's no blood or gore & only a couple of instances of nudity . With a supposed budget of about $1 , 000 , 000 one has to ask the question where did all the money go ? This is so cheap looking it's untrue , the special effects are terrible , the locations are rubbish , the production values are none existent & as a whole Vampirella is a just plain bad . I must admit that I'm a fan of Talisa Soto & think she's hot in films like Mortal Kombat ( 1995 ) & as a Bond girl in Licence to Kill ( 1989 ) but here even she can't save this mess even though she's the best thing about it . How on Earth they convinced Roger Daltery to appear in this crap is anyone's guess but he's awful in it anyway . Vampirella is one bad film , it doesn't work as camp or a serious attempt at bringing the comic book character to the big screen ( even though it went straight-to-video ) . I just can't see what anyone would get out of it , I just can't . Awful , leave well alone & watch a decent comic book Vampire film like Blade ( 1998 ) .
" You have a good heart , I know a lot of people who'd like that heart in their icebox . " Total crap .	They Crawl starts with a runaway bus demolishing half of Los Angeles & crashing , Detective Gina O'Bannon ( Tamara Davis ) is on the case . Glen ( Ken Lerner ) the coroner does an autopsy on the bus driver ( Jerry Kernion ) & discovers that the driver has strange electricity burns on his body & his insides were gone . O'Bannon suspects a religious cult known as the Trillion as they sacrifice victims by electricity & remove their innards , O'Bannon banks on it being more than just a coincidence & decides to pay the cult leader Tiny Frakes ( Mickey Rourke ) a visit . Meanwhile Ted Gage ( Daniel Cosgrove ) has returned home to see his family but before he gets an opportunity to see his Brother Brian ( Chase Hampton ) he dies in mysterious circumstances when his flat blows up . Again , O'Bannon is on the case & once again Glen the coroner finds the same injuries to Brian as was present on the bus driver which has to be more than coincidence . O'Bannon & Ted team up , after some investigations they uncover sinister military experiments , conspiracies , lies , murder & an egotistical madman who wants to take over Earth using radio controlled killer cockroaches ! For no other apparent reason that he can . . . Directed by John Allerdice They Crawl is one crap sci-fi horror film that wasted 90 odd minutes of my life . The script by Curtis Joseph & David Mason is so slow it's untrue , I was bored rigid throughout . The X-Files style government / military conspiracy side of things is as dull as it sounds while the horror elements are severely lacking . Until the final 10 or so minutes there are precisely three cockroach attacks , that's three attacks in 80 minutes & one of those is right at the start . The rest of the excruciating running time is devoted to O'Bannon & Ted's investigations as they uncover the conspiracy , unfortunately They Crawl is one of those films where we , the audience that is , know that there are killer cockroaches scuttling around & it takes the main character's virtually the entire film to catch up & it becomes an absolute snooze fest waiting . It was never explained to my satisfaction how the cockroaches were controlled , something about the correct frequency is mentioned vaguely but it's never really discussed & the equipment needed never shown . Another thing I'm not happy about is the use of footage from other films , during the opening sequence a bus driver is attacked & he swerves all over the place hitting other cars & it's painfully obvious that this footage came from the Swarzenegger action film Red Heat ( 1988 ) & I kept saying to myself why the hell didn't the bus driver just pull over & stop ? Because they couldn't have stolen that footage then that's why ! The bit when Brians flat explodes is taken from Rush Hour ( 1998 ) & there's a bit when a house explodes lifted from another Swarzenegger film , Last Action Hero ( 1993 ) . To add insult to injury these scenes are the best in the entire film ! The plot is a mess , it's dull , repetitive , boring & you can see the so-called twist ending coming a mile off . Director Allerdice does an OK job , the film is alright to look at & has a few neat special effects . The huge cockroach made out of ordinary cockroaches at the end looks pretty good but this is far too little far too late . There is no atmosphere to it , there's definitely no scares , shocks or surprises & the horror is secondary to the dull conspiracy . Forget about any blood or gore as there isn't any , there are a couple of wounds , a cockroach comes out of someones ear & that's it . Although if you are scared of cockroaches then They Crawl may make you feel a bit uneasy . They Crawl must have had a low budget , all the decent bits are stolen from other infinitely better films . As it is it's competent at least but that's about the best thing I can say about it . The acting sucks , what on Earth is Mickey Rourke doing in crap like this ? They Crawl is one of the worst killer bug films I've ever seen , the bugs seem to be almost totally ignored in favour of dull melodramatics & X-Files style conspiracies that went out of fashion a long time ago , unfortunately no one told the hacks who made this . There is absolutely nothing by which I could recommend this total waste of celluloid , for insomniacs & masochists only .
" You will not be punished . . . unless you really deserve it . " - that's OK then . Another bomb from Jesus ' I have no talent ' Franco .	Des Diamants Pour L'Enfer , or as the copy I saw was titled Women Behind Bars , starts on the 15th May , 1975 in a small Central American port where 3 masked bandits raid a boat named the ' Ding Hao ' owned by eccentric millionaire Rufus Hackerman to steal a load of uncut diamonds , as the three make their getaway one of them named Perry Mendoza ( Raymond Hardy ) betrays the other two & shoots them dead . Perry then heads for a small nearby town called Santos where he owns a nightclub with his mistress Shirley Fields ( Lina Romay ) , once there he discovers that the box he has stolen is empty & to add to his problems Shirley pulls a gun out & shoots him dead . Shirley then surrenders to her conscience , phones the police & admits everything . The courts go easy on Shirley because they feel it was a ' crime of passion ' & sentence her to a mere 6 years in prison . Meanwhile Milton Warren ( Roger Darton ) who works for an insurance company is investigating the theft of the diamonds which were never recovered , he feels there is a connection between the missing diamonds & Shirley . However he is not the only one who thinks Shirley might know more than she's letting on with Warden Colonel Carlo de Bries ( Ronald White ) abusing his power to try & obtain the whereabouts of the valuable diamonds & uses his bit on the side Martine ( Martine Stedil as Martine Steed ) to befriend Shirley & extract the required information out of her & if that doesn't work he might have to resort to more drastic measures . . . This French Belgium co-production according to the IMDb was supposedly photographed ( on my version the ' director of photography ' credit goes to Gerard Brissaud ) & directed by Jesus Franco ( again according to the IMDb under the pseudonym A . M . Frank but my in my version the ' directed by credit ' goes to Rick Deconnink ) & is as dull & amateurish as most of Franco's output is . The only real claim to fame that Des Diamants Pour L'Enfer has is that it was banned in Britain & placed on the ' Video Nasties ' list which probably gives it some notoriety it most certainly doesn't deserve . The script is by Marius Lesoeur ( my version says ' screenplay and adaptation by R . Marceignac ' not that these mixed up credits matter but the IMDb isn't usually wrong but they are in this case ) & is a real chore to sit through , while it actually tries to have a story it's so bland , dull & predictable that you end up wishing for Franco's trademark nudity of which there is very little in Des Diamants Pour L'Enfer . The film concentrates on the diamonds side of things & Shirley's attempts to escape more than the usual women in prison film themes like lesbianism , torture , sex , nudity & the exploitation of the female prisoners for our viewing pleasure . In fact Des Diamants Pour L'Enfer contains very little in the way of the smutty exploitation that Franco is notorious for , there are no proper sex scenes , there is not one single instance of lesbianism either , no lesbianism in a women in prison film ? The only real nudity comes from the fact that the female inmates sleep naked & without the use of blankets while the violence & torture consists of one scene where a naked female prisoner is brutally whipped & when Shirley has her genital area electrocuted , that's it just two lame torture scenes during the entire 75 minute duration , disappointing . The so-called twist ending is so obvious you can tell it's coming as soon as Shirley turns herself in within the first 5 minutes , Milton conducts his entire investigation from his hotel room to save on location expenses & he also narrates several passages which Franco just uses as a cheap way of explaining what's happening , the prison doesn't even look like a prison more of a holiday resort or large Villa & those flimsy fences wouldn't even stop my Mother from escaping . To add the the general tedium of the film & story Franco proves yet again he should be directing traffic rather than films with lots of pointless establishing shots of houses , mountains , people's faces & lingers on them for what seems like ages occasionally adding the odd jerky pan across a landscape & his usual uneven zooms in & out , all these scenes just feel like padding & add nothing to the film , yawn . There is no action to speak of & as a whole Les Diamants Pour L'Enfer is a real waste of time & film stock . The music sucks as well . This is typical Franco crap that seems to be pretty obscure & after you've had to endure it for 75 minutes you'll understand why , all I can say is be thankful that Des Diamants Pour L'Enfer is so hard to get a copy of . Total crap & the only reason I give it 2 stars instead of 1 is because I've sat through even worse films than this , unbelievable as that sounds .
" I warn you . . . it's frightening . " Very poor horror even for the 40's , why didn't Lugosi just have a hair cut & a damn good shave ?	The Ape Man starts as famed ghost hunter Agatha Brewster ( Minerva Urecal ) returns from Europe to be greeted by Dr . George Randall ( Henry Hall ) & newspaper headlines that scream ' Dr . Brewster disappears ' , the same Dr . James Brewster ( Bela Lugosi ) who just happens to be her Brother . Dr . Randall reveals that he made the story up to cover up the fact that Dr . Brewster & himself made an ' astounding discovery ' that Brewster tested upon himself & inadvertently turned himself into a half-human half-ape creature . At this point a nosey reporter named Jeff Carter ( Wallace Ford ) from the ' Globe Tribune ' ask's for an interview which Agatha says yes to but at another time . Jeff decides to pursue the story & together with his somewhat good looking photographer Billie Mason ( Louise Currie ) heads out to the Brewster house where Dr . Brewster is locked up in his secret laboratory working on trying to get what he needs to cure himself . While there Billie takes some photo's of Agatha & accidentally captures one of Brewster as an ape but is only spotted after the photo's have been developed . Jeff knows something fishy is going on & investigates further as James reveals that to completely cure himself he needs human spinal fluid to counteract the ape fluid , the only problem is he need fresh fluid from still living donors . . . Directed by William Beaudine there is very little to recommend The Ape Man as a film , in fact nothing at all really . The script by Barney A . Sarecky based on the novel They Creep in the Dark by Karl Brown is boring , dull & virtually nothing happens during it's short 67 minute duration which seems like a lot longer while your watching it . The whole film makes no sense & the central idea is just so stupid & flawed , why on earth did Brewster & Randall want to cross a human & ape in the first place ? Aren't humans above apes in the evolutionary scale ? Wouldn't a hybrid send the human race back & not forward ? I don't know maybe it's just me but The Ape Man has no logic at all & has no credibility . Perhaps this wouldn't be so bad if it didn't take itself too seriously but it does . The characters are stiff & bland which also adds to The Ape Man's problems . On a positive note the witty interplay between the mismatched Carter & Mason is quite amusing at times & stops The Ape Man from getting 1 star instead of 2 . There's no real horror in The Ape Man & Lugosi in his make-up & stooped over hunchback pose looks awful . I sat there & kept thinking why doesn't Lugosi just have a good shave because his Ape Man make-up consists of a long beard & hairy hands , that's it . Director Beaudine also throws in a terrible looking Gorilla which Lugosi uses to kill a few people , again it's hard to take these scenes seriously because wouldn't someone notice a weird looking guy with a ridiculously fake looking beard & a lumbering Gorilla following him around & not contact the relevant authorities ? Obviously not as the police proclaim that they don't have a single clue to go on . . . The acting is rotten & Lugosi is poor , the black and white cinematography is point & shoot , the editing ruins any sort of tension that could have been built up & as a whole the film is a chore to sit through . The only other thing I will say is that director Beaudine , who made an incredible 293 films before he died in 1970 aged 78 , rightly earned the nickname ' One-Shot ' due to the amount of time he would take to shoot each scene . . . The Ape Man is poverty row rubbish all the way & yes I know it was made in 1943 but that doesn't excuse the fact that it's painful to sit through . Cinema has moved on , audiences tastes & expectations have moved on while films like The Ape Man unfortunately haven't any sort of lasting appeal , merits or virtue to move on with them & stand the test of time .
" Police speculate that this bizarre crime is the work of a psychopath . " Fantastic title for a terrible zero-budget horror film .	Flesh Feast starts at Miami Airport , ace reporter Dan Carter ( Harry Kerwin , he is also credited as production designer ) phones his mate Ed Casey ( Phil Philbin ) to let him know that he has just returned from South America where he has been investigating Carl Schuman ( Doug Foster ) & that he was onto a big story but while still talking on the phone he is stabbed in the back & killed . Schuman meets Dr . Elaine Frederick ( Veronica Lake , she also executive produced ) who has recently been released from a mental institution , together they discuss their grisly plans . The news of Cater's death has reached Casey & he decides to take the story up himself & do some investigating , well actually he gets his secretary Viginia Day ( Marth Mischon ) to do most of the investigating & just report back to him , lazy bugger . Virginia informs Casey that they have someone on the inside named Kristine ( Heather Hughes ) since Dr . Frederick rents her spare rooms out to nurses , Kristine reports back to Casey about Schuman & Dr . Frederick's grotesque youth restoration experiments involving human flesh & specially cultivated maggots . . . Co written , co-produced & directed by Brad F . Grinter Flesh Feast is a pretty poor film on all accounts . First lets start with the script by Grinter & Thomas Casey who was also responsible for the cinematography ( you get the feeling that most of the cast & crew had more than one job ) , basically it's terrible . The character's are one dimensional idiots & have no personality , I didn't like anyone in this film . For what it's worth I quite like some of the ideas here , the flesh-eating maggots , the basement laboratory , stealing bodies from a hospital & that unforgettable ' twist ' ending that's almost worth sitting through the rest of the film for on it's own . Unfortunately the dialogue is so badly written , stiff & unnatural sounding it's untrue , I mean there is one scene in which a nurse says that they " won't let us out of the house " which is fine except for the fact that she is speaking OUTSIDE in the garden to someone . No thought has been put into the story as no explanation is ever given for why flesh-eating maggots are able to restore youth , in fact at one point near the end when questioned about this very thing Dr . Frederick claims there is no time to explain at that point which to me sounds like the people who wrote this didn't have a clue either ! Even at an extremely short 68 minutes long Flesh Feast is very slow & dull , the poor editing doesn't help with scenes & shots lasting for far too long , for example there is a scene in which an Ambulance pulls up outside a Hospital , drives up to the doors , the guy gets out , he walks to the back doors & opens them etc . etc . did we really need to see every single detail ? There is also another sequence in which Dr . Frederick enters room & puts some gloves on , then she takes them off walks into the opposite room & puts another pair on ! I personally think that Grinter probably didn't shoot enough material so he stretches every scene out as much as he can to make the run time up . I do like that bizarre ending though , I really do . Technically Flesh feast is complete crap , I'm not sure what the budget was on this but it must have been small , very small . Just about the entire film takes place in one house , Dr . Frederick's laboratory consists of a table , some plastic beakers & test tubes , some ancient looking electronic medical equipment & a strange screen with funny colours on it ( don't ask ) . The cinematography is poor , the music sucks & the entire film looks dubbed , badly dubbed too . The exploitation elements are also disappointing , there are a few maggot shots but they don't actually do anything other than wriggle a bit , there is a brief scene where a dead body has it's leg sawn off & a OK looking dismembered corpse & limbs hanging on hooks . The acting is awful from everyone concerned , & I mean really bad which makes the rubbishy dialogue even worse . Do yourself a favour & avoid Flesh Feast , yes there are one or two unintentionally funny moments & that ending is , well unique to say the least but for the most part this is real amateur film-making that quickly becomes painful to watch . I doubt most people will make it through this is one sitting , I can tolerate just about anything but even I considered switching it off . Definitely one to avoid , you'll be pleased you did & if you really have to see it don't say you weren't warned !
Another terrible Film to Keep You Awake , or rather send you to sleep . . .	Películas Para no Dormir : Adivina Quién Soy is set in Spain where a nurse named Angela ( Goya Toledo ) lives in an apartment with her young daughter Estrella ( Nerea Inchausti ) . Together they manage but Estrella sometimes gets lonely & has no friends , except for the imaginary friends from all the horror films she watches including the chainsaw wielding Leatherface & a Vampire ( Eduardo Farelo ) . However it seems that her new Vampire friend may not be as imaginary after all . . . Known to English speaking audiences as A Real Friend this was one of the six Spanish made-for-telly Films to Keep You Awake & so far out of the four I have seen I have only liked one , as far as Películas Para no Dormir : Adivina Quién Soy goes I thought it was simply terrible in every regard . The script by Jorge Arenillas & director Enrique Urbizu is a total mess from start to finish & feels like a cheap unimaginative Pan's Labyrinth ( 2006 ) rip-off . It's almost impossible to convey just how much I disliked Películas Para no Dormir : Adivina Quién Soy without giving away the so clichéd it's untrue twist ending which is one of those horrible ' get out of jail ' type endings for filmmakers so every stupid , nonsense & downright tedious thing that comes before it is left pointless & irrelevant . I was going into this comment about to list all the plot holes , contradiction's , aspects that don't work & general sloppiness but that awful , awful twist ending really does render the whole film pointless & in a frustrating beyond conventional criticism sort of way . At only just over seventy minutes Películas Para no Dormir : Adivina Quién Soy is as boring as hell , there's so many scenes of people watching other people or acting suspiciously to raise the mystery & intrigue levels but when the ending is such a cop out as it is what's the point ? There isn't one , that's what . Director Urbizu turns in a decent looking flick , there's not really much else to say about it . Like most of the other Films to Keep You Awake Películas Para no Dormir : Adivina Quielíen Soy isn't scary in the slightest , it doesn't even try to be really & the horror element is more of an afterthought . Any resemblance Películas Para no Dormir : Adivina Quién Soy has to an actual horror film is purely coincidental . If there's anyone out there who dislikes The Texas Chainsaw Massacre ( 2003 ) remake check out the few scenes in this which are supposed to be from The Texas Chainsaw Massacre ( 1974 ) & realise just how bad it could have been ! There are also some bizarre images which I imagine were meant to be subliminal , from a single large ' ! ' on a huge bus shelter poster to a weird balloon carrying guy who turns up on a couple of occasions I really have no idea what the intention of the filmmakers was . Filmed in Barcelone in Spain the production values are reasonable if unspectacular . There are no special effects to speak of & a very limited cast . The acting seems alright , shot in Spanish the subtitles are clear enough but that guy at the end speaks quite fast so the subtitles disappear very quickly & you will have to be quick to read them . Personally I am not a fan of subtitled films simply because they are a huge distraction . Películas Para no Dormir : Adivina Quién Soy is another useless Film to Keep You Awake that as far as I am concerned is more likely to send you to sleep . The twist ending is just awful & really does render the rest of the film utterly pointless & redundant .
" I'm going to make those zombies regret the day they died . " For my money this is absolutely terrible .	Películas Para no Dormir : Cuento de Navidad is set in a small Spanish town during Christmas 1985 . Five young friends named Koldo ( Christian Casas ) , Peti ( Roge Babia ) , Tito ( Paul Poch ) , Eugenio ( Daniel Casadellà ) & Moni ( Ivana Baquero ) find a woman dressed as Santa Claus stuck in a large hole in the local woods they play in , they quickly discover that her name is Rebeca ( Maru Valdivielso ) & she is wanted by the police for a bank robbery . The greedy little git's decide to keep her trapped down the hole until she tells them what she did with the money she stole so they can steel it from her . Straving & badly injured Rebeca seemingly has no choice to tell them . . . Known under the title Films to Keep You Awake : The Christmas Tale to English speaking audiences this Spanish production was directed by Paco Plaza & is part of the six film Films to Keep You Awake series of made-for-Spanish telly horror films . The script by Luis Berdejo starts off as a fairly simple thriller with the twelve year old kids keeping Rebeca down a hole in the woods so they can get the money she stole , this aspect of the film is alright but far from brilliant . Then something right out of the very worst 80's horror film happens , two of the kids who like watching horror films bizarrely conduct a Voodoo ritual for no apparent reason they saw in a film they watched called Zombie Invasion which brings Rebeca back from the dead when she dies down the hole . Right , well isn't that quite the most stupid thing you have ever heard ? Why on Earth did they reenact the Voodoo ritual ? Why did it even work ? Then for the last twenty odd minutes Películas Para no Dormir : Cuento de Navidad becomes a slasher film as a reanimated back from the dead zombie Rebeca stalks the annoying kids with an axe . Unfortunately imagine the very worst teen slasher film from the 80's & then triple it , Películas Para no Dormir : Cuento de Navidad has no nudity , no deaths , no gore , no blood , no mystery surrounding the stalkers identity & it's as lifeless a twenty minutes of predictable slasher film nonsense as I have ever seen . The film also raises the unpalatable notion that watching horror films causes people to turn bad since the two most evil , sadistic & nasty of the kids are the two that watched the zombie film , talk about alienating your audience ! Then there are a few plot holes like how did Rebeca get out of the hole at the end ? Why was there a big hole in the woods anyway & why did Rebeca fall down it ? Couldn't she have just like walked around it ? It wasn't exactly inconspicuous . . . Director Plaza does alright but I never got the feeling it was Christmas , there are no decorations or anything like that & apart from Rebeca being dressed in a Santa Claus outfit nothing relates to it being Christmas at all . Plaza also takes the odd decision to not properly show any of the adults faces , the cops & the kids parents are all framed so as to have their heads either obscured by an object or cut off the top of the frame . Strange & there's no real reason for it as far as I could tell . The only bit of gore is when someone's head is impaled on a metal spike . Apart from some really lame stalk ' n ' slash moments at the end there's nothing in Películas Para no Dormir : Cuento de Navidad to indicate that it is even a horror film . There's certainly nothing scary here & there's no sort of atmosphere . Yechnically the film is alright , apparently shot in Barcelona in Spain . It's reasonably well made & put together . Shot in Spanish the film is subtitled , some of the subtitles don't stay on screen for long though so you will have to be quick . The acting seems OK but as someone who doesn't speak Spanish it's hard to tell . Películas Para no Dormir : Cuento de Navidad is another entry in the Films to Keep You Awake series that for me is far more likely to send you to sleep . It really doesn't make any sense , it has lots of holes ( besides the one Rebeca falls in ) & there's nothing new or original or horrific about it .
Just about as bad as they come folks . . .	Demon Hunter is set in modern day Los Angeles where half demon half man Jake Greyman ( Sean Patrick Flanery ) has an ugly job , he works for the Catholic church as a demon hunter who uses his powers to rid the streets of various unpleasant demons . His latest mission is a young girl & ex-prostitute named Maria ( Lea Moreno Young ) who happens to be pregnant with evil Vampire demon thing Asmodeus ' ( Billy Drago ) baby , Jake takes care of her in his own unique way . Reporting back to his boss Cardinal White ( William Bassett ) it seems this isn't an isolated incident & Asmodeus wants to spread his ' seed ' throughout the world beginning with impregnating some Los Angeles prostitutes , hey it's a start isn't it ? However Asmodeus hasn't figured on demon killer Jake & his partner Sister Sarah Ryan ( Colleen Porch ) who are out to find him & stop him . . . Directed by Scott Ziehl there simply isn't any nice way by which I can describe Demon Hunter so I won't even try , it is complete total & utter crap & it's as simple & straight forward as that . I'm not sure quite who the script by Mitch Gould is aimed at or what sort of film this is supposed to be , large portions of this lame film is taken up with really bad philosophical dialogue between Jake & his new partner Sister Sarah . You see when it comes down to it Demon Hunter is basically a mismatched partner film , you know what I mean a sort of good cop bad cop scenario , in fact I kept thinking of Lethal Weapon ( 1987 ) as Jake is obviously the tough uncompromising one while Sister Sarah is the moralistic one & by the end of the film he's lightened up a bit & she has no problem shooting people . Far too much screen time is given to this really badly written relationship & the two cardboard cutout character's involved in it , listen guys this isn't rocket science here as all we , the viewer that is , want to see is lots of fights , some nudity , some good looking chicks in leather outfits & some decent horror . To add to Demon Hunter's problems it's incredibly slow , there is one fight during the opening sequence but then you have to wait until the film reaches the 40 minute mark before the next & then after that there isn't another fight until the end . There's no horror or exploitation worth mentioning & quite how the filmmakers managed to screw a half decent Blade ( 1998 ) type idea up this badly is beyond me . Director Ziehl does a reasonable job actually , it's got some nice photography & the odd stylish scene . Unfortunately the film is still awful , the action scenes are poor ( see Blade to see how it's done properly ) , there's no gore ( again see Blade to see how it's done ) , the special effects are poor ( see Blade to see how it's done properly ) , the main villain is terrible is neither scary nor menacing & doesn't do a thing except spout a load of nonsense ( see Blade to see how it's done properly ) although on a positive note his female sidekick looks quite foxy . In terms of gore there is one scene where someone gets a stake through their chest & there's one dead body & that's it . With a supposed budget of about $1 , 000 , 000 I suppose the poor effects & lacklustre action scenes can be blamed on a low budget but that still doesn't excuse the film for being so dull , boring & downright awful . The acting isn't up to much although it's nice to see Billy Drago in something even if having him in a The Matrix ( 1999 ) style kung-fu fight is stretching it a bit . Is it just me or is Porch a dead ringer for Angelina Jolie ? Demon Hunter is a low budget piece of action / horror Blade rip-off crap that lacks any action or horror , not a film to get excited about . One to avoid , just watch Blade again instead you'll be glad you did .
" Those eyes . . . those horrible eyes ! " Almost unwatchable 50's sci-fi rubbish .	Killers from Space starts as scientist Dr . Doug Martin ( Peter Graves ) is monitoring the aftermath of an atomic bomb test detonation at Soledad Flats in Nevada from a military jet , Dr . Martin sees a strange flashing light which when approached causes the jet to crash . Doug's wife Ellen Martin ( Barbara Bestar ) is given the bad news , however rather unexpectedly Doug reappears alive & well apart from a strange scar on his chest . Mr . Briggs ( Steve Pendleton ) of the FBI is on the case & after noticing Doug act strangely suspects he may be leaking information to the other side , sure enough Doug is caught with sensitive information regarding the tests . Doug is given a truth serum for obvious reasons & is then questioned , what Doug says is a tale of aliens from a distant planet called Astron Delta & their need to wipe out humanity using giant carnivorous lizards & insects so they can conquer Earth for themselves ! Nobody believes him but Doug is determined to stop them . . . Produced & directed by W . Lee Wilder this is a poverty row 50's sci-fi film which has nothing going for it . The script by Bill Raynor which seems to take itself very seriously starts out like a spy flick with Briggs the FBI geezer chasing Doug around who is passing on secrets to the other side but then about halfway through the ping-pong eye ball aliens are introduced & it suddenly transforms into some unintentionally hilarious camp classic . You know I'm sitting there watching Killers from Space as the main English speaking killer from space dude is talking to Doug & revealing their entire plan & practically telling Doug how they can be defeated as well & I thought to myself would a seemingly intelligent alien tell someone this so he could pass it on & possibly stop them ? Then again maybe I'm just thinking about this film too much . The film also has a stab at a moral message about atomic bomb testing & radiation but in the end it's very ineffective & has no conviction to it . At only 70 odd minutes in length it's short but it doesn't feel like it , in fact this is one dull , boring & even at 70 minutes overlong mess of a film . Director Wilder makes a complete mess of everything , the action scenes are as lifeless as they come & any serious message about atomic testing is lost in the crapness of it all . The aliens themselves are hilarious , the ping pong eye balls , the jumper-suits with thick belts & lets not forget the large bushy eyebrows . These guys are meant to be scary but they are more like to bring about fits of laughter rather than send chills down your spine . There are also a collection of giant lizards & insects here , they are just normal lizards and insects filmed in close-up though & again are quite funny to watch . The rest of the special effects like the plane crashing are also terrible . The film has dated badly & there's another funny 50's bit when we go inside Doug & Ellen's bedroom , despite being married they sleep in different beds separated by a bedside cabinet ! Technically the film is poor with bad editing , awful day-for-night shooting which doesn't match , terrible use of stock footage , not so special effects & rock bottom production values . The acting is suitably rubbish & a fair amount of the cast actually smoke on screen . Killers from Space is a bit pants really , there's no scares or decent sci-fi in it , the aliens are ridiculous & despite being a public domain film so you can download it for free it's just not worth the time or effort .
Pretty bad haunted house horror film .	After the spooky events of Poltergeist ( 1982 ) and Poltergeist II : The Other Side ( 1986 ) Carol Anne ( Heather O'Rourke ) now lives in a high-rise apartment block somewhere in Chicago with her Aunt , Patricia ( Nancy Allen ) her husband Bruce Gardner ( Tom Skerritt ) and his daughter from a previous marriage Donna ( Lara Flynn Boyle ) . Carol Anne is attending a school for infant children with emotional problems , run by Dr . Arthur Seaton ( Richard Fire ) . Strange things start to happen , mirrors crack for no reason and a ghostly apparition begins to appear . Soon this ghost takes Carol Anne , Donna and one of Donna's friends named Scott ( Kipley Wentz ) to the other side . A dwarf named Tangina Barrons ( Zelda Rubinstein ) turns up and tells Pat and Bruce where Carol Anne is and how to get her back . But this ghost won't let her go easily . Bruce and Pat must fight dark forces to save themselves and their family . Co-written and directed by Gary Sherman I thought this was a waste of 100 odd minutes of my life . The script by Sherman and Brian Taggert is about as dull and uninteresting as you could hope for . Nothing exciting or in the least bit scary happens at all , a few lights , a bit of mist / dry ice and some failed attempt at spooky noises & voices . There's no gore to speak of , just a couple of dead bodies and a stupid scene where someone bursts out of another's body . On the positive side it's competently made and to be fair the second half moves a long at a fair pace , although the love conquers all ending is unoriginal and far too predictable . There's not much else to say , don't bother with this one as there are much better films out there worthy of your attention .
Sucks harder than any Vampire ever could . . .	Vampires Anonymous starts in Los Angeles where Vampire Vic Weller ( Paul Popowich ) needs help controlling his addiction to blood so he calls Vampires Anonymous who run a twelve step program for Vampires . A program designed to make Vampires not want to drink human blood & be there if they need help or are having trouble , the first step is apparently to ' admit you have a problem ' & ends with ' smile , your a winner ! ' although there's lots of hard work & temptation to overcome between . Vic gets packed of to Rock Creek , North Carolina where he has to blend in with the locals & feed on the blood of sheep but Vic finds it hard to suppress the Vampire within himself . . . Co-written , co-produced & directed by Michael Keller I have to say right off the bat that I hated Vampires Anonymous . , of course this is just my opinion & I'm in no way saying that you will definitely hate it but I think there's a fair chance the majority of potential viewers will find much more to hate in Vampires Anonymous than like . The script by Keller & J . P . Srinivasan is the biggest problem here , again this is just my opinion but I thought it was terrible . Vampires Anonymous is supposed to be some sort of light hearted comedy horror romance with a pinch of biting satire about therapy groups & psychiatric help thrown in there for good ( bad ? ) measure . If that basic story outline makes you laugh then you may enjoy Vampires Anonymous but I thought it was an awful attempt at trying to be clever & funny & different , Vampires Anonymous is one of the most unfunny comedies I've ever seen & the makers can't even pull off a good sheep shagging farmer joke . The genre of horror comedy is very hard to pull off & the makers of this fail in spectacular fashion , the horror elements are none existent , the romance is so cheesy & predictable I almost threw up & it took me four sittings of twenty odd minutes each to get through this because I literally couldn't get through it one go . Director Keller turns in a competent film & that's the only reason this turd gets rather than one . It's not scary , it's definitely not funny , there's no tension , it's utterly predictable , the story is all over the place , the character's are unlikable , the dialogue sucks & I found it a real chore to sit through . I didn't like it . At all . Forget about any gore , there's a couple of neck bitings & a bit of blood drinking otherwise nothing . No nudity either . According to the closing credits Vampires Anonymous was edited by the interesting named Farm Dog , either that it was was literally edited by a farm dog . Technically the film is fine & is really the only positive aspect of it but since it sucks so bad in every other way does it really matter ? Shot in Burlington in North Carolina apparently , I doubt this is going to do much for the tourist numbers though . I have some advice for Michael Madsen , get a new agent considering some of the crap he's been in . I mean from the classy Kill Bill : Vol . 1 ( 2003 ) to this as his next film ? ! Having said that the quotes ' I probably made a few pictures I shouldn't have done , but I have four sons and I have to pay the rent . If you have a decision to make about whether or not you can buy groceries at the market or whether or not you're going to make a bad movie , you're going to make a bad movie . ' & ' My career has been very strange . My career is like a heart monitor . I get involved in a good project now and then to keep things going . And then I make things that I work on that I hope are going to be good so I can make a living and keep a roof over the heads of those little monsters I have in my house . You know , every movie you make can't be great , no matter who you are . Even Brando made some clinkers . ' from his page on the IMDb explains why he makes rubbish like Vampires Anonymous . We all have to pay the rent I suppose . Vampires Anonymous sucks as much as the Vampires in the film , I'm sorry but I really disliked every aspect of the story & found it so unfunny & moronic it's untrue . If your looking for biting satire go elsewhere , if your looking for some laughs go elsewhere , if your looking for some horror go elsewhere & if your looking to be entertained go elsewhere .
Worst film ever ? Maybe . . . This just isn't bad , it's REALLY bad .	The Slaughterhouse Massacre starts at a Dallas college during 2003 where everyone is about to break up for the spring break , two couples Bobby ( Vaedynn Orland ) & Tina ( Stacey Denson ) plus Justin ( Maurizio Rasti ) & Stacey ( Shaila Vaidya ) decide to have a party that night . At the party their friend Stoner ( Jacob Baily ) tells them about an urban myth revolving around a slaughterhouse in the town of Allen in Texas , apparently ten years ago this very night a worker called Marty Sickle ( Paul Cagney ) was killed by a gang of thugs & if you say his rhyme three times in the slaughterhouse Marty will come back from the dead & kill everyone . Justin & Bobby think it would be fun to take their girlfriends to the slaughterhouse & play a trick on them using the myth , unfortunately for them the myth turns out to be true & before they know it they are running for their lives as the undead Marty kills them one-by-one . . . Known under the title Sickle here in the UK & in Australia while the Japanese apparently know it as Texas Slaughter this unbearably bad teen slasher was co-produced , written & directed by Paul Gagné & one really does have to say right from the start that The Slaughterhouse Massacre is a terrible film in every single way . To be honest after the first few minutes I thought it could have turned out to be a decent gory slasher , I mean a slasher set in a slaughterhouse has potential right ? All the dark mucky corridors , all the animal carcasses & of course all the knives , bone saw's , meat hooks & various equipment used to slaughter & slice up the animals would have made for a great setting . Unfortunately I don't think the film was shot in a real slaughterhouse since it doesn't look like a slaughterhouse & everything about the film is uniformly terrible even for a low budget teen slasher , the character's are awful ( after an expensive video camera falls into a tub of muddy water they just leave it , these are the sort of people who can't walk in a straight line with falling over , tripping over something , bumping into something or twisting their ankle & when one finally escapes instead of going for help she heads straight back to the slaughterhouse ) , the storyline rips-off various other slasher films like the rhyme from A Nightmare on Elm Street ( 1984 ) , the whole say his name three times & he will appear scenario from Candyman ( 1992 ) & the whole wise-cracking undead killer from beyond the grave has been done to death . At almost 100 minutes in length the film is also incredibly boring , most viewers will lose the will to live long before the end credits roll , I know I did . The first five minutes or so had potential , first there's the title ' The Slaughterhouse Massacre ' which is very evocative . I mean the word ' slaughterhouse ' conjures up a place of blood , gore , suffering & death , the word ' massacre ' again gives one the impression lots of people are going to die but I wouldn't exactly call four people killed a massacre , would you ? Then there's that crazy chick at the start , the very first line of dialogue in the film is some teenage blonde girl saying ' I want to make love where they slaughter all of those animals ' , right lets just think about that statement . Why would anyone want to have sex in a slaughterhouse ? At this point the film should go for a light hearted tone but the whole film takes itself very seriously & it just falls apart because of how moronic it is . The gore levels are disappointing , there's no slaughterhouse footage , two people are cut in half , one vertically the other horizontally , someone gets a sickle in the back , there are a couple of quick decapitations & that's about it . With a supposed budget of about $250 , 000 The Slaughterhouse Massacere is extremely poorly made , the editing is horrible & it's sometimes impossible to work out whats happening although that could be down to the production team not shooting enough footage . The effects are poor , the cinematography is awful with huge changes in lighting between shots & camera angles which barely let you see anything . The acting is terrible too although the girls look quite nice I suppose . The Slaughterhouse Massacre is a truly terrible film in every conceivable way , there are one or two unintentionally funny moments which made me chuckle but overall sitting through 100 odd minutes of this in one go turned out to be a painful experience . You have been warned .
Absolutely terrible .	The Trip starts as eight college friends begin a trip from Los Angeles to Arizona for reasons which aren't important , up front in the sports car it's Carl ( Larry Bagby ) & his girlfriend Devan ( Courtney Cole ) along with Garry ( Michael Chamberlain ) & his stash of ecstasy that they plan on selling , then in the off roader it's Devan's sister Cess ( Heather Shrake ) along with Dana ( Elizabeth Keller ) & Darius ( David Slocum ) while in the piece of crap run down car it's Sylvia & Veronica ( Cristal Gerrick ) . The three cars travel across the long winding roads & encounter a dirty blue truck which Carl gets involved in a road rage incident with which turns out to be a bad idea since the driver of the truck then decides to go after the friends & kill them one-by-one . . . Written , produced & directed by Mark Cross this is another rubbishy zero budget independent horror themed piece of nonsense that really is no fun to watch at all . The script takes itself extremely seriously & is a complete total & utter bore from start to finish , virtually nothing happens that could even begin to pass as entertaining & to me by the last 20 odd minutes The Trip felt like it was nothing much more than scenes of cars driving along edited together between a few dull than dull conversation's amongst some very annoying teenage character's . There is a bit of a story here & it all ends with an absolutely horrible sentimental message which you feel is close to the director's heart in the way it comes across . The story itself is thin , it makes little sense , there's no real explanation to anything that's going on , there are more than a few holes in it & the twists are extremely obvious & predictable in a ' I worked out that was going to happen 20 minutes ago ' sort of way . Then there's the fact The Trip is incredibly boring & slow , there are huge chunks of this film where virtually nothing happens & it nearly put me to sleep on several occasions . Director Cross can't write a good horror film but he has some technical competence & The Trip is reasonably well made , I'd have said it was well made if not for the fact the colours are very muted & during the night scenes you can barely see anything . The Trip isn't scary in the slightest , it has zero tension or atmosphere & it hasn't a single drop of blood in the film as people are run over in very unspectacular ways . The budget was obviously low on The Trip , the so-called action scenes between the various cars lack any excitement or pace & they can't even afford to show anyone actually run over as it's mostly hint's & suggestions . The acting is generally on the wrong side of average . The Trip seems to be quite an obscure film & to be honest you should be thankful that it is & hope that it stays that way . Zero scares , zero gore , zero excitement , zero sense & zero entertainment .
Another rubbish Sci-Fi Channel ' Creature Feature ' .	Croc is set in Thailand where American Jack McQuade ( Peter Tuinstra ) runs a zoo for locals & tourists with his nephew Theo ( Scott Hazell ) . Greedy property developer Cao Konsong ( Wasan Junsook ) wants to shut the zoo since he wants to build a road through it & resorts to underhanded tactics to achieve this , Cao's younger brother Andy ( Tawon Saetang ) hears that someone has been killed by a Crocodile & sensing an opportunity releases the Crocodiles from Jack's zoo in order to make it look like his Crodile's were responsible . At first everyone buy's it which leaves the real huge man-eating Crocodile to carry on killing people . Evetually the authorities realise the mistake & Jack take sit upon himself to find the real Crocodile & stop it . . . Diretced by Stewart Raffill this is yet another awful ' Creature Feature ' that premiered on the Sci-Fi Channel , why do they keep making & showing this rubbish ? I suppose someone must like them , I mean someone must keep on watching them surely ? If not they wouldn't get made , right ? Anyway Croc has all the usual ' Creature Feature ' flaws , a terrible script that almost totally ignores the main monster & instead focuses on a couple of really boring sub-plots like Jack not paying his taxes & the property developers trying to get Jack's zoo shut down . Listen guy's we creature feature fans don't want to see that crap we just want to see the huge Crocodile kill & eat people . The character's , dialogue , plot , narrative & logic are all well below par & overall Croc is just a terrible film that bored the life out of me . The film drags , there's nothing to engage or interest the viewer & it utterly predictable in a Sci-Fi Channel ' Creature Feature ' sort of way . Unlike most Sci-Fi Channel ' Creature Features ' Croc doesn't have that much bad CGI computer effects work in it , sure it has some but most of the Crocodile attack scenes are a mixture of quick cuts , bad editing , people splashing around in the water & stock footage of real crocodiles which looks like it was lifted from some wildlife documentary . There's a definite shift in picture quality , lighting & you can tell the Crocodile isn't twenty feet long like the film claims as the surrounding terrain like grass , stones , splashes & the like reveal otherwise . The attack scenes are horribly edited , you can barely tell whats going on & they just look awful . There's a bit of gore , there are some severed limbs & in particular a decapitated mangled head , having said that it really doesn't amount to much though . With a supposed budget of about $750 , 000 this obviously had a small budget & it shows . Actually shot on location in Thailand the scenery looks quite nice & is the only reason I am giving Croc rather than one . Michael Madsen is really slumming it here & turns in an absolutely awful performance , I guess he either needed the money or wanted a free holiday in Thailand or both . Croc is another awful Sci-Fi Channel ' Creature Feature ' that has all the usual flaws , it's boring , predictable , stupid & infuriating to sit through . Watch the infinitely better Lake Placid ( 1999 ) again instead .
Absolutely worthless attempt at exploitation , very disappointing .	Ilsa , Harem Keeper of the Oil Sheiks starts somewhere in a Middle Eastern desert as a special delivery of three crates are made to the Palace of Sheik El Sharif ( Jerry Delony as Victor Alexander ) where he likes to use & abuse various pretty young women before selling them to other rich oil Sheik's in slave auctions , the sadistic Ilsa ( Dyanne Thorne ) in her own unique way makes sure they obey his every wish without question & are fully trained to please their new owners aided by her two lesbian assistants Satin ( Tanya Boyd ) & Velvet ( Marilyn Joi ) . The three crates contain kidnapped women , Nora Edward ( Sharon Kelly ) the daughter & sole heir of a rich American businessman , Inga Lindstrom ( Uschi Digard as Elke Von ) an actress dubbed the ' new Scandinavian love goddess ' & Alina Cordova ( Haji as Haji Cat ) an equestrian champion from Europe . It's up to Ilsa to convince them to obey the Sheik's every command , Ilsa does pretty much whatever she wants to them to make them comply . Meanwhile the Sheik is expecting visitors , two Americans named Kaiser ( Richard Kennedy as Wolfgang Roehm ) & Commander Adam Scott ( Max Thayer as Michael Thayer ) who intend to blackmail the Sheik into making him give up his land which is rich in oil . However their plans don't go as they had hoped . . . This Canadian American co-production was produced & directed by Don Edmonds & in my opinion is pretty worthless , surely this is the worst of the Ilsa films which lets face it are hardly brilliant anyway . This was the second out of four Ilsa film's following Ilsa , She Wolf of the SS ( 1975 ) , the fact that Ilsa died at the end of the previous film doesn't seem to matter . The script by Langston Stafford is much lighter & campier in tone than the original , which is most definitely a bad thing . It has been stated that the filmmakers intended to make a much tamer film to obtain a lower rating & appeal to a larger audience , well that's fine but the finished product ended up being very disappointing as far as I'm concerned . There is no attempt at any sort of characterisation , all the women in this film are one dimensional , are given no background , personality or feelings & are simply there to be used , abused , treated like dirt & are nothing more than objects to please men . This is simply not an attitude that I can condone or take any enjoyment from . The exception is obviously Ilsa herself , but she is little more than the comic book villain & is there only to cash in on the Ilsa name . The sleaze & violence has little impact because of the overall tone & feel of the film , there is plenty of female nudity & ( very ) softcore sex scenes , there are a few lame torture sequences too like pouring flesh eating ants ( ? ! ) over someones foot , a thief has his hand chopped off , an exploding stomach & in the films most brutal scene someone is set on fire . The rest of the blood & gore consists of joke shop quality fake blood & stick on rubber scars . There is a few minutes of unexciting action towards the end when the prisoners fight back but like the rest of the film director Edmonds fails to create any sort of pace or tension . I was surprised at just how well made Ilsa , Harem Keeper of the Oil Sheiks is , the costumes , locations , sets , cinematography & general production values are much better than I would have expected . The acting was OK for this sort of thing I suppose but you have to be a bit suspicious when so many of the cast hide behind pseudonym's . In my opinion the worst & tamest of the Ilsa films that barely qualifies as exploitation , even Jess Franco's Ilsa , The Wicked Warden ( 1977 ) is better than this . Not even an exploding electric dildo can save it , one to avoid .
" I wouldn't fck her with his dck . " Stupid idiotic nonsense .	Tequila Body Shots starts in Los Angeles where Johnny ( Joseph Lawrence ) tells his two best friends , Al ( Josh Marchette ) & Paul ( Nathan Anderson ) , that he has been invited to a Halloween party in Mexico by someone named Hector ( Rene L . Moreno ) . The three friends decide to go & set off but Al & Paul become very sick on the journey , Johnny seeks help & meets Doc ( Henry Darrow ) who manages to cure Al & Paul with a couple of tequila body shots . The friends give Doc a lift into town & before they part company Doc gives Johnny a bottle of tequila of his own which gives Johnny the power to read women's thoughts . As Johnny , Al & Paul party the day away they meet three girls , Tamlyn ( Dru Mouser ) , Angela ( Jennifer Lyons ) & Linda ( Senta Moses ) . Johnny & Tamlyn seem to like each other but the mysterious Hector just won't seem to go away , from threatening voices to eerie hallucinations there seems to be something sinister going on . . . Written , co-produced & directed by Tony Shyu I have mixed feelings about Tequila Body Shots . The script is unique & has at least some originality about it but that's simply not enough when the whole concept & execution is so bad . For a start the film drags painfully in parts & most of it seems to be shots of annoying teenagers standing around drinking & cracking extremely unfunny jokes . The plot is bizarre , it contains magical tequila , hallucinations , ghosts , mind reading , reincarnation , possession , prophecies , a strange spirit world with the grim reaper , Nazi looking ghosts & a for good measure a few lame fart jokes . None of these elements come together that well & I'm not even sure what type of film Tequila Body Shots is supposed to be , is it a comedy ? A horror ? A buddy-buddy road film ? An adventure film ? It's a very hard film to categorise , it's something a bit different & the filmmakers must at least get some credit for trying something unusual but unfortunately that just didn't stop me from thinking that at the end of the day I had just wasted 90 plus odd minutes of my life watching total crap . The character's got on my nerves to start with but they sort of grew on me & I ended up quite liking them , also I couldn't but help think that if Doc knew what was going to happen why didn't he just stop Johnny & his friends going to the party in the first place & prevent the whole sorry situation ? Tequila Body Shots is , at this point in time , the one & only film that director Shyu has worked on . I have to give him some credit as it's certainly colourful & has a garish look to it although all the Mexican stereotypical clichés come out like innuendo about sheep , everyone seems to wear sombreros & that all Mexican jails are full of gays . . . The film jumps into some sort of spirit world towards the end & it's all filmed in a blueish tone & it looks awful , the grim reaper ends up rowing what looks like a wooden box ! There are no scares , atmosphere & the jokes are really unfunny . Forget about any blood or gore as not one single drop of blood is spilt during it's duration . Technically the film varies , some of it looks nice & colourful while at other times it's one of the cheapest , nastiest & most idiotic films ever . The acting ranges from OK to utterly awful especially Robert Patrick Benedict as Ted who is highly irritating whenever on screen . Tequila Body Shots is an unusual film to be sure , I don't think I've ever seen another film like it but as I've already said that's not enough to save it from being really crap . A bit of a mess & not worth wasting your time on in my opinion .
Another 80's slasher & this one is worse than usual .	Sorority House Massacre starts as Beth ( Angela O'Neill ) arrives at her friends sorority house to stop over for the weekend to see whether she will join the house , herself , Linda ( Wendy Martel ) , Sara ( Pamela Ross ) & Tracy ( Nicole Rio ) all intend to have heaps of fun over the forthcoming weekend . However things take a turn for the worse almost immediately when Beth starts to suffer from graphic & terrifying dreams & hallucinations . Meanwhile in a nearby mental asylum convicted mass murderer Robert ( John C . Russell ) manages to escape thanks to some ( very ) slack security procedures , unknown to the girls Robert brutally murdered his entire family in they're sorority house except his sister who hid from him . Can you guess who his sister is ? Can you guess what Robert intends to do & what happens during the remainder of Sorority House Massacre ? Of course you can , it's hardly rocket science is it ? Written & directed by Carol Frank Sorority House Massacre is one of the lamest , poorest & rubbish 80's slashers money can buy & only really succeeds in confirming that a woman can make a horror film every bit as bad as a bloke . Where to start ? Basically this is one massive dull , unoriginal , routine , bland , forgettable , boring & just plain bad waste of celluloid , it's as simple & straight forward as that folks . On a personal level there is nothing that I enjoyed about Sorority House Massacre , it's full of clichés , annoying teenage character's , lame death scenes , bad dialogue , situations & happenings that make no sense plus it's extremely slow & boring . It takes itself far too seriously like the filmmakers thought they were making something profound & meaningful , hey guys you weren't . There's a whole sub plot thing about being psychically linked which was as interesting & plausible as it sounds , basically not very . Sorority House Massacre is the sort of slasher film to give slasher films a bad name as if the slasher sub genre didn't have enough of one already , I can't remember enjoying any single aspect of this film . At all . Director Frank doesn't do much to liven the film up , it doesn't have much in the way of style or visual quality & it's very , very dark . The entire film is set in one house & I just have to ask how many times can you have your character's run up & down the stairs before it begins to get tiresome ? There are so many things that I didn't like about this film I could go on all day long but I think you get the idea , I don't like Sorority House Massacre at all . Forget about much gore , every person who is killed in this film is dispatched the same way . Everyone is stabbed , there's no variety to the murders & there's a distinct lack of exploitation & blood . There's a bit of nudity but if that's what you want go hire some porn out . Technically Sorority House Massacre actually isn't too bad & could even be described as being quite well made , it's just a shame the film overall sucks so bad . The acting was neither here nor there , average at best . Sorority House Massacer is yet another cheap low budget piece of crap from executive producer Roger Corman's New Concorde Pictures , I sat there openly willing it to finish I was that bored . Total crap & I just about hated every lame boring minute of it , there are loads more much better slasher films out there for anyone to be bothering with such a crap film such as Sorority House Massacre . One to avoid . I'm not sure why but a sequel Sorority House Massacre II ( 1990 ) turned up a few years later , I've seen it & yes it's an improvement but not by much .
Very , very poor .	A fat , ugly , bearded down on his luck & unsuccessful ( for good reason ) artist named Malcolm ( Bo Brundin ) finds paying the rent where he lives in New York City a little tough . So during the pre-credit sequence Malcolm breaks into a woman's apartment in the middle of the night and tries to steal her money and jewellery . Unfortunately for Malcolm she wakes up and in the ensuing struggle between the two she gouges his left eyeball out with a spoon . Malcolm screams " my eye ! " in pain as he escapes , his eyeball hanging from it's socket . An unknown amount of time has passed and Malcolm now wears an eye-patch and he has nightmares / hallucinations about eyes . Malcolm owns a shop in New York City in which he sells art , including what looks like novelty clear square paper weights with eyes in the center . Two party goers stare at Malcolm through the window , late one night , and make fun of him . Malcolm takes offence and follows them both back to their apartment , kills them and gouges out their eyes , with a special spoon Malcolm carries around with him for just such an occasion ! On his way back home the next morning a prostitute asks him if he is OK because he has blood on his hand which she thinks is his own and might be bleeding . She takes Malcolm back to her apartment and he kills her too , gouging her eyes out as well . And so the film continues in exactly the same vein for pretty much the rest of it's duration . Written and directed by the seemingly very untalented Kent Bateman this is one extremely poor horror film . The script is a mess , most of the characters in the Headless Eyes are introduced to the viewer and then two minutes later killed by Malcolm . No one is given any meaningful lines or character development apart from Brundin . There are two other characters that the script tries to flesh out a little , Malcolms ex-wife Anna who is in it for one short sequence and then never seen again and a New York art school student who likes Malcolms work and tries to befriend him but again she is in the film for a very short amount of time in a very tight fifteen minute period and then disappears never to be seen again as quickly as she appeared in the first place . So , with basically no one but Brundin to carry the film we have a big problem already as he is absolutely terrible . He spouts inane dialogue that doesn't mean a thing , pulls some funny faces every so often , is generally awful to watch and is overweight & very unattractive too . And why have the police not caught Malcolm ? By the time the film ends he has killed over fifteen people in broad daylight , sometimes without gloves and in the victims own home as well possibly around their friends / family . The photography is some of the worst I've seen , it was obviously filmed on 16mm film using a hand-held camera , that's the only explanation I can think of for the constant jerkiness . It often looks as if Bateman just pointed his camera in the general direction and hoped for the best . The whole production is poor throughout . Editing , music , direction and production values are rock bottom . New York City is a cool location and I liked the last ten or so minutes in the grimy slaughterhouse when Malcolm was stalking a woman through large animal carcasses and among dangerous looking meat hooks , this was easily the films best sequence overall but it in no way makes up for the previous 70 odd minutes of total amateurishness and tedium . The special effects are poor & the gore is generally quite tame with nothing more than a bit of fake blood running down peoples faces and a few scooped out eyes , nothing to shout about . I really can't think of a single thing with which to recommend the Headless Eyes as entertainment , steer well clear of this incredibly bad film as there are so many better horror films out there much more worthy of your time .
Real bottom of the barrel stuff from everyone involved .	Ticker is set in San Francisco where narcotics cop Detective Ray Nettles ( Tom Sizemore ) & his partner Detective Art ' Fuzzy ' Rice ( Nas ) are following up on a lead when they come across IRA terrorist & bomb expert Alex Swan ( Dennis Hopper ) & his woman Claire Manning ( Jamie Pressly ) , Fuzzy is shot dead & Swan escapes but Nettles manages to capture Claire & take her in . Swan needs Claire so phones the police demanding that Claire be let go or he'll blow lots of things up which will kill people , lots of people . Nettles teams up with the bomb squad & Lieutenant Frank Glass ( Steven Seagal ) who is the one in charge to track down Swan & disarm his bombs , erm that's about it really . Directed by Albert Pyun this film has a pretty bad reputation which , I'm sad to report , it fully deserves . Things got off to a bad start when I saw the ' Nu Image ' logo appear prior to the films commencement , my heart literally sank as I'm one of the few poor souls who has actually sat through some of their giant ' creature feature ' flicks so my hopes for Ticker were not high & despite that I still felt let down . The script by Paul B . Margolis is awful , the character's are awful , the dialogue is awful , the story is awful , things happen to accommodate the copious use of footage stolen from other ' Nu Image ' films & the fact the three main ' stars ' who are all packing some serious excess weight around their belly's probably never met each other & were probably only available for short times means the script was also tailored for this & it just ends up looking & feeling an absolute mess . Ticker is just awful , I've seen some terrible Seagal flicks but even I think this is probably his worst film & believe me that's saying something . As for respectable actors such as Tom Sizemore & Dennis Hopper they should know better & are far too good for crap like this . The only good aspect of Ticker is that it actually had a decent plot twist towards the end but coming in such a bad film it matters little . Director Pyun turns in a terrible film , the action scenes are absolutely terrible since almost all of the explosions & action is stolen from other films , footage from Deadly Outbreak ( 1996 ) makes for the opening explosion of the senator's house , The Last Days of Frankie the Fly ( 1997 ) steals footage of Dennis Hopper , The Peacekeeper ( 1997 ) accounts for virtually the entire final 20 minutes & it also uses footage from Sweepers ( 1998 ) . The continuity is absolutely horrible , the sites of explosions changes between shots , the things that are blowing up changes , cars change types , the number of passengers in them changes & this is just a really badly , cheaply made flick that is quite frankly a disaster on every level . The IMDb says Ticker cost $25 , 000 , 000 to make , no disrespect but that's bull . The makers have said that it cost a lot less & director Pyun has said in interviews that it cost a mere $600 , 000 & was shot in just 11 days & I believe him . Apparently Hopper was only on set for 1 day & never met any of his co-stars , his Irish accent is terrible & I think you can see he knows the films junk & he isn't really trying . In fact Hopper's role as a mad bomber holding a city to ransom isn't a million miles from his role in Speed ( 1994 ) , having said that Seagal playing a hard as nails karate kicking cop is more or less the same role as every other film he's been in as well . Why actor's like Sizemore , Hopper , Seagal & Peter Greene agreed to do Ticker is beyond me . Ice-T also makes a small appearance at the end . Ticker is an awful film , there are some unintentionally hilarious moments in it which makes it one of those car crash films which are a complete disaster but you can't take your eyes off it . Do yourself a favour & give this one a miss .
All the awful reviews & comments are true , Python is terrible .	Python starts in the sky over the Californian town of Ruby where during a violent thunderstorm a cargo plane crashes into the nearby woods . . . Roberta ( Kathleen Lambert ) & Lisa ( LoriDawn Messuri ) are having lesbian sex in their tent in the very same woods when they are attacked by something large & very unfriendly . Lisa's mutilated & burnt remains are found the next day , Sheriff Griffin Wade ( Gary Grubbs ) & his Deputies Greg Larson ( William Zabka ) & Lewis Ross ( Sean Whalen ) are on the case . Top on the list of suspects is John Cooper ( Frayne Rosanoff ) who works for Perfecto Plating , a company that uses strong chemicals acids . Meanwhile agent Parker ( Casper Van Dien ) quizzes the sinister Dr . Anton Rudolph ( Robert Englund ) about what was on the plane , Rudolph says that a huge 60 foot long Python was aboard & is worth millions but at the same time absolutely lethal . More residents of Ruby become victims of the giant Python it's up to John & his girlfriend Kristin ( Dana Barron ) to clear his name & stop the Python . . . Directed by Richard Clabaugh Python is one seriously terrible film . The script by Chris Neal , Garrison Hershberger & Paul Bogh is poor & I can't believe it took three people to write this . To it's credit it starts off OK with the Python kept in the background munching it's way through various cast members but once we pass the 30 odd minute mark it sinks faster than a lead balloon . The character's are awful & highly annoying once the film settles down & focuses on them especially Lewis the comedy relief Deputy , the special effects are terrible & the Python barely features & seems almost a secondary consideration at times , the plotting & story are stupid & dumb to the extreme like when the Python stops a garage door from opening with it's tail I mean do Python's have a good working knowledge of garage door mechanism's ? Also at the end when John & Krstin find an underground bunker to shelter in but don't close the door behind themselves ? There are just too many things wrong with Python to go into detail about , not the worst creature feature out there but no too far from it . On a positive note it moves along at a fair pace & the scene with Jenny McCarthy is actually very funny , hopefully this was intentional . Director Clabaugh on the DVD commentary track doesn't have particularly good things to say about Python due to the lack of time & money like the fact that the giant Python obviously couldn't fit in that small garage but they simply couldn't find or afford to build a bigger one ! As a whole it's a pretty bad film from start to finish although the first half an hour isn't too bad compared to the rest of it . The only gore is when someone is decapitated & there are some partially digested skeletal remains . There are a couple of instances of nudity but nothing to get too excited about . The budget must have been low as the effects are poor , the Python is used sparingly & the whole thing looks & feels cheap . You can tell Python was made-for-TV & not very well made at that . The acting isn't up to much while Van Dien is terrible & looks ridiculous with that moustache ! Python has no real entertainment value & isn't worth wasting your time with . Definitely one to avoid .
A rather dull , uneventful and frankly boring revenge film that has an incredibly misleading title .	The opening of Massacre at Central High has the credits play over shots of the films main character David ( Derrel Maury ) running along a road and across beach in Southern California to an awful song called ' crossroads ' . It's David's first day at school after having recently moved to the area . His friend Mark ( Andrew Stevens ) belongs to a gang of bullies , Craig ( Steve Bond ) , Paul ( Damon Douglas ) and Bruce ( Ray Underwood ) . Mark tries to make things easy for David by getting him excepted into the gang . But after seeing how the bullies treat various other students David has none of it , and in fact tries to befriend and help the picked on students . He also becomes very friendly with Marks girlfriend Theresa ( Kimberly Beck ) . One day Craig , Paul and Bruce try to rape two female students , Mary ( Cheryl " Rainbeaux " Smith ) and Jane ( Lani O'Grady ) . Both Theresa and David see whats happening and stop it . The bullies go after David and in an ' accident ' David's leg is crushed , crippling him . He sets out to take revenge on those responsible . However it soon becomes clear that with no one to keep the other students under control the school quickly becomes worse than before and it soon turns into a free for all as anarchy breaks loose , realising what he has done David must clean up the mess he has unwillingly created . Written and directed by Rene Daalder I really didn't like this much at all , even though I know it gets a lot of good reviews . Maybe the problem was the exploitative title Massacre at Central High , it was also known as Blackboard Massacre here in the UK as well . I was expecting a gory slasher with loads of teens being hacked up , but what I ended up with was far from that , a rather tame drama with a bit of revenge thrown in to keep any potential viewers just about awake through the 85 odd minute running time . The script , I presume , tries to be thought provoking with its supposed social satire as the students run riot with their newly found freedom as they have no one to control them . The script is character development heavy and very light on action and exploitation elements . No adults are seen in the film until the last 10 or so minutes , I'm not sure where all the teachers and parents are or the police when the students start having ' accidents ' . It's an interesting idea but the film itself is boring , dull and somewhat poorly made . You can clearly see the boom mike in scene . There's no blood , gore or violence in it , unless you count someone being murdered by their own hearing aid ! Or some people in a tent being crushed by some fake looking boulders . Music , editing , and photography are all instantly forgettable . Maybe I wasn't in the right mood when I watched this as I could see why someone might like it , but for me it was a bit of a snooze fest . Disappointingly slow , dull and unexciting .
Awful film that can't seem to decide what it wants to be .	Cold Creek Manor starts off in New York City where high flying businesswoman Leah Tilson ( Sharon Stone ) & her low budget documentary film-making husband Cooper ( Dennis Quaid ) decide to leave the big city behind & take their two young children Jesse ( Ryan Wilson ) & Kristen ( Kristen Stewart ) & buy a large house out in the sticks . They buy a old farm called Cold Creek Manor for a cheap price in the County of Bellingham & move in . At first things go well & the huge manor house seems perfect as they begin to convert it into their dream home , however local thug Dale Massie ( Stephen Dorff ) used to live there before the bank sold it to pay his debts & still considers it his house . Dale begins to terrorise & threaten the Tilson's but is there more to his intimidation than simply being upset about losing his house ? This English , American & Canadian co-production was co-produced & directed by Mike Figgis who also provided the musical score & to be blunt Cold Creek Manor is an awful film & it's as simple & straight forward as that . The script by Richard Jefferies takes itself extremely seriously & is full of holes , is packed full of clichés & is perhaps one of the most boring & uneventful big budget Hollywood flicks I've ever seen . Seriously Cold Creek Manor is really boring to watch , I almost fell asleep on several occasions & by the hour mark & was sitting there just muttering the words ' please finish ' to myself . There are some truly hilarious scenes here , the stand out one has to be the house with about six snakes in it & the entire Tilson family act like they are trapped in a burning house rather than faced with the huge threat of about six docile snakes . Lets get this into perspective , this isn't a mass of 1000's of deadly snakes like seen in Raiders of the Lost Ark ( 1981 ) there's a few snakes who don't even try to attack them & it's one of those scenes which you have to see to believe . Another hilarious scene is where Cooper is standing in his driveway which is paved with gravel , let's not forget this is a huge house with a huge driveway yet he finds a clump of mud which interests him enough to pick it up & it turns out that it's Dale's daughter's brace & teeth ! Again the scene is played totally seriously & it's hard not to laugh at it . The character's are awful & Dale is never even given a reason for killing his wife & children , their decision making is terrible , their motivations are rubbish , the twists are predictable , the ending is awful & doesn't make a whole lot of sense the story is dull & generally speaking Cold Creek Manor is a serious big budget turkey of the highest order . Director Figgis can't decide what sort of film he's making , is this meant to be a horror flick or a thriller ? The way the film is shot it resembles a haunted house horror flick but it's not scary & nothing supernatural happens in it & since the plot is so predictable & poorly plotted it fails as a thriller as well . Cold Creek Manor is just a mess of a film which I don't really know who it would appeal too , as I've said it's not a horror film at all despite what the trailer may indicate . Having the sort of budget this did means Cold Creek Manor certainly looks nice enough with great sets which if they had been utilised in a horror film might have been very effective , as it stands I don't really understand why it's shot in the way it is . With what was probably a big budget Cold Creek Manor is well made with superb production values but the film still sucks . Set in New York this was shot in Ontario in Canada . The acting is bad , bad , bad . This just proves my theory that Total Recall ( 1990 ) & Basic Instinct ( 1992 ) were complete flukes & Sharon Stone is an awful actress in everything else she's been in . Dennis Quaid looks like he's just here for the money while Stepehn Dorff was nominated as worst supporting actor at the 2004 Razzie Awards for this which says it all . Cold Creek Manor is awful , I honestly can't think of a better more to the point way to describe it , I really can't . At almost two hours & a terrible plot I would recommend you give Cold Creek Manor the cold shoulder .
Absolutely terrible rip-off of several other better films .	Guardians is set in a world where a secret organisation protects Earth & it's habitants from evil forces , they travel around in a cheap van defeating Vampires & monsters & generally making the world a better & safer place to live . Team leader Alex ( Shannon Watson ) is alerted to the presence of monsters in a small US town that have been summoned by ex-team member & all round bad guy Dr . Strand ( Bryce Lord ) using an ancient spell book which is one of the most powerful occult items in existence . Strand intends to create an entire army of monsters & take over the world unless Alex & his team who work out of a white van can stop him . They find most of the townspeople barricaded in the local high school which means they also have a rescue mission on their hands . . . Scored , edited , written & directed by Drew Maxwell I will get straight to the point & say that Guardians is quite simply terrible on all fronts . As I write this comment the only other IMDb user comment rated Guardians an impressive & describes it as the ' greatest film of all time ' at least twice , suspiciously this user has no other comments & is surely a fake review since I simply can't believe anyone would rate this piece of rubbish a perfect . Everyone is entitled to their opinion but to my eyes everything about Guardians is awful , the story takes ideas & themes from the likes of The Mist ( 2007 ) with the whole mist covered town setting with various survivors fighting off monsters , the whole ancient evil book of spells & magic smells of The Evil Dead ( 1982 ) while the whole team of heavily armed military type character's fighting monsters bears more than a passing resemblance to Aliens ( 1986 ) & the thing about a secret organisation protecting an ignorant Earth from various monsters & Vampires might remind you of films like Men in Black ( 1997 ) & Blade ( 1998 ) . The film is very poor on all fronts , Guardians is the sort of low budget rubbish that is written around it's budget & the lack of money pretty much determines what will happen rather than the writers imagination . The character's & dialogue are awful , there's zero humour , the action scenes are very poor with an awkward mix of unconvincing CGI & on set effects , the whole film is very predictable & lacks any pace , the story doesn't draw you in or entertain & I honestly can't think of a single positive thing to say about this . Guardians isn't a so bad it's good film it's a so bad you'll want to slit your wrists film . Right , as expected the CGI computer effects are less than convincing . The creature design is alright but the animation & movement is poor . There's no gore to speak of , a guy is impaled , someone is stabbed but otherwise it's just some fake blood splashed around . The basic concept of the film didn't work for me at all , all the surviving townspeople shelter inside the local high school with nothing more than glass panel doors as protection & the makers ask us to believe that these super human monsters that can rip the roof of a car can't break a door down or smash a window & get into the school . Even with simple wooden barricades blocking the doors I still don't buy it for a second , I mean these monsters are pretty useless if they can't break a door down , I mean how are they expecting to take over the world if they can't even get past a single door ? Maybe I'm thinking about it too much , I don't know & I don't really care since Guardians is so bad but it's riddled with problems & holes & just plain stupidity it doesn't work as a serious film which it undoubtedly sets out to be . Production wise the film is rock bottom , I know it had a low budget but that's still no excuse for turning in such an awful film . There's no scares or tension or atmosphere or any semblance of coherent story & none of those things require huge amounts of money , do they ? The cinematography is awful & there are an alarming amount of times when you literally can't see whats happening because the lighting is so bad & the screen is pitch black . The acting matches the rest of the production standard wise . Guardians is an utterly awful film , I don't really care how low budget it was or how hard the makers tried but when the end product is so bad you can only forgive so much & Guardians ask's you to forgive it's entire existence which I can't . Sorry .
Another terrible zero budget piece of crap .	Shapeshifter is set in a state prison where state law demands the warden has to have a minimum number of female deputies , ex-soldier Ginny Lydon ( Jennifer Lee Wiggins ) gets the job . It's Ginny's first night & she's placed in the low security wing where they keep the none violent & mentally unbalance prisoners , a new prisoner named Velku ( Vaz Andreas ) turns out to be a Romanian shapeshifter who can transform into a huge hairy monster thing . It's there to break fellow Romanian Marcoux ( Marat Glazer ) out & kill any witnesses in order to conceal it's human identity , however it never reckoned on Ginny Lydon who doesn't take too kindly to hairy monsters ripping her prisoners apart on her shift . . . Co-written & directed by Gregory Lemkin one has to say that without wishing to sound too unkind Shapeshifter is awful . The script by Lemkin & A . Everett Howe is terrible , it's boring , it's predictable , it's slow , nothing of any interest happens & it goes on for too long , far too long . The character's are awful , the dialogue is awful , the comedy relief is awful & all the character motivations are awful like continually splitting up & wondering off down corridors on their own , not making enough of an effort to escape , standing around talking doing nothing in particular & this whole film is just bad . Very bad . Director Lemkin doesn't do anything to make this rubbish any more watchable , there are annoying editing techniques where everything on the screen goes double & blurry , there's the usual irritating & pointless slow motion scenes & as a general rule Shapeshifter is a bit of an eyesore . There's some cheap gore , a few people have their guts ripped out & someone has their head bashed in , these scenes are pretty brief & sound batter than they actually are . There's no atmosphere , no tension & certainly no scares . The special effects are terrible , the actual hairy creature thing looks absolutely awful in every respect . Even with Lemkin trying to keep it in the shadows as much as possible can't disguise how bad this thing looks . With a supposed budget of about $200 , 000 this was a low budget film & it show's , it's pretty bland , dull & incompetent . Shot in Los Angeles . The acting is terrible by no-one you've ever heard of plain & simple , enough said . Shapeshifter is one of those awful horror films where nothing works , it's one of those films where after the first twenty odd minutes you just sit there waiting & hoping it will finish . Soon . Definitely not recommended .
Another awful Asian ghost film .	Chakushin Ari is set in Japan where teenager Yumi Nakamura ( Kou Shibasaki ) attends University , while eating out her friend Yoko Okazaki ( Anna Nagata ) receives a call on her mobile . Yoko missed the call but a voice message was left , the strange message is dated the 18th April which is two days away & came from her own mobile number . Then two days later on the 18th Yoko dies in a mysterious accident , after that her friend Kenji Kawai ( Atsushi Ida ) receives a similar call & he too dies in mysterious circumstances shortly after . The rumour going around the University is that an evil ghost is killing people & using the contact list in their mobile phones to select another victim . Then Yumi's best friend Natsumi Yamashita ( Shin'ichi Tsutsumi ) receives a call , determined not to let her friend die or even become the next victim Yumi sets out to find the truth behind the killings & stop it . . . More commonly known under the title One Missed Call to English speaking audiences this Japanese production was directed by Takashi Miike & for me is another rubbishy Asian ghost story , to be brutally honest it's a straight rip-off of Ringu ( 1998 ) only difference being instead of a mysterious video tape Chakushin Ari revolves around mobile phones . I suppose it had to happen , since mobile phones have become such an integral part of modern culture it was inevitable someone was going to make a horror film based around them & you know even evil killer ghost's have to keep up with the times & use mobile phones . The basic concept to me seems laughable as Chakushin Ari tries to make something as common & everyday as a mobile phone call scary & for me it fails totally . I'm sorry but seeing a mobile phone rings just isn't scary or a concept that sends shivers down my spine , that's basically what it boils down to & a big reason why I found Chakushin Ari so dull , lifeless & such a chore to sit through . The script by Minako Daira was based on a novel by Yasushi Akimoto & is throughly slow going , I found the whole story revolving around some sort of ghost who was wronged in someway when they were alive & wanting some sort of revenge old hat & the Japanese have flogged the idea to death & usually with considerably more success than Chakushin Ari . Then there's the ending , it's absolutely terrible & doesn't really make any sort of sense although maybe it's lost in the English translation . The ending is a complete mess that seems to have time travel , possession , ghost's & no sort of closure . The one thing I did learn from this film though is if a rotten zombie is walking towards you with the intent to kill you then hug it & say nice things to it , it'll work a treat . Director Miike is usually known for his more outrageous & gory films but here with Chakushin Ari he really tones it down , there's certainly no blood or gore or violence expect for a severed arm . To be honest there's nothing here we haven't seen loads of times before , there's the obligatory female ghost who walks funny & makes strange noises that every Japanese supernatural horror film must include . Been there , done it & brought the T-shirt . Things pick up a bit towards the end with a haunted hospital but it's never really revealed why the hospital is haunted or how a woman's dead body got there or how it's mobile phone battery hasn't run out in six months . Like most of these Japanese ghost films Chakushin Ari is filmed in muted colours & in a very simple sort of way , it just looks bland & forgettable although maybe that was the intention . Technically the film is alright , there's nothing here that's going to amaze anyone but it's reasonably well made for what it is . I must admit I really don't like subtitled films , I just find them a chore to watch & very distracting . The acting seems alright but since we never know what anyone is saying it's difficult to judge . Chakushin Ari is a tedious film that I really didn't enjoy at all , I found it a throughly boring mess with a less than inspiring central premise that were mostly rehashes of other similar films . The film proved popular enough to spawn two sequels Chakushin Ari 2 ( 2005 ) , Chakushin Ari Final ( 2006 ) as well as a Japanese TV series & a Hollywood remake .
Great attention grabbing title for an awful film . . .	Mexican Werewolf in Texas is set in the small border town of Furlough where Anna ( Erika Fay ) lives , her best friend is Rosie ( Martine Hughes ) & she has a Mexican boyfriend named Miguel ( Gabriel Gutierrez ) who are determined to track a beast down that has been terrorising the town , killing livestock & several residents including some of their friends . Local Mexican legends speak of the Chupacabra , an evil creature from myth & legend . Erm , I'm struggling now because not that much else actually happens . . . Written & directed by Scott Maginnis I won't beat about the bush here & simply say that Mexican Werewolf in Texas is awful , period . The script only ever mentions the word Werewolf once & the rest of the time it's referred to a Chupacabra , in fact I suspect this wasn't really conceived as a Werewolf flick at all . The ' Werewolf ' creature looks mostly hairless & more like some vicious dog , there is no reference to anybody changing during the full moon & it actually attacks during the day on a couple of occasions , there is no transformation scene & at the end when it is killed it doesn't change back into anyone either . To be honest apart from the title there's nothing here to indicate a Werewolf film at all & even then the title is just a rip-off of the highly popular An American Werewolf in London ( 1981 ) . This is the type of home made crap that I personally think is killing the horror genre , how long has it been since there was a true low budget horror classic like Dawn of the Dead ( 1978 ) , The Evil Dead ( 1981 ) , Halloween ( 1978 ) or Friday the 13th ( 1980 ) which were all made on shoe string budgets , maybe The Blair Witch Project ( 1999 ) but that's it in recent years & crap like Mexican Werewolf in Texas has absolutely no chance of ever being considered a classic . The character's are awful & things just happen around them , the dialogue is rubbish , the pacing is terrible , the story sucks & virtually sent me to sleep & as a whole this film is just crap , I'm sorry but I don't know how else to describe it . Director Maginnis does nothing to make this watchable , there's the annoying hand held camera type cinematography which could easily give someone a headache & quick ' blink & you'll miss something ' editing which just annoys & irritates in equal measure . It's not scary , there's no nudity , there's no tension or atmosphere & the special effects are awful . The monster really does look poor & it's no wonder Maginnis keeps it in the shadows or cuts his scenes so quickly you never get a good look at it . There's virtually no colour to the picture either , it's either almost pitch black or over saturated desert sand oranges which makes the thing an eye sore as well . The gore consists of some fake guts ( blink & you'll miss them ! ) , a few bloody wounds & a severed arm , big deal . With a supposed budget of about $300 , 000 I admit the budget was low but I simply refuse to accept that for making such a rubbish film , there are plenty of low budget horror flicks that make their meagre budgets go far . The whole thing has the look of a home movie , it has no style & is throughly bland & dull to look at . The acting sucks too although you probably already knew that . Mexican Werewolf in Texas will probably con a few people into renting / buying / watching it because they might mistakenly think it's a sequel to John Landis ' classic which it most certainly isn't & it isn't even a proper Werewolf flick either . Don't be fooled this is awful & I'm fed up of having to waste time / money on home made amateur crap like this .
" Frankly , I'm terribly worried . " Really bad mid 60's obscure horror .	Death Curse of Tartu is set in the Florida Everglades where Ed ( Fred Pinero ) & his wife Julie Tison ( Babette Sherrill ) are anthropology teachers who are educating some teens out in the field . They are supposed to meet up with Ed's mate Sam Gunter ( Frank Weed ( ! ) who is also listed in the credits as ' Animal Trainer ' ) who isn't where he ' s supposed to be , like a typical woman Julie begins to worry for no reason but it seems that she might be right to worry as they discover an ancient tablet of rock with some ancient writing on it which talks about an incident some 400 years ago when some local witch doctor named Tartu ( Doug Hobart ) died & put a curse on the land ( well , he probably put the curse on the ground before he died ) , the curse states that anyone who violates his burial ground will meet a horrible death at the hands of an animal , or something like that . Ed , being the level headed guy that he is , thinks it's nonsense but when two of his students Tommy ( Gary Holtz ) & Joann ( Maurice Stewart ) are attacked & killed by a shark he might have to rethink . . . Written & directed by William Grefe Death Curse of Tartu is quite simply one really bad film , it's as simple & straight forward as that . The script is a joke , it's awful it really is . For a start it is incredibly boring to sit through , there are so many drawn out scenes & sequences here it's conceivable the term ' padding ' was coined for this film while most of it is just dull people walking through the Everglades getting from ' A ' to ' B ' & not doing much when they eventually get there either . The 60's inspired dialogue is embarrassingly bad , did people really talk like this even in the mid 60's ? I have my doubts with lines like ' Cindy your a real drag ' inspiring bouts of laughter from me . Damn , I hate this film . The character's are poor , the whole film is utterly predictable & without any sub-plots extremely one dimensional & dull . Nothing is explained that well , the whole nature theme is muddled & has little impact & it lacks any decent exploitation elements . Death Curse of Tartu is an absolute waste of time with no redeeming features , do yourself a favour & don't bother . Director Grefe sure knows how to put his audience to sleep , this thing is so boring it makes a party political broadcast look exciting . There are constant boring shots of the Everglade area & some of it's wildlife . The murders are all committed by animals as in the curse but don't expect much violence or gore . There is one funny bit at the start though when a huge Python literally jumps out of a tree & wraps itself around someone , I didn't know snakes had the ability to jump sideways out of trees , did you ? I also have to mention the almost constant sound of drums in the background , after about an hour of it it was really getting on my nerves . The budget for this might not have been as low as one thinks , I mean it was hot in colour wasn't it . Then again considering what ended up on screen I'd imagine that's where most of the money went . It's a pretty shabby film set almost entirely in the Everglades & it has an awful soundtrack as well . The acting was poor & there's nothing else to say . Death Curse of Tartu is one seriously crap film , it's just that it's so slow & tedious to watch . The stupid , dull , boring & one track storyline doesn't help much either when I think about it . Not good folks , not good at all . Probably best to avoid this one .
Another totally crap ' Film to Die For ' .	The Hamiltons tells the story of the four Hamilton siblings , teenager Francis ( Cory Knauf ) , twins Wendell ( Joseph McKelheer ) & Darlene ( Mackenzie Firgens ) & the eldest David ( Samuel ) who is now the surrogate parent in charge . The Hamilton's move house a lot , Franics is unsure why & is unhappy with the way things are . The fact that his brother's & sister kidnap , imprison & murder people in the basement doesn't help relax or calm Francis ' nerves either . Francis know's something just isn't right & when he eventually finds out the truth things will never be the same again . . . Co-written , co-produced & directed by Mitchell Altieri & Phil Flores as The Butcher Brothers ( who's only other film director's credit so far is the April Fool's Day ( 2008 ) remake , enough said ) this was one of the ' Films to Die For ' at the 2006 After Dark Horrorfest ( or whatever it's called ) & in keeping with pretty much all the other's I've seen I thought The Hamiltons was complete total & utter crap . I found the character's really poor , very unlikable & the slow moving story failed to capture my imagination or sustain my interest over it's 85 & a half minute too long 86 minute duration . The there's the awful twist at the end which had me laughing out loud , there's this really big sustained build up to what's inside a cupboard thing in the Hamiltons basement & it's eventually revealed to be a little boy with a teddy . Is that really supposed to scare us ? Is that really supposed to shock us ? Is that really something that is supposed to have us talking about it as the end credits roll ? Is a harmless looking young boy the best ' twist ' ending that the makers could come up with ? The boring plot plods along , it's never made clear where the Hamiltons get all their money from to buy new houses since none of them seem to work ( except David in a slaughterhouse & I doubt that pays much ) or why they haven't been caught before now . The script tries to mix in every day drama with potent horror & it just does a terrible job of combining the two to the extent that neither aspect is memorable or effective . A really bad film that I am struggling to say anything good about . Despite being written & directed by the extreme sounding Butcher Brothers there's no gore here , there's a bit of blood splatter & a few scenes of girls chained up in a basement but nothing you couldn't do at home yourself with a bottle of tomato ketchup & a camcorder . The film is neither scary & since it's got a very middle-class suburban setting there's zero atmosphere or mood . There's a lesbian & suggest incestuous kiss but The Hamiltons is low on the exploitation scale & there's not much here for the horror crowd . Filmed in Petaluma in California this has that modern low budget look about it , it's not badly made but rather forgettable . The acting by an unknown ( to me ) cast is nothing to write home about & I can't say I ever felt anything for anyone . The Hamiltons commits the cardinal sin of being both dull & boring from which it never recovers . Add to that an ultra thin story , no gore , a rubbish ending & character's who you don't give a toss about & you have a film that did not impress me at all .
A sequel that's just as bad if not worse than the rubbishy original .	Horror 102 : Endgame is set in an old abandoned Insane Asylum where several high school / university students are staying as part of a school project field trip , however the care taker Owen ( Michael Moon ) tells of the asylum's dark past & that it is apparently haunted by the tormented spirits of it's previous abused inhabitants . Spooky eh ? Well none of that really matters as the brave young students are unfazed . Arranged by their mysterious lecturer ( whom none of them has ever met ) Mr . Jacobson he fails to show & the asylum goes into ' curfew mode ' where all the doors & windows are locked tight , trapped inside the run down asylum the students begin to realise that a killer walks amongst them as the bodies start to pile up . Who is the killer ? Why are they killing students ? Who even cares ? Not me . . . No this isn't the one hundred & first sequel to some obscure horror film it is in fact the first sequel to the less than impressive teen slasher with a ( terrible ) twist Horror 101 ( 2000 ) which I endured last week & thought was total crap so I really wasn't looking forward to Horror 102 : Endgame it's low budget straight-to-video / DVD sequel . Horror 101 was written & directed by James Dudelson who acts as producer here on this while he turns the writing & directing duties over to Ana Clavell who also edited the thing & whose only subsequent films are the absolutely dire Day of the Dead 2 : Contagium ( 2005 ) & Creepshow III ( 2006 ) which basically means he hasn't made a single even half way decent film . The original Horror 101 was rubbish so quite why someone felt a sequel needed to be made is a mystery & true to expectation Horror 102 : Endgame is maybe perhaps even worse than Horror 101 which is saying something . The two films have no real connection to each other , none of the original character's return & none of the events of the original are referred to either & apart from the obvious similarities with two sets of teenage character's being killed off by some killer there's nothing to connect the two films at all . Horror 102 : Endgame is your typical shot on a camcorder teen slasher set in a single isolated location that tries to spring a surprise with a Scream ( 1996 ) style twist ending although the twist makes no sense & I can't really figure out what the point of the plot is , there seems to be absolutely no reasoning behind anything that happens that makes any sort of logical sense . The script doesn't even try to give any plausible reason why these teens are staying at this asylum other than it's for some field trip the purpose of which is never revealed or explained . The character's are awful although at least there isn't a clichéd comic relief character , the killer's identity & motives suck & are just almost seemingly random & the pace is very slow as we are treated to almost endless sequences of these teens walking around dark corridors doing nothing in particular . One to avoid . The original Horror 101 was very notable for just how bloodless & tame it was in a PG sort of way & while Horror 102 : Endgame is slightly better in this regard it's still PG stuff . At least there's actually some blood splatter in this although none of the death's happen on screen & as such there's no real pay-off or reward for sticking with it . There's nothing scary here , there's nothing memorable here & there's a very flat & bland atmosphere that just makes the whole thing a chore to sit through . The film has reasonable production values but little in the way of style , apparently this old asylum has electrical problems yet after years of being shut down the ' curfew mode ' still works perfectly & on time too . Shot in Los Angeles . The acting by no-one of any note is terrible & character's reactions & decision making are awful although the script doesn't help . Horror 102 : Endgame is the sequel to a rubbish film that no-one wanted & amazingly is maybe even worse than the original which I didn't think would be possible . Two absolute stinkers & if you decide to watch both as a double feature good luck to you since your going to need it .
I am amazed at how much I disliked it .	Death Proof starts in Austin Texas where radio show host Jungle Julia Lacai ( Sydney Poitier ) & two of her friends stop off at a bar where they meet a guy who calls himself Stuntman Mike ( Kurt Russell ) who turns out to be a mad psycho who uses his ' death proof ' car to murder young girls & he intends for the three friends to be his latest victims . . . Written , photographed , co-produced & directed by Quentin Tarintino who also has a small role in it as the bar owner Warren I am amazed at how much I disliked Death Proof , I usually love grindhouse , exploitation , horror , action & cult trash along with being a fan of Tarintino's other films Kill Bill : Vol 1 ( 2003 ) especially but I really didn't like Death Proof at all . First of all it has to be said that Death Proof was released edited together with Planet Terror ( 2007 ) as Grindhouse ( 2007 ) which bombed in theatres so Mirimax decided to cut their loses & release both films separately with Death Proof getting the ' director's cut ' treatment which adds nearly thirty minutes of extra material & it's this extended director's cut that I am basing my comment on . My main problem with this version of Death Proof is that it's so slow & boring , virtually nothing & I mean nothing happens for the first forty minutes . You can switch Death Proof on forty odd minutes in & still basically pick up what's going on because almost everything that came before consists of annoying , mundane & very forced dialogue by pompous , unlikable self loving girls . I hate the way the character's in this speak , I suppose it's all very self referential & cool that feels very self conscious . The fact that Stuntman Mike only gets about five minutes of screen time doesn't help , his character is never developed & when the film finishes we know nothing more about him when it started . The other thing of note is that the second half of the film practically repeats the first half as it introduces a whole group of new character's after the first group have been killed off at the halfway mark & it also has a slightly different climax . Director Tarintino does a decent job here & he obviously pays loads of homages & rips-off the exploitation flicks that inspired Death Proof . From introducing scratches , pops , sparkle , repeated frames , skipped frames in the picture to abrupt cuts & there's even a portion of the film totally in black and white for reasons I can't figure out . To be honest these little exploitation touches don't work as they feel very deliberate whereas on genuine 70's exploitation it was down to technical limitations of the medium . Anyway who wants to see a film with scratches & poor edits ? Don't all the exploitation classics on DVD that have been remastered & cleaned up look better , are more enjoyable to watch & are popular because they look so good on new technology ? I admit there are some decent car stunts at the end but they are too little too late . I think Death Proof proves that Tarintino has a foot fetish , there are many , many shots of young girls feet throughout the film . There's not much gore or violence here , a severed leg , a couple of crushed faces , a bit of blood & that's it . No nudity either . Technically the film is good apart from those deliberate sound glitches , jump edits & print damage which sometimes makes it look like either your DVD player is broken or the disc is scratched ! It's well made & has that big budget look about it anyway although the use of loud annoying songs irritated me . The acting is alright although most of the girls really annoyed me , they all seem to have these horrible attitudes that just rubbed me up the wrong way . Death Proof was a huge disappointment for me , I went into it hoping to like it but after the first forty minutes which nearly put me to sleep I was just waiting for it to finish . An OK end but everything else is horrible , I honestly expected so much more .
Badly written , badly lit low budget horror comedy .	Stagknight is set in England where Brian ( Simeon Willis ) has been taken on a stag weekend by nine of his mates , an isolated cottage deep in the countryside for a paint-balling competition . However the owner of the cottage has other plans for them as she makes them chant an ancient spell ( don't ask ) which unleashes some some of Knights Templar demon known as a Guardian who protects a magical cauldron ( or something like that ) by killing everyone . As the paint-ballers numbers begin to fall rapidly the survivors must find a way to send the Guardian back to hell for good . . . This English production was co-written , co-produced & directed by Simon Cathcart who also played Sean & one has to say Stagknight is as bad as it sounds . The script by Cathcart & Robert Mercer tries to be funny & scary but fails miserably on both counts , the horror comedy genre is very difficult to pull off as there is a very fine line between being funny & just plain stupid & being scary & being anything but . There wasn't one single scene in Stagknight which I thought was funny , jokes revolving around people sat on toilets farting a lot or Asain character's speaking in funny accents or an old woman giving a guy a blow job or a character falling down a large hole & then someone else ' accidently ' dislodges a brick which drops on them or someone removing a dildo from his anus complete with a loud popping sound effect just scrape the bottom of the proverbial barrel as far as humour goes . The horror elements are no better , this large Knight dude show's up every so often & kills a few people but apart from that there's nothing here we haven't seen a million times before . This is just your average teen slasher with comedy character's who irritate rather than entertain . There's barely any gore , the kills are unimaginative & the story about ghostly Guardians & some rubbish about a magical cauldron just sucks . Director Cathcart has to be blamed for a lot of what I saw , besides the script being generic uninspiring crap it's so badly shot it's untrue . The version I saw was so dark in places there were times when the screen was virtually black & I didn't have a clue what I supposed to be seeing . The worst lit film since the notorious Humongous ( 1982 ) . The gore is virtually none existent , someone gets an axe in their chest , there's a bit of blood splatter , there's a decapitated head & someone is impaled on a spear . I don't think there's any nudity either , I can't remember any anyway . It's not scary or atmospheric & since it's so bloody dark & badly lit it becomes incredibly frustrating & annoying to watch . According to the IMDb Stagknight supposedly had a budget of about £1 , 500 , 000 which surprises me since it's a very badly made film with barely any CGI effects , no gore effects & no name actors . It's set entirely within some woods & I really can't see where all the money went . Also according to the IMDb Stagknight was shot in 2005 & presumably sat on the shelf for a few years which is no surprise since it's so bad . In fact I'm surprised this didn't go straight to the Sc-Fi Channel . The acting is nothing to shout about & the thick English accents are annoying . Stagknight is a poor moronic horror comedy slasher film that isn't funny or scary or gory & it's so badly lit half the time you can't see whats happening . Definitely not recommended .
Warning : This program contains Nudity , Sexual Situations , Violence and a Blackmailing - Suicidally - Homicidal - Pyromaniac - Sissy - Boy !	Out of all the films I could have chosen , it had to be this . When I was last in New York I went into a Times Square store and out of the hundreds of DVD's they had I chose Joel M . Reeds Bloodsucking Freaks ( 1976 ) and this , on a double feature DVD that also included Seeds of Sin ( 1968 ) , did I regret it ? Read on to find out . The film opens on an island ( near Milligan's Staten Island home ) where two lovers are walking along with a massive parasol seemingly made from paper , at one point he gives her the top of a weed as a gift . Out of nowhere Colin ( Hal Borske ) a retarded hunchback pops up and kills both of them for no reason at all . After the opening credits which are joined by some of the worst headache inducing music I have ever heard , at least it got me used to it as it's used constantly throughout the film , we are introduced to three couples . The wives are all sisters , Vicky ( Ann Linden ) and Ricard ( Fib LaBlaque ) , Veronica ( Eileen Hayes ) and Bill ( Don Williams ) plus Elizabeth ( Carol Vogel ) and Donald ( Richard Ramos ) . They each receive a letter from a lawyer , H . Dobbs ( Neil Flanagan ) that request a meeting so he can read their late father's will . Dobbs informs them that they must spend three days in their childhood home ' Crenshaw House ' and fill it with ' sexual harmony and marital love ' that it had never known because of the strained relationship between their father and mother . He informs the couples that the will is highly irregular but legal . After three days the inheritance will be settled . The couples are also told about the servants , Martha ( Veronica Radburn ) , Hattie ( Maggie Rodgers ) and the retarded Colin , who welcomes the couples by killing and biting chunks out of a rabbit in front of them . Later on that night whats left of the dead rabbit is found in one of the couples beds with a note that says ' blessed are the meek , for they shall inherit ' . This starts a series of events which end in gruesome murder and reveals dark family secrets . Co-written , photographed and directed by the talentless Andy Milligan . This is an absolutely horrible film in every way possible . Lets go through just some of it's faults . The music , it's awful and headache inducing . Sound , you can barely hear what characters are saying and certain scenes don't have any sound effects plus at certain points you can hear Milligan shouting out orders to his actors , oh and there's a constant hiss on the soundtrack throughout as well . The acting , probably among the worst I have ever witnessed . The very un-special effects , Colin pokes someones eye out in the opening sequence , it's the size of a tennis ball , the part where someone is tied down and has his stomach opened up with a saw looks really awful as are the various hands and legs that are chopped off . Photography , Milligan has absolutely no idea how to stage or film a scene , he regularly cuts the top , bottom or sides of peoples heads and faces off the screen and his camera jerks and shakes around like it's operated by someone who is constantly tripping over . There is also at least one scene so badly thought out and filmed that a crew member is seen . The film is often so dark you can't see whats happening , too . Editing , again some of the worst I've ever sat through , he seems to cut scenes before they've finished , cutting away while characters are in the middle of a sentence . The script , if there was one , credited to both Milligan and Hal Sherwood ( It took two people to write this ! ? ) is all over the place and is incredibly stupid . There is one unbelievably bad sequence where the killer follows a victim down into the basement , the killer walks right behind him , at one point the potential victim turns around . What does the killer do to avoid being spotted ? They duck down right in from of him , the killers close enough to give the guy oral sex yet he doesn't notice them , right in front of him . You have to see this sequence to believe it , I still can't believe what I saw . Bizarre sub plots just happen and then totally disappear , check the scene out when Richard has to borrow money from his brother Walter ( producer and co-writer Hal Sherwood ) , who turns out to be a gay priest who has had an incestuous relationship with his brother before he was married ! A strange scene that's there for no reason at all . Martha the housekeepers reaction to the first murder , she's more bothered by the fact that it's thrown her dinner schedule out ! There's load of insane dialogue as well , Patty and Martha discuss Colin , Patty says " if only I didn't beat him so hard " Martha sympathetically replies " you have to Patty , you have to ! " , delivered totally straight faced . And don't start me on how ugly the wallpaper looks throughout the house ! The only good thing I can think of saying is that the costumes look reasonable , for the time period it's meant to be set in . I could probably go on all day about how amateurish this is , but I think you get the idea . One to avoid unless your a serious masochist ! I didn't regret buying or watching it for a second , though !
Awful .	The Salena Incident is set in Arizona where six death row inmates are being transfered from the state prison for reasons never explained , while driving along the heavily armed prison bus gets a flat & the driver is forced to pull off the road . Then two blonde birds turn up & after seducing the incompetent prison guards manage to get the better of them , the six prisoners are released but in a shoot-out their getaway car is damaged leaving them all stranded in the middle of the Arizona desert . They decide to head to the nearest town , Salena several miles away & take the cops with them as hostage . Once they reach Salena they find it odd that the place is completely deserted with not one single other person in sight . They soon discover that the entire town has been killed by flesh eating aliens & they are firmly placed on the menu . . . Also known as Alien Invasion Arizona in the US on DVD & apparently having the working title Terror Town this rubbishy low budget sci-fi horror flick was co-written , co-produced & directed by Dustin Rikert & has no real redeeming features at all , to be frank The Salena Incident is the sort of film which gives films a bad name . The film could roughly be divided into two parts , the opening forty or fifty odd minutes focuses on the prisoners in a thriller feeling opening , the guards & the escape although it's pretty poorly written & staged stuff . The dialogue between the two blonde birds & the prison guards is so bad it's unintentionally funny as the two fit birds chat up the two not so fit prison guards . Funny stuff actually , unfortunately The Salena Incident is supposed to be a sci-fi horror film not a comedy . Then once the escaped cons & their prison guard hostages arrive at Salena it goes into sci-fi horror mode as the aliens turn up & start killing our clichéd character's off which is good because they are annoying . Look , the whole film sucks as it's badly written , thought out & made . I can't really be bothered to go into why but trust me The Salena Incident is awful on every level . As well as being just a bad , boring & stupid film The Salena Incident is also poorly made . The action set-piece scenes are awful , the aliens looks terrible & are never shown on screen at the same time as the human character's & as such it's sometimes difficult to tell what's happening . The special effects are poor too , the aliens look rubbish & the CGI computer effects are absolutely terrible as well . The editing is poor , the cinematography is poor , the sets are cheap & the whole thing is just an eyesore really . There's a bit of gore , there's some gunshot wounds , someone is ripped in half & a severed hand is seen . Obviously shot on a low budget The Salena Incident has low production values & looks cheap from start to finish . Filmed in Superior in Arizona . The acting is terrible from no-one I have ever heard of although the actress who plays the female doctor is pretty good looking . The Salena Incident is a rubbish sci-fi horror film that is terrible in just about every way , not worth 90 minutes of yours , mine or anyone else's time .
Another rubbishy sci-fi channel film .	Phantom Force starts a few hundred years ago on the open Aegean Seas as a ship's crew become possessed by something from another dimension . . . Jump to the present & about 30 miles outside Moscow where local TV news crews report that armed terrorists have seized a chemical plant & are holding up to 30 people hostage , some sort of special army unit lead by agent Mark Dupree ( Richard Grieco ) are sent in to ' solve ' the problem . Shortly after Dupree is summoned to see his boss Jack Bavaro ( Nigel Bennett ) who enlists him to lead a team that will be known as the ' Phantom Force ' who will target the categorically indefinable but which still poses a threat , still with me ? Good because this thing gets even better , actually I just lied about it getting better as I wanted to try & build it up a bit & make it sound just a little bit interesting . Sorry . Anyway , Jack informs Dupree about his inaugural first mission , a Russian submarine named ' Venture ' has been firing torpedo's off & destroying anything that goes near it & since it's located in the Aegean Sea Jack believes the subs crew discovered the Hades Stone which , in the wrong hands , can be used to open an inter dimensional portal & call an endless army of demon warriors to invade the Earth ! Scary eh ? Dupree , along with the rest of his hand picked team members , Ivan Cutler ( Jim Fyfe ) the computer whizz , Potts ( Tangi Miller ) the detective , Rebecca Weaver ( Jenna Guring ) a parapsychologist , Joe Murray ( Tyrone Pinkham ) the weapons guy & Kyle Hudson ( Atanas Srebrev ) who happens to be an expert in diving , sets off for the sub to try to prevent the Hades Stone from falling into the wrong hands . . . Directed by Christian McIntire Phantom Force is a load of crap & you can definitely understand why he tried to have his name removed from the film , unfortunately for him he was unsuccessful so everyone knows who to blame for making this . The script by Sam Wells is pure baloney of the highest order featuring nuclear submarines , ghosts , a evil stone that looks like it's a garden ornament ( one of those stone mushroom decorations ) & runs on gas ( ! ) , laser guns , alternate dimensions , a shadowy organisation , an evil Macedonian Commander ( Hristo Shopov ) & a bunch of terrorists . Everything gets lost , it has no real focus , the plotting & basic story are ridiculous , it make little sense overall if you think about it ( which writer Mr . Wells obviously didn't ) & for some bizarre reason it takes itself extremely seriously which was a bad idea as most of it comes across as laughable anyway . The thing is slow , boring & is deeply uninteresting , it has terrible character's whom have no background at all apart from Potts whom gets a lot of background even going as far as having not one but two flashbacks all to herself which I simply don't understand because no-one else gets anything at all , what did she do exactly ? Sleep with the writer ? Lets not go there shall we . The climax is very weak & lets just hope the Phantom Force is disbanded ! Phantom Force has nothing by which I can recommend it by , basically it's terrible . Director McIntire does a reasonable job but as a whole Phantom Force is both bland & forgettable ( & the sooner I forget it the better ) . Surprisingly some of the CGI effects are actually quite good , while the rest are just crap . There is no excitement or tension or scares or anything really . The only gore is when a guy is cut up with a medical saw , mostly off screen unfortunately although there is a severed arm involved & a quick decapitation . I was amazing to see that Phantom Force had a budget of about $1 , 400 , 000 as that sounds like a pretty decent pile of cash , where did the money go exactly ? The acting is poor from everyone . Phantom Force is crap , plain & simple . It's muddled , confused stupid nonsense that I can't see many people enjoying , I certainly didn't . One to avoid .
More rubbishy outdated moral issues raised in the most boring way .	Quincy M . E . : Women of Valor starts as unlicensed midwife Olivia Allen ( Lynn Hamilton ) is approached in the street by a woman who begs her to help deliver her friends baby , against her better judgement Olivia agrees but there are complications & the baby suffers from breathing problems . Olivia takes the baby to Charrington Hospital but dies while Doctor's try to revive it , since Olivia is unlicensed & has no medical training the D . A . decides to go ahead with a murder charge on the assumption that if the baby had been delivered in a hospital it would still be alive . Meanwhile a woman is transfered from Charrington while in labour but the baby dies in the ambulance en-route , concerned about the issues she is witnessing Dr . Katherine Reed ( Elizabeth Huddle ) ask's the county coroner's office for independent help , Dr . Asten ( John S . Ragin ) puts his best man Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) on the case . . . Episode 20 from season 8 this Quincy story was directed by Georg Fenady & I have to say Women of Valor is rubbish & coming straight after the brilliant Murder on Ice ( 1983 ) it is even more of a disappointment . I personally like the Quincy episodes where he has to solve or prove a crime using his detective skills & medical expertise & conversely I hate the episodes where Quincy barely features & the entire show is hijacked by some awful , dull , irrelevant & outdated moral issue . Here the script tries to argue the case for midwives in California , unfortunately here in the UK we have always had midwives so the basic message is totally lost & irrelevant over here as well as many countries around the world . Add that to the fact that times have changed in America too & I would suggest Women of Valor is one of the most redundant , pointless & when viewed today meaningless Quincy episodes ever & believe me it's up against some strong competition especially during the generally awful season eight . Quincy is barely in it & Women of Valor focuses on the character of Dr . Katherine Reed & her troubles as her association with Olivia causes her all sorts of problems , cue lots of boring personal drama of the dullest kind . There's not much to comment on Women of Valor , it's bland & shot in a pretty dull way . Strangely this one doesn't feature Quincy's wife Emily at all despite being the episode after they get back from their ill fated honeymoon featured in Murder on Ice . The acting is alright but I really hate the way Quincy is getting less & less screen time , almost like he is being forced out . Women of Valor is rubbish , when it's good I love Quincy as a show but I'm not blind to it's bad episodes of which there are a fair few especially during season eight & when it's bad damn is it bad ! Disappointing in all aspects .
Another awful Quincy episode from the dreaded season eight .	Quincy M . E . : Whatever Happened to Morris Perlmutter ? starts as seventy-two year old Violet Watson ( Louise Lewis ) is shot dead in her own home by a burglar , her sister Eugenia ( Rosemary DeCamp ) finds the body & briefly sees the killer . Los Angeles coroner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) does the autopsy but he has few clues for Lt . Monahan ( Garry Walberg ) to go on , Quincy recognises Violet as a stage actress from the 30's & at her funeral an eccentric old man named Morris Perlmutter ( Keenan Wynn ) show's up . A friend of Violet's & fellow actor he gets a big acting job on telly but confesses to Quincy that he has trouble remembering his lines & seeks help for which Quincy turns to his wife Dr . Emily Hanover ( Anita Gillette ) for advice . . . Episode 23 from season 8 this Quincy story was the penultimate episode of the final season & was directed by Sam Egan , personally I think this is almost as bad as the next episode The Cutting Edge ( 1983 ) but is saved by a slightly more likable story & the fact Quincy gets about six minutes of screen time rather than just the five ! I had high hopes for Whatever Happened to Morris Perlmutter ? after a decent start where a unknown burglar shoots an old woman & Quincy is put on the case , I though & indeed hoped we might get a return to form after a generally terrible season eight & have a good old fashioned murder mystery where Quincy has to use his detective skills & unique medical expertise to solve the murder & identify the killer but no such luck I'm afraid . Whatever Happened to Morris Perlmutter ? turns into yet another moralistic Disney type happy ending people overcoming the odds horrible thing , predictably this is all about old people & their worth to society . It tries to make out that just because someone is old doesn't mean they are senile or in any way lesser human beings , right that's really what I want to watch when I sit down & watch an episode of Quincy . Not . The murder aspect of the story seemed like an afterthought , there are about three scenes in the entire show which deal with it & it's never followed through to it's conclusion . Quincy merely tells Sam that he has the proof for Monahan that the guy is guilty & that's it ! We never see the guy arrested or if he admits to it or denies it or what happens . In fact if they ever bring Quincy back the first show they should make should be called Whatever Happened to Violet Watson's Killer ? Well , it's just a thought . . . Nothing much of any interest happens in this episode , it's totally forgettable & unremarkable . Again Klugman barely gets any screen time , you can see how the writers are trying to involve his wife Emily in everything he does although Keenan Wynn as the curiously named Morris Perlmutter puts in a spirited performance . Whatever Happened to Morris Perlmutter ? is another terrible Quincy episode from the generally terrible season eight , the second to last ever episode & the last episode Monahan , Sam , Brill & Asten appeared in since they didn't make it into the final episode The Cutting Edge .
Drearily dull horror film .	After the bizarre opening on screen caption that reads " THIS FILM SHOULD BE PLAYED LOUD " and the credits we are introduced to total loser Reno Miller ( director Abel Ferrara as Jimmy Laine on the credits ) and his girlfriend Carol ( Carolyn Marz ) . They live in an apartment in New York , along with rock chick Pamela ( Baybi Day ) . Reno is an artist who's currently working on a painting for gallery owner Dalton Briggs ( Harry Schultz ) , but the everyday stresses and strains of living in New York are starting to affect his relationship with Carol , and his all round mental stability . They can't afford to pay the bills , or their rent and they constantly argue . One day a punk-rock band called the Roosters move into the apartment next door and constantly perform and listen to rock songs . Reno finally snaps and buys himself a ' Porto-pak ' which he can strap around his waist and plug his drill into it for power , this was obviously made before the cordless drill was invented . He then goes round New York killing homeless bums and drunks with his drill . And , and well that's it really . Starring and directed by Abel Ferrara this is pretty painful to sit through . He constantly uses awful rock music which was sending me mad , let alone Reno . There's one or two decent gore scenes , Reno's first victim spurts blood all over the place , and a cool scene where Reno drills some drunks forehead . Reno also cuts a dead rabbit up with a knife if that's your thing . There are a couple of scenes of nudity including a brief lesbian shower scene that's there for no reason whatsoever . The script by Nicholas St . John is far too talky for my liking and lacks any kind of consistent story , basically it's a bit of a boring mess . Filmed on location on the streets of late 70's New York it has a grimy feel to it . With an exploitative title such as Driller Killer I thought it was going to be a gory slasher film like Friday the 13th ( 1980 ) but it's far from it . A real chore to sit through , don't bother .
More low budget independent crap that's not worth a second of your time .	Urban Nightmare starts as Voodoo Dogs gang leader Terence Smith ( Walt Slowe ) discovers his Grandmother dead , she had been in the middle of a Voodoo ceremony & the caring kid that Terence is he decides to steal her book of magic & use it for himself . . . Detective Mike Rogers ( writer & director Tom Breedlove ) is investigating the so-called strip club robberies in which strip clubs are robbed , obviously . However these thieves leave behind lots of dead bodies as well , along with Satanic pentagrams written with their victims blood at the scene . Terence & his gang , Shenessa Grant ( Amy Mitchell ) , Keesha James ( Regenia Michelle ) , Tyrone White ( Abraham Spigner ) & Jerome Whales ( Kevin Lamont ) are responsible for the crimes & Detective Rogers gets lucky with a lead & knows they are but can't prove it , yet . At the scene of their latest robbery the Voodoo gang brutally murder a stripper named Kathy Ann Rider ( Kerry White ) in from of her fiancé Officer Johnny Ray Crane ( Richard " Rummy " Rumfelt ) & he swears vengeance which at first seems unlikely when Terence cuts his head off in another gruesome Satanic ritual but the demon he was offering the sacrifice to isn't pleased & brings Officer Crane back from the dead & it's now just whether Crane will catch up with the Voodoo Dogs first or Detective Rogers , either way they're in big trouble . . . Written , directed & starring Tom Breedlove Urban Nightmare is just another minuscule budget piece of horror crap that has virtually zero entertainment value . The script annoys , the basic idea is pretty sound but nothing is done with it as the exploitation elements are severely lacking , it's boring & has to feature some of the most irritating character's & dialogue ever . The dialogue is awful & simply having your black character's say ' Mother F % ^ % $ ' as many times as you can is lazy , insulting , offencive , unnecessary , stereotypical , extremely repetitive & bordering on racist , in fact by the end of the film I could virtually guess what they were about to say & on at least three occasions I got it exactly right , just think of the most simplistic dialogue you can & add a few swear words in strategic places . The whole thing is stupid , makes little sense & is a real chore to sit through at 90 odd minutes ( not 120 as the IMDb states , thank god ) . The demon & sacrificial aspects of the story are both vague & tenuous to say the least while peoples motivations are totally incomprehensible . Also while I will suspend my disbelief for few seconds & buy the assumption that someone could staple their head back onto their neck stump with an office stapler I refuse to accept that it would rejoin your neck muscles so you could move your head again , it just wouldn't . Then again maybe I'm thinking about this more than I should & more than the scriptwriter did , in fact I know I am . . . Director Breedlove does an OK job considering that the budget for this must have been small to say the least , it's actually a reasonable looking film although there are plenty of day-for-night shots towards the end as it's supposedly nighttime & dark but no-one seems to driving with their headlights on ! There's no scares , shocks , excitement , exploitation , atmosphere or anything else that might have saved Urban Nightmare from being the useless piece of cinematic crap that it undoubtedly is . Forget about any decent gore , there's a decapitated head , a neck wound , someone has their heart pulled out & their are some gunshot wounds plus a mouse is pulled in half at the start . With an estimated budget of about $100 , 000 this is poverty row stuff all the way . Don't expect to be impressed because you will be disappointed . The acting was poor & why do these black guys swear so much ? Is that really the sort of image that they want to portray ? Urban Nightmare is a pretty poor attempt at a horror film , there really isn't anything positive I can say about it I'm afraid . One to avoid .
A must for insomniacs .	Mary Reilly is set in Victorian London where Mary Reilly ( Julia Roberts ) is a housemaid to a Dr . Henry Jekyll ( John Malkovich ) , he treats her & the rest of the servants well so she is relatively satisfied with her life . However , the calmness of the household is broken when Jekyll starts to stay out all night , he then says he will be collaborating with an assistant named Mr . Edward Hyde ( John Malkovich ) on his experiments & he should be treated as they treat him . Reilly meets Mr . Hyde who turns out to be a bit of a bad lad , meanwhile she has secret affections for her master Dr . Jekyll & soon realises they are both one & the same person . . . Directed by Stephen Frears I will openly admit right here & now that Mary Reilly bored me stiff , I honestly wanted to switch it off & go to sleep but in the fairness of this comment I decided to endure the final 40 minutes . The script by Christopher Hampton was based on the novel of the same name by Valerie Martin which itself obviously took inspiration from the Robert Louis Stevenson novel The Strange Case of Dr . Jekyll and Mr . Hyde , who was it exactly that thought telling the story of Dr . Jekyll and Mr . Hyde from the perspective of his housemaid was a good idea ? No offence but it sounds lame just thinking about it & sure enough the finished film is total crap that I personally found ways to hate it on many levels . From the absolute tedium of it all to the snails pace , to the awful romance between the main character's & the slushy sentimental drama to the fact it's one of the most boring films I've seen . I didn't like anyone in it , I didn't like the way the makers have taken a decent horror themed story & turned it into some horrible tedious romance & the lack of any horror or scares just sinks it without trace as far as I'm concerned . By the way did I mention it was boring ? Director Frears does alright , to give the film credit where it deserves it the production design & look of it are fabulous . This would give any period Hammer Horror flick a good run for it's money , then again I suppose you can stage a film like this when you have nearly 50 million dollars as your budget . Apparently Tim Burton was set to direct this but decided to make Ed Wood ( 1994 ) instead , he might have actually injected some horror & mystery into the plot while still retaining the Gothic romance just like he did with his excellent Sleepy Hollow ( 1999 ) . There's no real horror or scares in Mary Reilly , it has a nice fog enshrouded look but little else . Animal lovers beware , there are shots of eels being killed & skinned , being the old romantic that he is Mr . Hyde takes Mary to a slaughter house & again there are various animal carcasses strung up being skinned & gutted along with various organs in buckets & strewn across the floor . A man is also killed with the end of his walking cane in the films most violent scene . I am amazed this had a budget of near $50 , 000 , 000 , it doesn't look like it although it's undeniably well staged & made . According to the IMDb Roberts got paid $10 , 000 , 000 for this , well she's terrible in it & her accent is awful . Shot on location in London , Scotland & in Pinewood studios . Generally speaking though there's a great cast here including Malkovich , George Cole , Kathy Staff , Michael Gombon & Glenn Close as the owner of a London whore house . At the 1997 Razzie Awards Mary Reilly was nominated for two , Julia Roberts as worst actress which she should have won & Stephen Frears as worst director which considering the film looks alright is maybe a bit harsh . Mary Reilly is in my opinion a terrible film & it's as simple & straight forward as that , when I watch a film I want to be entertained & not bored out of my skull & that's just the way it is . Thank god I saw it on cable TV & didn't spend any of my hard earned money on it . Mary Reilly sucks & she should have stuck to being a lowly servant girl .
Very disappointing .	Monkey Shines starts as athlete Allan Mann ( Jason Beghe ) is hit by a truck while out running , he is taken to hospital where Dr . John Wiseman ( Stanley Tucci ) operates & saves his life but unfortunately Allan is left as a wheel chair bound quadriplegic who only has movement in his neck & face . Obviously depressed after the accident his girlfriend Linda ( Janine Turner ) runs off with Dr . Wiseman & Allan attempts to commit suicide , his scientist friend Geoffrey Fisher ( John Pankow ) finds him & saves him . In an attempt to help Allan Geoffrey contacts animal trainer Melanie Parker ( Kate McNeil ) & ask's her to train one of his lab monkey's to act as Allan's helper which she does . The monkey called Ella makes a big difference to Allan's life & acts as his hands but Geoffrey doesn't mention the tiny fact that he has been injecting Ella with a serum made from human brains in an attempt to increase her intelligence , it proves a success beyond Geoffrey's expectations & has horrifying consequences . . . Also known as Monkey Shines : An Experiment in Fear this was written & directed by George A . Romero & I really wanted to like this , I like most horror fans love what Romero did for the genre during his early career with stonewall 100 % solid gold classics like Night of the Living Dead ( 1968 ) , Martin ( 1977 ) , Dawn of the Dead ( 1978 ) , Creepshow ( 1982 ) & in my opinion the criminally underrated Day of the Dead ( 1985 ) so I really , really wanted to like Monkey Shines which is unusual for me because I generally go into films expecting nothing . Monkey Shines was Romero's first major studio picture for Orion & his script was based on the novel by Michael Stewart & I have to say I was disappointed in just about every aspect of it . The most long-lasting impression of the film I have is that it is unbearably slow , the first 45 minutes is so boring it's untrue as it only features Allan being crippled & him be given the monkey . The character's are unlikable , the dialogue is dull , no-one is believable & the relationships are just not quite there . Then there's the fact that this is meant to be a horror film , well there's absolutely no horror in it until the final 20 odd minutes & I was just sitting there watching Monkey Shines & was literally debating whether to turn it off & go to sleep & I can tell you it was a pretty close thing but I just about managed to stick it out . The story has some interesting points & nice ideas & that makes what ended up on screen even more disappointing , the little sub plot between Geoffrey & his slimy boss comes to absolutely nothing for instance & lazy contradictions because they fit the script conveniently like Ella being able to inject someone with poison using a needle while the next time she has the opportunity she doesn't know how anymore . I wasn't keen on the oh so happiest of happy endings either as a so called quadriplegic has surgery which ' cures ' him & he literally rides off into the distance with the pretty girl to presumably live happily ever after . Director Romero knows how to make a decent looking film & he manages to inject some tension into the climatic ending when Monkey Shines actually tries to be a horror film , unfortunately the preceding 90 minutes are as dull as dishwater & contain some unintentionally funny scenes . The love making scene between Allan & Melanie is hilarious , he can move anything below his neck so she positions her womanly bits over his face & her orally pleases her in a truly hilarious looking moment . The monkey , who is credited as ' Boo ' , for the most part isn't scary or frightening & is a bit too cute for my liking , it's well trained through I'll give it that & it acts better than most of the human cast ! This being a Romero film & having Tom Savini listed in the opening credits as special make-up effects man I was hoping for some good gore , unfortunately there's barely a drop of blood in it . There's a cut hand , a little bit of blood in a surgery scene & a silly Alien ( 1979 ) inspired effect in a dream sequence . I was amazed to see this had a budget of about $7 , 000 , 000 , where did all the money go ? There's no special effects , no action scenes , no big name stars & although it's competently made it's nothing special . I mean Day of the Dead had half the budget of Monkey Shines & it looks the more expensive film . The acting isn't anything special & the monkey Boo gets the ' best actor ' honours in it . Monkey Shines was a huge disappointment to me , I was expecting so much more . I really liked the overall story but it's so slow , so devoid of any sort of horror & just plain stupid on too many occasions . I hate to say it but Monkey Shines is basically the beginning of the end of Romero's midas touch in the horror genre .
" Your not only telling me I was raped & murdered tonight but my Grandfather was eaten ? " Terrible .	Left in Darkness starts on the 21st birthday of parentless Celia ( Monica Keena ) who goes along to a frat party with her best friend Justine ( Jessica Stroup ) as way of celebration . However a scumbag guy named Doug ( Chris Engen ) & his mates spike Celia's drink & when she's suitably unconscious Doug rapes her . Celia wakes up only to see her own body in the corner of the room , obviously shocked she runs downstairs where she meets her dead Grandfather ( Tim Thomerson ) who tells her that she is dead & stuck in a place somewhere between heaven & hell & that a load of soul eating zombies are trying to , well , eat her soul . Can she survive death , even though she's already dead if you know what I mean & get to heaven where good little girls like he go ? Directed by Steven R . Monroe I personally hated Left in Darkness & it's as simple & straight forward as that . The script by Philip Daay & Jane Whitney tries to be different but ends up being a load of old tosh , it's slow , it's boring & it introduces so many obscure ' rules ' it's hard to keep track of things & even harder to care . Firstly there's the sanctuary bit , the bit about where the zombies are & aren't allowed , the touching the mirror , being able to affect certain objects & situations , some nonsense about a dead persons light that gives protection , a guardian angel dude who becomes the focus of the most obvious ' twist ' ending ever , Celia all of a sudden having to complete tasks , zombies not being able to touch her unless she touches them & more besides . Now don't get me wrong as I love something a bit different , something where you have to think & something totally original but I also hate bad films & ladies & gentlemen I suggest to you that Left in Darkness is a very bad film . All these silly elements are thrown together with one new rule being introduced every few minutes as the previous one is totally forgotten , I found it incredibly tedious to watch , I couldn't get into the story because of all the stupid shifts in the narrative , the film lacks any decent horror elements & as a whole I have no fondness for Left in Darkness at all . Director Monroe does OK although it's neither any better nor any worse than the dozens of low budget straight-to-video horror films that seem to be around at the moment . There's zero atmosphere , there's zero tension & zero gore . I couldn't get over he ridiculous sounding fact that zombies were trying to kill someone who was in principal already dead , the more I think about this film the more I want to lower my IMDb score for it . Technically the film is fine , it's reasonably well made with no obvious problems . Shame about the over-elaborate & confused script which tries to throw some new pointless ' rule ' in every few minutes . The acting wasn't that great either , leading lady Keena was easy on the eyes but I doubt she'll get much work because of Left in Darkness . Left in Darkness is crap , I'll give it because I will openly admit that it does at least try to do something a bit different , it's just a shame it all turned out so terrible . Definitely not recommend .
Seen it all before in a virtually bloodless slasher . . .	The Clown at Midnight tells the story of teen Kate Williams ( Sarah Lessaz ) who recently discovered she was adopted , her real mother an opera singer named Lorraine Sedgewick ( Vicki Marentette ) having been brutally stabbed to death supposedly by a jealous lover after a performance of Pagliacci , a tragic play about a lovesick clown . Kate has been having very vivid nightmares & hallucinations but life goes on as they say . . . Seven college students including Kate have signed up to help clean up the old Walker Theatre which the head of drama Ms . Gibby ( Margot Kidder ) has had a grant to reopen , it's not long before Kate is getting freaked out because the Walker is the very theatre where her mom was murdered by a psychotic in a clown costume & he's on the prowl again as he locks the theatre up & begins to kill the teens off one-by-one . . . This Canadian production was directed by Jean Pellerin & guess what ? It's rubbish . The script by Kenneth J . Hall seems to take itself very seriously & has all the usual clichés , the teens keep splitting up for trivial reasons , the killers motives are thin to say the least , it's utterly predictable & it doesn't come together that well at the end either . How many more dull , lifeless films about annoying American teens do we need ? There is a distinct lack of gore , in fact this is one of the driest slashers I've seen & considering it was made in 1998 when special effects were very advanced there's no excuse , it wouldn't be so bad if the character's made up for it but they don't because their all rubbish & the dialogue is poor too . Then there's the generic run down theatre location which is just a bore of a setting & not used to any great effect at all . You know it's over 40 minutes before the clown kills someone , that's 40 minutes of dullsville I'd rather be doing something fun like watching paint dry . Then there's the confused ending in which three people end up dressed exactly the same as the clown , why ? For a start why did George go back & get dressed like the clown when he could have been saving Kate ? Why did he need to dress as the clown anyway ? It's pointless . Then there's the none too shocking revelation that the initial suspect didn't do it , wow what a surprise . He claimed he was trying to help them , yeah right & he did a good job didn't he as 5 people were killed & I didn't see him anywhere frankly until the pathetic twist ending which is so obvious it's embarrassing . You know who the killer is the very first time he appears on screen it's that obvious . To make matters even worse the only half decent looking cast member Liz Crawford is the first to be killed , although it takes a while to get there . . . Director Pellerin does nothing to liven things up , the films well made & professional but very dull , flat & lifeless . The stalk scenes are poor , it's not scary , there's no tension as it's all so clichéd & obvious & there isn't even any decent gore in it either . You know slasher films have moved on since 1978 when Halloween came out but you'd never have guessed it watching Clown at Midnight . The violence & gore is tame with no imagination to the kills , someone gets a spear through the stomach , someone is strangled , someone is thrown off the roof , someone is electrocuted , someone is impaled on what looks like spikes although I don't know why someone would keep a load of spikes under a trap door on a theatre stage & someone is decapitated , seen it all before & done better as well . Technically the film is pretty good actually & the best thing that can be said about it overall is that it's well made with decent production values . Filmed in the real life Walker Theatre in Winnipeg in Canada . The acting isn't anything special but it's alright , I didn't like anyone particularly but Liz Crawford was quite hot & she gets her top off as well . I take it Chirstopher Plummer & Margot Kidder need the money to agree to appear in this . Clown at Midnight is a dull slasher film with a low body count , next to no gore , annoying teen character's & a very predictable twist ending which I predicted within 30 minutes , poor all round then really . There are many good slashers out there you really shouldn't be wasting your time or money on this .
Some interesting individual parts but as a whole it's poor .	Blood Tide starts as newly wed couple Neil ( Martin Kove ) & Sherry Grice ( Mary Louise Weller ) are using their honeymoon time to search various Greek islands in an attempt to find Neil's missing sister Madeline ( Deborah Shelton ) . Following a clue Neil & Sherry arrive on one such Greek island where they ask the mayor Nereus ( Jose Ferrer ) who says he hasn't seen her & they should both leave , about two minutes later outside Neil spots Madeline who is on the island doing some painting in an old church . Also on the island is a treasure hunter named Frye ( James Earl Jones ) & his woman Barbara ( Lydia Cornell ) , while diving & searching for ancient treasure Frye sets some explosives in an underwater cave which blow a hole in some ancient stonework from which a slimy flesh eating sea monster is unleashed . . . This English Greek co-production was co-written & directed by Richard Jefferies & after skimming through the other user comments here on the IMDb for Blood Tide the general consensus appears to be that it's boring , unfortunately it's my duty to report that those comments are pretty much spot on & Blood Tide is an extremely difficult film to sit through in one sitting without losing the will to live . The script by Jefferies & Greek exploitation filmmaker Nico Mastorakis who also produced Blood Tide has a somewhat promising premise with a slimy ancient virgin eating ( how does it know when a woman's a virgin exactly ? ) sea monster , unfortunately the slow moving script would rather deal with dull character's wandering about , sunbathing & their problems then get stuck into some serious slimy ancient virgin eating sea monster action . Bummer . Large chunks of Blood Tide pass with quite literally next to nothing happening , there's some vague talk of ancient rituals & sacrifices , there's the usual warnings & doom-mongering from the superstitious locals , Frye is only interested in finding his treasure while Neil & Sherry do very little apart from show up & pester Madeline & provide the American audiences someone to relate to . To it's credit there's the smatterings of a good interesting monster film here but there's too much tedious padding & too little monster action . Director Jefferies does alright here , the film was obviously shot on location in Greece & it provides a lush & nice looking backdrop on which the dull action occurs . There is only one short scene in Blood Tide which show's the sea monster , if you want to see it fast forward to the one hour mark exactly because that's when it rears it's ugly head . To be fair to it I thought it looked alright but then again you only see it for about five seconds so you can't scrutinise it too much . There's not much gore either , there's a couple of dead bodies , some blood stained water , a few chunks of flesh & a severed foot all of which amounts to very little . Technically the film is better than it has any right to be , it's reasonably well shot in some nice looking Greek locations & it has decent cinematography & good production values . The cast is also surprisingly impressive boasting James Earl Jones , Jose Ferrer & Martin Kove all of whom probably only agreed to be in it because of a nice free holiday to Greece . Blood Tide had the potential to be a good solid sea monster flick , unfortunately it's really tedious to sit through & by the time the brief action starts right at the end most sane people will have switched off or over . Even die hard monster fans might have a hard time making it all the way through this one .
" I don't know what kind of friend this jerk is to you but he ate my spleen . " Absolutely terrible sequel to the original classic .	An American Werewolf in Paris follows the fortunes of three young American tourists , Andy ( Tom Everett Scott ) , Chris ( Phil Buckman ) & Brad ( Vince Vieluf ) who arrive in Paris where Andy decides he wants to bungee jump off the Eiffel Tower , whatever turns you on I suppose . They hide in the Tower & when the coast is clear Andy rigs his bungee cord up but as he is about to jump he hears footsteps belonging to a attractive young woman named Serafine ( Julie Delpy ) . Serafine also wants to jump off the Tower but for a different reason to Andy , to commit suicide . Serafine jumps & Andy throws himself after her & manages to catch up with her on the way down , grab her & deposit her on the ground without leaving a single scratch on her while he recoils back & knocks himself out on a beam . When he comes round Andy is determined to find her which doesn't take long as she just happens to be a nurse at the very same hospital he has been taken too , gee what a coincidence . Andy pesters her for a date to which Serafine eventually agrees , Andy quickly falls in love with her & when one of her friends Claude ( Pierre Cosso ) says Serafine will be at a club that night the three friends go . However Andy soon discovers that Serafine is a Werewolf & her friends are Werewolves , Andy is drawn into a underground world of Werewolves & a sinister plan to overthrow mankind using a serum which lets those infected turn into a Werewolf at any time . . . Executive produced , co-written & directed by Anthony Waller I think An American Werewolf in Paris fails miserably at just about everything that it sets out to achieve . The script by Waller , Tim Burns & Tom Stern tries to be many things & ends up as a complete mess . First it tries hard to be a comedy with lots of stupid inappropriate slapstick that isn't funny in the slightest , Andy knocking himself out on a beam , a Doctor emerging from a room knocking Andy to the ground , a zombie trying to whistle & their eyeball popping out , a bumbling cop & a scene in a café where Andy blows a condom up in front of Serafine because it's supposed to be bubble gum . It also tries to mix in horror elements with the Werewolves , massacre of American teenagers , rotting undead zombies , human hearts in blenders & mad scientist serums . There are also brief snippets of action in here as well with a psychically impossible bungee jump from the Eiffel Tower , a few shoot outs , plenty of hand to hand fights & a chase through a train . An American Werewolf in Paris fails to combine these genres effectively , everything feels out of place , very awkward & odd especially if you have seen the brilliant original An American Werewolf in London ( 1981 ) which is vastly superior to this in every possible way . I was never quite sure what I was supposed to be watching , whether I was supposed to be laughing , screaming or on the edge of my seat & in the end I did none of these things at any point . An American Werewolf in Paris moves along at a fair pace & at it's most basic provides sporadic glimmers of entertainment but not packaged into one coherent film . The characters are dumb & unlikable , the words stereotype & clichéd come to mind . One more thing is it true that everyone in Paris speaks English but with a French accent ? With a budget of about $22 , 000 , 000 An American Werewolf in Paris is technically OK but the special effects aren't the best & the Werewolves themselves look like the fake CGI computer graphics that they so obviously are , Rick Baker's Oscar winning animatronic & puppet effects in the original look far better even with a 17 year gap in special effects development between the two films . The gore is tame by comparison to the original as well , just a few severed limbs , a few boring Werewolf attacks & a couple of rotting zombies , yawn . A word about the music which I hated , full of rock & rave type crap director Waller once again tries to pander to the teenage audience along with he casting of handsome teenage leads who can't act . Because An American Werewolf in Paris flirts between lame comedy & lame horror it fails to build any sort of rhythm or atmosphere either way & almost comes across two different films pasted together , by a chimpanzee . Forget about this pile of crap & watch the original again instead & remember how great a film that is . Definitely one to avoid .
Didn't do much for me at all .	Dark Water is set in New York where Dahlia Williams ( Jennifer Connelly ) is undergoing a bitter divorce from her husband Kyle ( Dougray Scott ) with custody of their young six year old daughter Cecilia ( Ariel Grade ) becoming very nasty . Dahlia & Cecilia move into an apartment on Roosevelt island , it's a bit of a dump but it's all she can afford & Cecilia seems to like it so why not ? Mother & daughter move in & notice a damp spot on the ceiling which gets increasingly worse , strange things begin to happen & Dahlia starts to question her own sanity . Soon it seems that the odd events might be down to supernatural causes . . . Directed by Walter Salles this was a Hollywood remake of a Japanese horror film also called Dark Water ( 2002 ) , this Hollywood remake actually stays pretty faithful to the original & I had to say that I was rather unimpressed with it . The script by Rafael Yglesias is just so dull & lethargic , the first three quarters of Dark Water feels like some melodrama with the arguing Dahlia & Klye trying to get points over one another in the custody battle of Cecilia with really dour issues surrounding Dahlia moving into a dump of an apartment just to add to the tedium . I'm sorry but a damp patch on the ceiling , the fact it's dark all the time & the lift is a bit temperamental are hardly the stuff of nightmares , is it ? The fact a tap turns itself on is hardly going to tear anyone's nerves to shreds is it ? I suppose a damp patch on your own ceiling might cause some nightmares but not for the same reasons the makers of Dark Water would like ! At over 100 minutes Dark Water feels like it goes on forever , while I understand the main aim of the script was more psychological than visceral & that the makers were trying to get into Dahlia's mind & not make it totally clear what was going on but I just wish they had done it in a slightly less boring & slightly more interesting way . The ending is also disappointing , besides being less than thrilling the twist is underwhelming & isn't put across in a very concise way . Overall I just thought it was a depressing bore from start to finish with sub soap opera melodramatics rather than ghostly goings on . Director Welles turns in a stylish film but why is it so dark all the time ? Fair enough it's about water & the constant overcast rainy weather is supposed to reinforce that but it just gets so dull & depressing to watch . There's absolutely no colour in Dark Water at all , I am sure this is deliberate but it's not a choice that I think looks particularly good or appealing . There's a few decent scenes & it has a certain gloomy atmosphere but it still feels more like a soap opera than a horror film . Welles also likes his dizzying overhead shots too , there's loads of them . With a supposed budget of about $30 , 000 , 00 Dark Water was a well funded film , to be honest I can't really see where all the money went . Sure it's well made but there aren't any big stars in it , the special effects are low key & it's set mainly in the same location . Filmed in New York , Los Angeles & Ontario in Canada . The cast do a decent job & the performances are fine . Dark Water is more of a dreary rain soaked melodrama than a ghostly fright fest & that for me kills it . The ' Unrated ' version is actually shorter than the theatrical one & despite adding an alternative dream sequence removes certain scenes .
" Isn't someone going to answer that phone ? " Terrible sequel .	976-EVIL 2 : The Astral Factor starts at Slate River college where the dean Mr . Grubeck ( Rene Assa ) has just murdered pretty blonde teenager Lori Glazier ( Karen-Mayo Chandler ) which brings his murder count to five girls , this time however a drunk bum named Turrell ( George ' Buck ' Flower ) is witness to his crime & Grubeck is arrested . Grubeck is given his statutory one phone call which he uses to phone 976-EVIL a direct line to hell , Grubeck is given powers which enable him to astrally project himself while asleep & is also given the name of the drunk who meets a very sticky end that night . Meanwhile pretty blonde teenager ( notice a pattern here ? ) Robin ( Debbie James ) is contacted by 976-EVIL survivor Spike ( Patrick O'Bryan reprising his role from the original ) who knows that Grubeck is using the Satanic hot-line to murder & generally be antisocial , by a strange coincidence Robin used to work for Grubeck who developed a crush on her & he still has it . . . Directed by Jim Wynorski , whose very name when attached to a film sends shivers down my spine , 976-EVIL 2 : The Astral Factor is a terrible sequel to a fairly decent original . The script by Erik Anjou plays the concept far more like a standard teen slasher ( as if we didn't already have enough ) rather than trying to develop the demonic phone-line to hell idea as in the first , instead they take the 976-EVIL premise & simply use it to give some supernatural powers to a homicidal maniac who wants to kill lots of dumb & annoying teenagers , yawn . The whole things a bit of an embarrassment really , it's predictable , the character's really are stupid & gullible , the exploitation elements are lacking & as a film it provides little in the way of entertainment . The opening scene features a naked blonde in a shower for no reason other than show off her breasts , she is chased by Grubeck & then just lies there & waits for him to kill her which he does by pulling a rope which releases a fake stalactite to impale her ! It doesn't get much better either apart from a couple of decent car chase scenes & one or two nice kills , overall there is very little to recommend here I'm afraid . Director Wynorski still had the nerve to use his real name on the credits when he made this back in ' 91 instead of hiding under his usual Jay Andrews pseudonym , the film is reasonably well made but it doesn't have any style or the visual look of the first film . It's pretty bland & forgettable stuff while the gore is also disappointing , someone is impaled , someone has a garden trowel stuck in them in a direct rip-off , sorry homage to Night of the Living Dead ( 1968 ) , a few after the fact slit throats , & in the films best moment a guy is hit by a speeding truck & he just explodes everywhere , excellent . 976-EVIL is also one of those films where it's fun to try & spot all the continuity errors as there's plenty of them . Technically the film is OK , although I'm sure that truck at the end changes between a tanker trailer & box trailer . . . Now on to the best aspect of 976-EVIL , Miss USA finalist Debbie James . Frankly she is one pretty hot looking young lady & makes the film a lot easier to sit through that's for sure , she can't act but she sure looks good & nobody's perfect are they ? As for everyone else the acting sucks including original cast returnee O'Bryan . 976-EVIL : The Astral Factor is an awful film from the ever awful Jim Wynorski , it didn't do anything for me & I think the original 976-EVIL ( 1987 ) is a far superior film that tried to do something with the concept whereas this doesn't .
Toothless mystery thriller horror slasher .	Horror 101 starts as a psychology class at a high school taught by Allison James ( Bo Derek ) are told that the term is coming to an end & that their final assignments must be presented soon with the very last class due for late one Thursday night . The eight students prepare to present their work but one of their number Mark ( Josh Holland ) fails to turn up , the teacher Miss James also mysteriously goes AWOL before the local class psycho Brian ( Justin Urich ) starts behaving weirdly while carrying around what looks like a blood soaked bag . The worried students realise the school is empty , they are alone & as more of them begin to disappear that one of them might be a killer . . . Produced & directed James Glenn Dudelson I am not quite sure who Horror 101 is meant to appeal too or what the makers were trying to achieve . The script apparently took three people to write it which I find simply incredible as it's so predictable , routine & utterly toothless . Horror 101 is an uneasy & unsatisfying mixture of genres from mystery as the students begin to disappear for no apparent reason & no-one knows who is responsible including us the audience , there's a horror element with a typical group of annoying American teens being stalked in a very familiar high school setting & there's a thriller edge as well with various attempts at plot twists & turns which don't come off at all . I mean for instance we never even find out what was in the bag anyway so what was the point of bigging it up so much ? Unfortunately none of these genres are done justice , the mystery elements are rubbish & the red herrings are too obvious the plot & it's outcomes are fairly easy to predict , there's absolutely no horror content worth noting as not one single character is killed ( there's a scene at the start in which someone is killed but this turns out to be part of a film that a class of students are watching ) during the film & not one single drop of blood is shed while the thriller side of things don't work either as seemingly endless scenes of annoying teen character's wandering around high school corridors looking for their lost friends becomes really dull & isn't exciting , suspenseful or thrilling in the slightest . Basically Horror 101 tries to please several sorts of potential viewer buts ends up as a complete disaster that has no edge , no blood , no gore , no sex , no nudity , no thrills , no surprises & a really rubbishy ending that if you can't predict your already dead . Set entirely in a high school the constant bland corridors become very boring & repetitive , the lighting is too bright & there's seemingly no attempt by the filmmakers at atmosphere or scares . Except for a very small scene in a film being watched at the start there isn't a single drop of blood in the entire film , no-one is killed on screen & there's no violence or gore . The character's are annoying & clichéd & are very stupid in their decision making & they all deserve to die which unfortunately never happens so that also ends the film on a downer . Production wise the film actually looks reasonable although there's no real style or class to it , it certainly looks better than a lot of low budget horror crap out there that look like they were shot on a camcorder . The only cast member of note is a small cameo Bo Derek who's most famous role was probably baring all in 10 ( 1979 ) alongside Dudley Moore . Horror 101 is a really poor , boring , uneventful horror mystery thriller that is a total waste of time & doesn't satisfy or deliver on any level . I have no idea who would enjoy this predictable tamer than tame film . Followed by Horror 102 : Endgame ( 2004 ) which I hope is a big improvement on Horror 101 since I'm going to watch it soon .
Poorly made supernatural I Spit On Your Grave . . .	Necromancer is set in Los Angeles where three friends Paul DuShane ( Stan Hurwitz ) , Carl Caulder ( Edward A . Wright ) & Allan ( Shawn Eisner ) break into Professor Charles DeLong's ( Russ Tamblyn ) office to steal the answers for an important test , what they don't know is that they are not alone . Fellow student the attractive Julie Johnson ( Elizabeth Kaitan ) is finishing some work when she spots Allan who isn't meant to be there , it's not long before Paul shows up & decides he wants a bit of fun with Julie . Paul has Carl hold her down while he pulls out a butterfly knife , threatens to cut her , cuts her underwear off & rapes her as Carl & Allan look on . The next day & Julie is distraught , she confides in her best friend Freda Lurch ( Rhonda Dorton ) who says she must tell the police but Julie refuses . Later that day Freda spots an advert in a local newspaper advertising ' Revenge ' , after making some enquiries herself & Julie find themselves at an innocent looking house owned by a sinister woman ( Lois Masten ) who casts a magical spell to summon a demon to extract vengeance against those who have wronged Julie , but at what cost . . . Directed by Dusty Nelson Necromancer is just about worth a watch but not much else . The script by William T . Naud doesn't quite know what it wants to be , is it a supernatural horror ? Is it a rape / revenge film ? Is it exploitation ? Is it a drama dealing with the after effects of a rape ? The film becomes lost in it's various sub-plots about character's relationships with each other , the strange guy Ernest ( Waide Aaron Widdle ) who pops up every so often , the blackmail aspect & the breakdown of Julie's relationship with her boyfriend Eric ( John Tyler ) . All these bitty underdeveloped little story lines don't quite come together & have minimal impact . The film moves along at a fair pace but it can drag a bit in places . If it's one thing I don't really enjoy watching it's sexual violence towards women , it's merely a personal view & I am no prude but watching a woman scream as she is raped at knife point doesn't do anything for me at all . Most of the male character's are nasty , blackmailing , jealousy ridden idiots who think women like being raped . Director Nelson tries to convey the impact rape has on someone but in a silly film with such a weak script , bad acting & poor character's there's no credibility to any of it . The sporadic supernatural elements are naff , the red monster looks very rubbery & it's eyes are glowing green blobs . The film is poorly made , has no tension , excitement or atmosphere & is also very bland , flat & forgettable . Forget about any decent violence or gore , every single death except one is off screen . The one that isn't has someone get a knife in their throat & then in their forehead , apart from that Necromancer is as dry as a bone . Necromancer must have had a really low budget & it shows , the whole production looks cheap throughout . The acting was poor & since Necromancer deals with the sensitive issue of rape it makes it stand out even more . Necromancer really isn't a very good film , it's just about watchable & I think most would make it to the end but overall this is pretty poor stuff all-round . Not particularly recommended .
Not good .	Deadly Invasion : The Killer Bee Nightmare is set in the small Californian town of Blossom Meadows where Chad ( Robert Hays ) & Karen Ingram ( Nancy Stafford ) along with their three children have recently moved to after buying a local farmhouse & apple orchard . Also moving into Blossom Meadows are far more unwelcome African killer Bees that are sweeping across the US , although essentially the same as the common European Bee they are much , much more aggressive & attack in thousands . Chad soon realises that the primary nest is in his apple orchard & after local teenage idiot Tom Redman ( Ryan Phillippe ) shoots it with a shotgun the killer Bees get very upset & attack the nearby farmhouse where the Ingram family barricade themselves in as the killer Bees swarm outside trying to get in & sting everyone to death . . . Co-written & directed by Rockne S . O'Bannon this is yet another nature runs amok tale complete with some flavour of the month environmental message . The film opens with some outdated ( since this was made in 1995 outdated by almost fifteen years ) text about the advance of the African killer Bee across the US & that ' this COULD be a true story ' although considering the following eighty odd minutes on reflection that's a real LOL moment . Killer Bee films are rarely any good , I point you towards efforts such as Bees ( 1998 ) & Killer Bees ! ( 2002 ) although there are one or two good ones around such as The Deadly Bees ( 1967 ) & The Savage Bees ( 1976 ) . Unfortunately Deadly Invasion : The Killer Bee Nightmare is one of the crap ones , the pace is slow , the plot is stupid even for a film about killer Bees & the Bees are quite passive here & not as scary or threatening as they should be ( e ) . I just see these Bees which are presented as they are in reality ( no mutations or genetic experiments gone wrong ) as no real threat & I don't understand why they would surround a house & then spend all night trying to kill the people inside , there's no explanation for it other than they are killer Bees . Some of the plot doesn't make any sense like the way these Bees manage to disable the phone lines , how did they manage that exactly ? There's a shot of them crawling over the phone line but not ' doing ' anything to it that would account for the phones going dead . Also when the Bees do get inside the house they don't really attack anyone inside anyway so what's the point ? This is basically an isolated location cut off from civilisation with stranded human beings trying to survive some sort of creature or threat type film with little in the way of a credible threat . The film is slow & the first three quarters of the film is very talky with lots of very forced speeches about Bees & killer Bees by all sorts of Bee experts & Government officials , who would have thought the ordinary Bee could be so dull ! At one point some Bee expert giving some Bee speech says that Bees are prepared to die to defend themselves since when they sting something they die but that got me thinking do Bees actually know that they will die if they use their stings ? I wouldn't have thought so , why would they know ? If they did know would they really sting something ? Who knows but it's a more interesting topic than this film . Bees are not really scary & this film isn't scary either & it's all rather dull predictable stuff . Made-for-telly this looks pretty cheap although it's reasonably well made , there's no CGI work or special effects . The most notable thing about this film is that it was one of Ryan Phillippe's earliest roles & he has since gone to bigger & better things in Hollywood . Deadly Invasion : The Killer Bee Nightmare is a pretty poor killer Bee film that tries to stick to reality in the way it presents it's Bees which just doesn't work at all , a really slow moving dull made-for-telly ' Creature Feature ' that has no redeeming features that I could see .
I didn't like it .	The Devil's Den starts late one night as friends Quinn ( Devon Sawa ) & Nick ( Steven Schub ) pull up outside a strip bar called the ' Devil's Den ' & pop inside to enjoy the entertainment . Unfortunately their night turns sour when the strippers turn out be flesh eating ghouls , Nick is wasted while Quinn barely escapes with his life , on his quest for survival he is joined by Government assassin Caitlin ( Kelly Hu ) supernatural monster fighter Leonard ( Ken Foree ) & waitress Candy ( Karen Maxwell ) who decide to put an end to these ghoul's unsociable flesh eating habits once & for all . . . Directed by Jeff Burr under the pseudonym of Andrew Quint on the actual film but Andrew Dunt on the DVD / video box Devil's Den is one of those films that if you have zero expectations & a high pain tolerance then you might be able to sit through it in one go but if you are a little more discerning & like a decent story & good gore then Devil's Den isn't going to impress you . The unoriginal , predictable & rip-off ridden script by co-producer Mitch Gould basically steals it's main premise from From Dusk Till Dawn ( 1996 ) & the underrated Vamp ( 1986 ) with it's strip club populated by vampire like ghouls , Devil's Den goes for comedy as much as horror with some really bad one-liners & dialogue . The character's are rubbish & just plain stupid , you know in zombie films where the only way to kill the walking dead is to shoot them in the head yet character's still spray bullets in their bodies well here it is said the way to kill a ghoul is to chop it's head off yet no-one ever does despite the abundance of samurai swords . I was shouting at the screen ' just cut their heads off ! ' but they never did . The story is a complete rip-off & it has one of the most obvious & predictable twists I can ever remember seeing . This is pretty poor all round & I don't care that it was low budget , I didn't like it & it's as simple & straight forward as that . I wasn't impressed & anyone with any sort of standards won't be either . Director Burr obviously didn't like the finished result & his name was taken off the credits for which I don't blame him one little bit . . . There's nothing scary here & I found the gore disappointingly lacking , sure there are a couple of gory moments but overall the opportunity for bloody carnage & mayhem has been largely ignored for instance whenever someone is shot there's never any blood . There's a scene when a ghoul puts her hand through someones chest & pulls his heart out , there are a couple of decapitations , a few severed limbs & some feeding scenes & surprisingly little else . For those interested there's a fair amount of naked breasts on show . With a supposed budget of about $1 , 500 , 000 this has reasonable production values & is well made on a low budget level but the effects could have used a bit more work . The acting was pretty bad although Foree is always watchable but what on earth was he wearing at the start ? They looked like two tubes stuck up his nose giving him oxygen ! Devil's Den in my opinion is a poor low budget horror comedy that's a complete rip-off of much better films , not recommended .
Reasonable idea , rubbish execution .	The Insatiable is set in Los Angeles where Harry Balbo ( Sean Patrick Flannery ) witnesses a female Vampire named Tatiana ( Charlotte Ayanna ) killing a homeless guy in an alley , he becomes obsessed with her & trying to track her down in order to kill her . However after Harry does track Tatiana down he cannot bring himself to decapitate her so he sets a trap for her , Harry lures her back to the apartment block he is the supervisor of & traps her in a reinforced steel cage in the basement . There Harry hopes to be able to convince Tatiana to change her murderous ways but it proves harder than Harry first anticipated & whatever happens Tatiana still needs fresh blood every night otherwise she will die . . . Co-written & co-directed by Chuck Konzelman & Cary Solomon this is yet another cheap looking low budget shot on a camcorder type horror film that litter video shelves everywhere , the one thing The Insatiable has going for it is that there is a reasonable idea behind it but ultimately it fails to distinguish itself & ends up being crap . The script by Konzelman , Solomon & J . R . McGarity has an intriguing twisted love type premise that could have made for a decent light hearted horror film , unfortunately due to a near two hour running time which is very hard to get through in one sitting , a pace so slow I almost fell asleep on several occasions , a serious lack of dramatic incident , several little sub plots which go nowhere , the general incompetence of the LA police & some poor character motivation The Insatiable turns out to be a waste of time & money . I suppose there are lots of little subtle things going on in the script , the way a prisoner can manipulate the captor , how someone can fall in love with someone evil hoping to change them , the futility of wanting something / someone you can't have & the rather more socially relevant consequences of slacking off work ! I don't really know why films like The Insatiable exist , sure there might be a few people out there who take to the story & character's more than most but I would imagine they are few & far between & I firmly believe the majority of viewers will be both throughly bored & annoyed by watching The Insatiable in just about every way . I was lead to believe that the Insatiable was a horror film but apart from the fact that there's a Vampire in it you would be hard pressed to know most of the time , there is virtually no gore , no horror , no scares , no atmosphere , no tension & that just has to be a little bit disappointing . Apart from a ripped off arm there's no blood or gore , there's no nudity either . There's no real style here , it's pretty much point & shoot all the way . I just don't really understand who The Insatiable is meant to appeal to . Is it hardcore horror fans ? Is it the oddball romantics out there ? Is it the casual DVD buyer / renter ? I can't really see it satisfying anyone to be honest . For those of you that make it to the end credits the temptation will more than likely be to switch the damned thing off as soon as you can but if you keep watching there's a bit more of the film that runs during them . In fact there's a scene with a letter which we are meant to read but since the version I saw was pan and scanned & the image was on the extreme right most of the letter was cut off at the side of the screen ! If you keep watching even further after the credits have ended there's a seemingly pointless shot of a cute fluffy white rabbit . With a supposed budget of about $700 , 000 The Insatiable is reasonably well made with decent if unspectacular production values , set in Los Angeles but according to the IMDb shot in Austin in Texas . The acting is alright & there are a couple of eyebrow raising cast members , god knows how they got Sean Patrick Flannery to appear in this & it's always nice to see Michael Biehn of The Terminator ( 1984 ) & Aliens ( 1986 ) fame & I also have to say that he's bloody aged well hasn't he ? I mean The Terminator was made over twenty years prior to The Insatiable yet he still looks almost exactly the same ! The Insatiable could have been good , it had potential & an unusual storyline but a snail's pace , a jumbled up plot , an almost two hour running time that feels more like two days & overall one has to say The Insatiable is not a film that I have much fondness for .
" What about that guy named Guy ? " Rubbish low budget horror .	The Choke starts as a rock band known as The Choke prepare for a gig at a nightclub called ' Club 905 ' owned & run by Guy Johnson ( Andrew Parker ) . Lead singer Dylan ( Sean Cook ) & guitar player Mike ( Jason McKee ) plan to tell the other band members , bass player London ( Brooke Bailey ) & drummer Nancy ( Tom Olson ) , that they are both going solo & their services won't be needed any longer . Once at the club Dylan prepares but Mike doesn't show up & the gig turns into a disaster . Then just as the band think things couldn't get any worse they find a dead body in the cellar , that all the doors have been locked so they can't get out & that they can't trust anyone as a mysterious killer begins picking them off one-by-one . . . Produced & directed by Juan A . Mas The Choke is a standard by-the-numbers teen slasher that really doesn't have anything going for it . The script by Jessica Dolan & Susannah Lowber ( not too many horror films out there penned by ladies . . . ) has some surprisingly good character's in it & some nifty dialogue but while it's much better than a lot of modern shot on a camcorder type horror in that respect it's so slow & boring that even a few interesting character's can't come anywhere close to saving it . As one would expect all the usual teen slasher clichés are used , from the isolated location the victims can't escape from , the cast of good looking teenagers who keep splitting up , a few murders & a really poor twist ending that tries to mimic something like Scream ( 1996 ) & be surprising but doesn't make a whole lot of sense when you think about it logically ( they couldn't have done some of the things they were supposed to ) & to make matters even worse I guessed who the killer was fairly early on & even though I don't want to boast I was spot on . Then there's the fact that the makers of The Choke felt that it's audience would be entertained by showing endless ( well it feels endless while watching it ) scenes of teenagers walking around dark corridors doing nothing in particular , I am sorry but there is only so many scenes like this that I can take before it starts to become tedious . The kill count is low , at first they all decide to stick together ( good idea ) but then they all just randomly decide to split up & go their separate ways ( bad idea when there's a killer on the loose ) , the pace is lethargic , the kill scenes are unimaginative & to top it all off the twist ending is poor . Director Mas does alright , the film looks OK for the most part although there are the odd occasions where he uses some annoying post production editing technique like slow motion or frame skipping . The gore levels aren't really up to scratch , there's some blood splatter , a guy with a hole in his chest , a few dead bodies & someone impaled on some metal poles . Most of the kills happen off screen with the axe kill at the end a good example of the film not actually showing anything . Since the film is about a rock band there's quite a rock orientated soundtrack with some truly horrible , horrible rock songs used on it . I am sorry rock fans but to my ears this crap is just noise pollution . It's not scary , there's no real atmosphere & the lack of blood & gore is just inexcusable when the rest of the film is so bad . With a supposed budget of about $1 , 000 , 000 The Choke is well made with reasonable production values , it looks cheap to be sure but not as cheap as many low budget horror films look . Shot in a place called Spokane in Washington apparently . The acting is one of the films strongest points as it's generally pretty good all round , I mean no-one is going to win an Oscar but it ain't half bad . The Choke is a throughly routine Scream style teen slasher that has one of the weakest twist endings ever & a criminal lack of blood , gore , violence , nudity & dead bodies . I mean if a slasher hasn't got any sex or gore then what's the point ? Those are the only things that the average slasher is worth watching for , right ?
Very disappointing Doctor Who DVD documentary .	The Tunnel Effect is a 15 minute long documentary featured on the Doctor Who DVD of Robot ( 1975 ) , Tom Baker's first story & focuses on how designer Bernard Lodge created the iconic opening sequence & the diamond Doctor Who logo . To start Lodge gives a bit of background on himself & how he became a graphic designer at the BBC before he reveals the thought process & making of the titles for the William Hartnell , Patrick Troughton & Jon Pertwee eras which he also designed & created before he goes into more specific detail about the Tom Baker titles although half of the sequence was already created for the previous seasons Jon Pertwee opening titles . Now , this could have been a great documentary as it features the man himself , his thoughts on the sequence , the original elements used & how he did it . Unfortunately that's precisely where The Tunnel Effect disappoints , Lodge obviously knows what he is talking about after over half a century as a graphic designer & he is just far too technical . I don't consider myself stupid but this just totally lost me , the way he uses words & terms which anyone who doesn't have a background in either film or graphic design will find very hard to understand & follow . Lodge talks like he assumes everyone will automatically know & understand the terms he uses which , again call me stupid if you want , I simply didn't . All I could really gather is that the title sequence was made using ripped up polythene bags ! The Tunnel Effect is probably the weakest documentary featured on the brilliant range of classic Doctor Who DVD's , it's not the makers fault it's Lodge's . I'm sorry but I just didn't understand it at all & I've seen it twice now , a really wasted opportunity & compared to how Sid Sutton talks on Synthesizing Starfields when he discussed the star-field title sequence which would eventually replace Lodge's tunnel you can see why I feel that way .
" This is just a filthy pigment of my diseased imagination . " Unscary & unfunny comedy horror .	Haunted Honeymoon is set in the 1930's & starts in a radio studio where ' Manhattan Mystery Theatre ' is going out live , actor Larry Abbot ( Gene Wilder ) & his co-star Vickie Pearle ( Gila Radner , Wilder's then wife & her last film before she died ) are soon to be married . However the engagement to Vickie has set a screw loose in Larry's head & he often can't control himself on-air . The shows sponsor Charlie ( Lou Hirsch ) is about to fire him when Larry's psychiatrist Brother Dr . Paul Abbot ( Paul L . Smith ) assures Charlie that he can cure Larry by literally scaring the condition out of him when the entire Abbot family meet up together at their large ancestral mansion to celebrate Larry's engagement . As the guests begin to arrive strange things start to happen , Larry's Aunt Kate ( Dom DeLuise ) talks of a Werewolf , a family member ( Roger Ashton-Griffiths ) is murdered shortly after being told the contents of rich Aunt Kate's will , Larry begins to start seeing ghosts & quickly discovers not everything is as it appears . . . Staring , co-written & directed by Gene Wilder this is one tragic mess of a film , just about a complete failure on almost every level . The script by Wilder & Terence Marsh is supposed to pay homage to the old dark haunted house mysteries from the 30's like The Cat and the Canary ( 1939 ) among others . Unfortunately it also tries to mix other genres as well , comedy , musical & horror , quite simply it doesn't work in the slightest . The comedy elements are so unfunny I couldn't believe it , I did not laugh once during this film . It tries far too hard with all out slapstick , comedy sound effects & sequences which probably looked OK on paper but ended up being far from OK in the finished product . Scenes of Wilder trying to pass a dead body off as a living person by dancing with it in front of two idiotic cops ( Billy J . Mitchell & R . J . Bell ) is embarrassing to watch , or a scene in which Wilder is sitting on top of a stuffed moose head hiding from a snake is just dumb & Dom Deluise in drag as Aunt Kate is a truly hideous & laugh free image . Not one single moment of supposed comedy in Haunted Honeymoon worked for me , the jokes are far too drawn out & predictable . The mystery elements are better but are all but lost amongst the lame attempts at humour & nothing is explained , the killer is revealed but how he achieved certain things are unclear like them walking down a wall & those crazy mirror effects . There is even a brief musical interlude as Vickie & Aunt Kate perform a little number , once again it just comes across as embarrassing to watch . I also hated the ending , it makes a mockery of everything that precedes it & is just lazy & clichéd . One area in which Haunted Honeymoon does succeed is with it's good atmosphere , the period production design & sets are excellent & really capture the feel of those old horror mysteries . The cinematography & special effects are good & generally speaking Haunted Honeymoon is very well made with that Hollywood polish about it . The acting is pretty bad by all involved including Wilder whom I usually like , perhaps he was more concerned about behind-the-camera activities as director rather than acting in front of it , Dom Deluise is highly annoying & irritating as Aunt Kate . As far as I'm concerned Haunted Honeymoon is a complete failure as either a horror mystery or a comedy & I just can't see what sort of film goer this would appeal too & enjoy it . Haunted Honeymoon was Wilder's last directorial effort to date which says it all really , you have been forewarned !
" I loved only once in my life , it ended horribly . " Poor even by Naschy standards .	El Retorno de Walpurgis , or Curse of the Devil as it's more commonly known amongst English speaking audiences , starts in Medieval Europe where Irineus Daninsky ( Jacinto Molina under his usual Paul Naschy pseudonym ) has a sword fight with some evil spawn of Satan bloke & ends up decapitating him . That night the evil blokes wife Elizabeth Bathory ( Maria Silva ) & some Satan worshippers hold a sacrificial black mass but are rounded up by Daninsky & his men , as Elizabeth is burned alive at the stake she puts a curse on Daninsky & all future Daninsky's . Centuries later & Waldemar Daninsky ( Jacinto Molina again ) accidentally shoots a Bathory descendant which sets the curse in motion . A gypsy witch ( Elsa Zabala ) holds yet another black mass in which some strange guy dressed head to toe in black has his wicked way with various naked women , hey all this gratuitous nudity is an essential part of the story telling process . One of the women Ilona ( Ines Morales ) is discovered unconscious lying in the middle of the road by Daninsky & his servant Maurice ( Fernando Sanchez Polack as Fernando S . Polack ) . They take her back to Daninsky's castle to nurse her back to health , Daninsky's maid Malitza ( Ana Farra ) is suspicious of her . One night Ilona pulls some sort of animal skull out & bites Daninsky's nipple with it . From that moment on Daninsky is cursed to turn into a Werewolf at every full moon & kill , things become even more complicated when he brutally kills Maria Wilowa ( Maritza Olivares ) the young sister of Kinga ( Fabiola Falcon ) the woman he has fallen in love with . . . Directed by Carlos Aured I thought El Retorno de Walpurgis was a very poor film , both technically & conceptually . The script by star Jacinto Molina is a mess , a dull boring mess as well . After a fairly good & exploitative opening few minutes it quickly goes downhill for the remainder of it's duration . The film feels extremely choppy , characters come & go far too readily , the gypsy , Ilona & the policeman to name but three . No one is given any sort of meaningful character development apart from Daninsky ( talk about giving yourself all the best lines ) & I found it almost impossible to care about anyone or anything . Even though El Retorno de Walpurgis only lasts for 80 odd minutes uncut it felt much longer & I actually started to go to sleep towards the end . The editing is very poor , the film cuts & moves all over the place & at one point a sequence is edited in such a way that it appeared to me that Daninsky wasn't the Werewolf when in fact he was . On the positive side El Retorno de Walpurgis is a handsome film throughout with nice production design , impressive detailed period sets & costumes . Don't expect much blood or gore despite what you read as it's not exactly going to make anyone lose any sleep . A few bites , a scythe through someones body , an impaling & a decapitated head at the start . The blood itself looks very fake , in fact it looks a lot like red paint . There is a fair amount of nudity as well but again it's nothing that's going to amaze or shock you . Forget about the great looking artwork on the DVD / video box as El Retorno de Walpurgis has to feature one of the weakest Werewolves in horror film history , he looks more like a teddy bear with fake perfectly white plastic fangs complete with cute little semi circle ears sticking out the top of his head , bless ' im . The acting seemed poor & the rubbishy English dub probably doesn't do it any favours . Overall I was very disappointed by El Retorno de Walpurgis , I usually really like these cheap Euro exploitation films but I didn't dig this one at all . Despite a good opening sequence & nice period production design there is nothing by which I can recommend El Retorno de Walpurgis as a piece of enjoyable entertainment . Probably one to avoid .
Worst one of the series & a pretty crud film all round .	Class of Nuke ' Em High 3 : The Good , the Bad and the Subhumaniod picks up where Class Of Nuke ' Em High Part II : Subhumanoid Meltdown ( 1991 ) finished , the mutant squirrel is blown to kingdom come by the bomb disguised as an Acorn & the Tromaville Institute for Technology is left in ruins . Ace reporter for the Troma Tech Times Roger Smith ( Brick Bronsky ) learns that his Subhumanoid girlfriend Victoria ( Leesa Rowland ) is pregnant , the big day arrives & Victoria gives birth to twins although misguided genetic scientist Professor Holt ( Lisa Gaye ) & evil corporate guy Dr . Slag , PHD ( John Tallman ) steal the first twin & disappear before the second is born . Roger is unaware that Victoria gave birth to twins & happily thinks he has only one son who he names Adlai ( Brick Bronsky again ) & brings up to be a caring person , however Dr . Slag calls the other twin Dick ( Brick Bronsky again , again ) & raises him to be just plain evil . Both twins are fully matured within two years & soon discover the other's existence , Dr . Slag & Professor Holt want Adlai to join forces with Dick & combine their subhumanoid powers to do their own evil bidding . . . Co-written & directed by Eric Louzil I personally thought Class of Nuke ' Em High 3 : The Good , the Bad and the Subhumanoid was far worse than either parts 1 or II , everything that made those films even mildly watchable & amusing is lacking here & it's back to normal service as far as Troma goes . The script by Louzil , Stephen Gerard , Lloyd Kaufman , Carl Morano , Mark F . Rosling , Matt Unger & Jeffrey W . Sass is more of a comedy than a horror , in fact there is very little horror here . It commits the ultimate sin for a comedy , it simply isn't funny . It's stupid , moronic , dumb & tedious but it's definitely not funny . Close-up shots of womens bums who then fart is about as sophisticated as this juvenile nonsense gets , a scene when a genetically created mutant Werewolf thing is killed by hitting it with rolled up newspaper's like you would an ordinary dog ( you would ? ) , a lot of the jokes make fun of the previous film & it starts to parody itself coupled together with the usual dumb tasteless gags you'd expect from Troma . I also have to mention the way the narrative is presented , generally speaking this film doesn't really have any plot worth bothering with but the ENTIRE film is narrated from one persons perspective , it's almost as if they didn't film any sound during certain scenes or perhaps they were just to lazy & talentless to write any decent dialogue & a proper story to go with it , at over 100 minutes it's far too long as well . Director Louzil , he also directed the previous entry in the series , was obviously working with a low budget & it shows . Pretty much the whole thing is a mess . Again this has a few funny closing credits , along with ' Set Dresser ' there's credits for ' Salad Dresser ' & ' Cross Dresser ' while ' Key Grip ' is followed by ' Golf Grip ' , you get the idea . There are no laughs & there's no horror in this one either , I honestly can't even remember any gore . The usual abundance of nudity is present & correct though . Technically speaking Class of Nuke ' Em High 3 : The Good , the Bad and the Subhumanoid is pretty dire , it's flat , bland & badly made throughout with rotten special effects . The acting is poor although am I the only one who actually quite fancies Lisa Gaye from these films ? I hate the ridiculous beehive hair-do but there's something about her . . . Also , who names their son Brick ? Apart from Mr . & Mrs Bronsky that is . . . Class of Nuke ' Em High 3 : The Good , the Bad and the Subhumanoid is a pretty useless film , as a comedy it's not funny , as a horror it's not scary or shocking , as a piece of film-making it doesn't even register & it just about fails on all levels . Do you really want to watch a film where the camera moves up a good looking woman's body from the feet up & when it reaches her bum she lets out a loud fart ? I'll say no more , watch one of the previous two instead . . .
Disappointing British horror film that has a great title but is pretty lousy to watch .	We open with a scientist named Britewell ( William Wilde ) on an expedition in Africa . We know it's Africa because we get shown stock footage of exotic birds even though most of the time it looks like a cold day in a Britsh forest somewhere . He collects some large Deathshead moth cocoons . Cut to Victorian England where bodies have been turning up drained of blood . A coach driver ( Leslie Anderson ) hears a scream , he goes to investigate . He finds a body and is attacked by a large flying thing . Inspector Quennell ( Peter Cushing ) is on the case . He talks with a Entomologist named Dr . Mallinger ( Robert Flemyng , who replaced Basil Rathbone at the last minute when he died ) who was the victims teacher . Quennell speaks to the Police Doctor ( Norman Pitt ) who doesn't have any answers . Quennell also talks with the coach driver who is now regarded as insane because he claims that a horrible creature with wings and huge eyes attacked him . While searching the area this latest victim was found in , Sergeant Allen ( Glynn Edwards ) finds some strange petal-like things scattered over the area . Quenell feels that a large bird may be responsible and again talks to Mallinger and shows him the petals they found at the scene of the crime . Meanwhile Britewell has returned from his trip to Africa with the specimens Dr . Mallinger wants . After going for a walk with Manllinger's daughter Clare ( Wanda Ventham ) he turns up dead as well . Quennell is convinced that Mallinger knows more than he is letting on and when Mallinger's butler Granger ( Kevin Stoney ) turns up dead and Mallinger's basement is found full of human skeletons , Quennell is positive . It seems for some bizarre reason Mallinger has turned his daughter into a shape-shifting moth monster and she needs to feed on fresh human blood to survive . However by this time Mallinger and Clare have left the house and have disappeared . Quennell tracks them down and together with his daughter Meg ( Vanessa Howard ) follows them pretending to be on holiday so not to arouse any suspicion upon himself or tip Mallinger off . Soon after arriving Clare has drained the hunky gardener named Clem ( Simon Cain ) completely dry . Unfortunately for Meg , Mallinger and Clare need a young girl to bleed dry and create another moth monster so she will have another of her kind . Will Quenell be able to stop Mallinger and Clare ? Will he be able to save his own daughter Meg ? Directed by Vernon Sewell this is actually quite a poor film . Originally to be called the Deathshead Vampire the script by Peter Bryan is a mess . It's very slow and drawn out , there is virtually no action in it and the sorry looking moth monster itself is hardly seen , in fact it's never shown in it's entirety . I simply don't understand why Dr . Mallinger would want to turn his daughter into a half human / half moth that needs to suck peoples blood , and the script doesn't make it any clearer as it's never discussed beyond one line of dialogue from Mallinger . The ending is one of the worse I've ever seen , why doesn't the monster just fly away ? It feels very rushed , it's like they either run out of money and time or just simply didn't know how to end it properly . Watch it and you'll see what I mean . Having said that , it did just about keep me interested enough to see it through to the bitter end . Bryan also throws in a little nod to rival studio Hammer's Frankenstein series of films with a student play that recreates the story . There is no blood or gore in it so don't worry about that . The monster doesn't look too good though so it's probably just as well it's hardly ever shown . The fantastic Peter Cushing is a pleasure to watch as usual and does his best with extremely poor material , in fact I think Cushing said on more than one occasion that he considered this his worse film . Everyone else is OK . Production values are decent with a nice Victorian feel and look to it which adds a considerable amount of atmosphere that is most welcome , the sets , props and costumes are nice enough to look at . Direction , music and photography are all very flat and give the film a workmanlike feeling to it . This could have been a good horror film if the filmmakers had been able to inject some life into the frankly boring script and added more sequences with the moth killing people and drinking their blood . Very disappointing and I can easily see why Cushing had such a dislike for it , there is much better out there .
" We're not weird Honey , everyone else is . " Oh dear , oh dear , oh dear .	Puppet Master vs Demonic Toys starts the day before Christmas Eve as the great grandnephew of alchemist Andre Toulon & toy maker Robert Toulon ( Corey Feldman ) discovers the secret that let his distant relative re-animate inanimate puppets , by using Toulon blood Robert brings to life four of the murderous little puppets from previous Puppet Master films including Balde , Pinhead , Six Shooter & Jester . Cut to ' Sharpe Toys , World Headquarters ' where evil boss Erica Sharpe ( Vanessa Angel ) is spying on them , she wants the puppets for herself & orders her underlings to fetch them for her as she isn't that happy with her own set of living dolls for at the moment she is stuck with the Demonic Toys who suck . Anyway , the puppets manage to save themselves from being kidnapped & during the next few hours during the run up to Christmas Robert & his daughter Alexandra ( Danielle Keaton ) discover that Erica has entered into a pact with a demon named Bael ( Anton Falk ) to flood the entire world with Sharpe toys & to bring them to life on Christmas morning & have them kill . Everyone . In sight . Great plan eh ? Directed by Ted Nicolaou Puppet Master vs Demonic Toys is a terrible film & if that wasn't enough it insults the Puppet Master series of films which I have to admit I rather liked & thought had some class about them , well to start with anyway . The script by C . Courtney Joyner is hideous , it's a travesty & an absolute mess although to be fair it certainly moves along at a decent pace . First thing to say is that the ' I want to take over the world by flooding it with Demonic Toys at Christmas ' plot takes center stage for the majority of the film & even includes a demon that is the height of ridiculousness with the puppets from the Puppet Master films ( I think I'm right when I say there has been 8 Puppet Master films ) having virtually nothing to do & in a way the film could have easily existed without them while the demonic toys from Demonic Toys ( I know this is very boring but there was only ever one stand alone Demonic Toys ( 1992 ) film ) are also virtually redundant . The dialogue is awful , the character's are embarrassing & the puppets & demonic toys don't face off against each other until the final 5 minutes in a less than spectacular climax . Do you want to know how classy this film is ? One of the toys uses it's farts to launch itself in the air , brilliant eh ? The plot makes no discernible sense with Toulon's connection to it all very tenuous & again just feeling like a cheap way to use the puppets . Director Nicolaou will surely enrage any decent Puppet Master fan such as myself , this film sucks & will probably be the final nail in the coffin for the Puppet Master series . I can't imagine there's many Demonic Toys fans out there so that doesn't matter so much . The whole thing is very cheaply made , the make-up on that demon guy is laughable , the special effects are terrible . You know the first Puppet Master ( 1989 ) was released over 15 years ago & the special effects have actually taken a backwards step , they look worse now than back then when at least the filmmakers cared & put some effort & imagination into it , I mean I doubt they were working with massive budgets either . Gore wise there's a slit wrist & someone's eyes explode but that's it . With a supposed budget of about $2 , 400 , 000 which to me sounds like a fair whack of cash , where did it all go ? This looks more like the sort of low budget under 1 million type shot on a digital camcorder that seem to be everywhere at the moment . Almost 2 and a half million , I can't believe it . The sets , special effects , production values , cinematography & just the way it's made in generally is awful . For some reason this was shot in Sofia in Bulgaria . Even for a made-for-TV film it's pretty bad . I don't quite know how to describe the acting here , Feldman mumbles his way through with dyed grey hair . Ha , ha , ha , what a sight . This has to be one of the worst leading performances ever , it's cringe worthy & he should return to the bar where the filmmakers found him & stay there . No-one else is much better . Puppet Master vs Demonic Toys is a piece of , insert your own expletive , & is not worth renting or buying or wasting any time on . It tries to get people to watch it using the Puppet Master & Demonic Toys franchise to draw the fans in , I can't see anyone getting anything out of this much less the fans , the people it's supposedly aimed at .
" Sending someone to kill me was your first & last mistake . " Another bad Seagal flick .	The Foreigner starts in Paris where undercover agent Jonathan Cold ( Steven Seagal ) is hired by his friend Alexander Marquee ( Philip Dunbar ) to collect a package & deliver it to an address in Germany . Cold agrees but as he takes delivery of the package a load of guy's try to kill him but fail , miserably . Despite nearly being killed Cold still agrees to take the package to Germany & deliver it to rich industrialist Jerome Van Aitken ( Harry Van Gorkum ) , however it's just not that simple as lots of guy's in long black coats want the package themselves & will kill to get it . . . This Polish American co-production was directed by Michael Oblowitz & is bad Seagal which has been said more than a few times over the past few years . The script by Darren Campbell ( no , not the retired British Gold Olympic medal winning sprinter ! I hope . . ) takes itself extremely seriously & is a bit of a mess , it jumps all over Europe from Paris to Poland to Germany to Norway seemingly at random & bizarrely although there are occasionally captions to let us know where we are they appear at random & not on every occasion we need them . Then there are the terrible character's , you won't care anybody in The Foreigner or anything that happens to them . The film doesn't quite work & there are lapses of logic ( the are obviously no police in Europe & you can openly kill people & carry guns & bombs across borders like it was duty free ) & as a whole it just doesn't come together at all particularly the very rushed & unsatisfactory ending . At almost 100 minutes it's too long & not exciting enough to maintain ones interest or like for it . Not Seagal's best work . Director Oblowitz doesn't do anything special here , the whole film has a very grey , muted colour scheme & it looks like Europe is constantly overcast . Then there's the decision to dress virtually all the bad guy's up exactly the same in long black leather coats , watch it & you'll notice it . The action is generally confined to dull shoot outs where the bad guy's can't shoot straight as usual & Seagal never runs out of bullets , yawn . Looking at Seagal his weight gain is really noticeable , the harsh fact is that he is like Elvis & the older he gets the fatter he gets . He doesn't really have a neck here as it's more just blubber . Set & shot in Europe this even looks bland & fails to capitalise on it's locations . I was gob-smacked to see that this had a very healthy budget of around $20 , 000 , 000 because it certainly didn't end up on screen . This was apparently slated for a theatrical release but was canned & went straight to video after Seagal's previous film Half Past Dead ( 2002 ) bombed at the box office . Shot in Poland this probably had some expensive location shooting but not much else bar a couple of explosions . The acting isn't up to much , Seagal is Seagal & mumbles his way the film while I must admit I thought Anna-Louise Plowman who plays Meredith was pretty hot but she's not in it enough to make it watchable . The Foreigner is a poor action film , if your a Seagal fan remember the good times & watch films like Under Siege 1 & 2 again instead . Not recommended although by no means the worst film ever as some have claimed . The Foreigner was amazingly followed by a sequel Black Dawn ( 2005 ) although it's no surprise they tried to distance themselves from this & give it a completely different title .
Dull as dishwater supernatural drama .	Janghwa , Hongryeon , or A Tale of Two Sisters as it's more commonly known amongst English speaking audiences , starts as two young sisters Soo-Mi ( Su-jeong Lim ) & Soo-Yeon ( Geun-yeong Mun ) return home to their father ( Kap-su Kim ) & stepmother ( Jung-ah Yum ) after spending some time in a mental hospital . Things are not well , they don't seem to get on with their stepmother , their father isn't much help & to add to their anxieties & fears there might be ghosts haunting the house . . . This South Korean production was written & directed by Ji-woon Kim & I'm afraid that once again I have to go against the popular opinion on a film & say that I personally didn't like Janghwa , Hongryeon at all . The script , as is the general feeling , is some what difficult to follow at times & it all leads up to an ending that you can make of which whatever you want I suppose . I found the film incredibly boring & dull , I just found it so slow that I lost interest very early on & the film never did anything to regain it . For most of it's running time I thought it was a complete snooze-fest . It's very limited in the sense that only six people appear in it & that it's set almost entirely within one location , these aren't necessarily problems on their own but when associated with such a dull film I considered switching off & going to bed . I did however stick it out to the end for what it was worth . There are plenty of great films with great twists & turns that excite & entertain , I can understand a slow , measured & exact build up but overall I just wasn't interested in anything that was going on & in my opinion films are there for entertainment value , their there to entertain & for me Janghwa , Hongryeon didn't at all & therefore I have negative feelings about it , it's as simple & straight forward as that . Director Kim certainly likes the quiet approach , you could hear a pin drop during most of Janghwa , Hongryeon . The camera deliberately lingers on shots & it seems like the thing lasted for hours while I was watching it . The narrative is unusual to say the least & I just think life is too short to spend it trying to figure this film out . To it's credit it's well made with a nice sense of style plus there are a couple of creepy scenes although their few & far between . Forget about any gore . Technically the film is top-notch & I have no complaints on this side of things , still don't like the film though . Since everyone speaks in Korean you can't really tell much about the performances but they seemed to do a decent enough job . Janghwa , Hongryeon ( which apparently were the sisters names in the original story & mean Rose Flower & Red Lotus respectively ) wasn't my cup of tea at all , I have better things to do than strip it down & analyse every millisecond or every abstract scene in it . Too long , far too overrated & too dull for my tastes I'm afraid , I'm sure I've offended a lot of people by saying this but I don't really give a damn , I didn't like it & it's as simple & straight forward as that . Set to be remade by Hollywood as A Tale of Two Sisters ( 2008 ) .
Mega Snake ? More like Mega Turkey . . .	Mega Snake ? More like Mega Turkey . . . Rating 3 This comment may contain spoilers Mega Snake is set in a small town in East Tennessee where Les Daniels ( Michael Shanks ) works as a paramedic & lives on a chicken farm with his old mum & his brother Duff ( John T . Woods ) who happens to be a snake wrangling Christian preacher . Don't ask . While searching for some snakes to wrangle Duff visits some native Indian dude who has this really evil snake in a jar , according to the native Indian dude this snake is the last of it's kind & is evil . Duff steals it . Later that night Duff knocks the jar it's trapped in off a table & it breaks on the floor releasing the evil snake which then eats all the family pets & chickens & starts growing at an incredible rate . Before long this once small harmless looking snake has turned into a Mega Snake ! Scary eh ? It's up to Les & local female Sheriff Erin ( Siri Baruc ) to save the town from the Mega Snake that seems to have an insatiable appetite for human beings . . . Directed by Tibor Takács this awful ' Creature Feature ' is yet again another monstrosity from the Nu Image & Sci-Fi Channel stable that brought us such ' classics ' like Shark Attack ( 1999 ) , Crocodile ( 2000 ) , Octopus ( 2002 ) , Rats ( 2003 ) , The Snake King ( 2005 ) & their recent masterpiece Shark in Venice ( 2008 ) amongst countless sequels & other terrible films . I won't beat about the bush here & I will be blunt & simply say that Mega Snake is another awful by-the-numbers generic ' Creature Feature ' of the most moronic & stupid kind that defies any real logical or analytical attempts to understand it . The plot doesn't make any sense , I mean this last living snake in a jar that can grow to an enormous length for no apparent reason is as deep & meaningful as it gets . The character's are the usual clichéd cardboard cutouts like the local Sheriff , a couple of farmers , a bit of comedy relief & a typical bad guy who refuses to believe in the existence of the giant snake . The start of this is a Gremlins ( 1984 ) rip-off as a mysterious shopkeeper with an unusual animal discusses three golden rules you must not break which invariably Duff does & which even more invariably lead to death & destruction . He deserved to get eaten . In fact everyone in Mega Snake deserves to get eaten . While I'm at it I also think everyone involved with the making of Mega Snake deserve to get eaten too . The plot is very predictable & you can guess who will live , who will die & who the heroes are . The CGI computer effects in these cheap made-for-telly ' Creature Features ' are usually terrible & while Mega Snake doesn't have the worst effects ever they aren't exactly impressive . If I was being generous I would the CGI effects on the Mega Snake are better than one might expect but that's not any sort of praise in it's own right . There's a bit of gore including some guts , some blood splatter , a crushed head & a skinned goat . If you like these sorts of ' Creature Features ' then Mega Snake might appeal to you although I thought it was terrible & to add to my misery Mega Snake was the second awful ' Creature Feature ' I have endured in the space of two days after I watched the even worse Sabretooth ( 2002 ) a couple of nights ago . Although set in the US in Tenessee this was actually filmed in Sofia in Bulgaria in Eastern Europe . At least the American cast got a free holiday . The cast sucks but does include Michael Shanks who appeared in nearly 200 episodes of Stargate SG-1 ( 1997-2007 ) although I personally have never even seen one episode of it . Mega Snake is yet another terrible Sci-Fi Channel ' Creature Feature ' with awful CGI effects , a plot that makes no sense & all the clichés & problems of the genre in abundance mean Mega Snake is a Mega Turkey .
The worst of the series to this point .	Curse of the Puppet Master is set in a small American town where the ever so slightly dim Robert ' Tank ' Winsley ( Josh Green ) works as a lowly gas station attendant for $30 a week , that is until curio collector & owner of a museum of oddities Dr . Magrew ( George Peck ) & his lovely young daughter Jane ( Emily Harrison ) stop for gas . Magrew notices that Robert is an extremely skilled carver with an exceptional imagination & offers him $35 a week to work for him , with the $5 a week pay rise too much to turn down Robert accepts . Dr . Magrew show's Robert various living puppets made by puppeteer Andre Toulon that he brought in an auction some years previous & ask's Robert to carve the perfect puppet which Magrew hopes to inject with life & recreate Toulon's success . . . Curse of the Puppet Master was the fifth sequel to the rather splendid killer puppet flick Puppetmaster ( 1989 ) & apparently had the working title Puppet Master 6 : The Curse but by this stage it was probably a wise decision to stop numbering them & thus try to fool a few unsuspecting buyers . The first three Puppet Master films were really good & I think they are all great although Puppet Master 4 ( 1993 ) & Puppet Master 5 : The Final Chapter ( 1994 ) were pretty bad apart from some impressive stop-motion animation effects & the nicely atmospheric Bogeda Bay Inn setting which are both absent here from Curse of the Puppet Master as the ambitions of the filmmakers & the budget gets increasingly lower with each new entry into the franchise . Directed by David DeCoteau under the name Victoria Sloan one of his many pseudonym's he had actually directed Puppet Master III : Toulon's Revenge ( 1991 ) but there's no repeat of his earlier magic & Curse of the Puppet Master is pretty dire stuff & even at a paltry 75 odd minutes in length the script feels padded & uneventful . There's no continuity to the earlier films at all , there's no mention of the green life giving serum & Curse of the Puppet Master changes the whole central concept to animating the puppets with a human beings soul which is transferred into the puppet thus giving it life instead of the serum from the previous films . To be honest it's a lame story which is supposed to unfold as some sort of mystery but it's pretty predictable & the single worst aspect of Curse of the Puppet Master is that it relegates the killer puppets to no more than bit parts who do virtually nothing the entire film . There's no explanation of why the puppets obey Magrew or why they suddenly turn on him at the end & like the previous two films they are nowhere evil enough . Another thing is while Magrew makes Robert carve a puppet out of wood the puppet Magrew uses at the end is actually made out of metal is some awful looking tank like creation with a couple laser guns for arms . The ending is awful too & is one of those occasions where the film just literally stops dead & your left thinking ' is that it ? ' or ' what happened ? ' or ' did my DVD player just skip a chapter ? ' . The puppet special effects are the worst of the series so far too , there's a few seconds of stop-motion by the vast majority of the effects work is simple poorly operated rod puppets which look still & have very limited movement . The opening credits have a montage of special effects shots from the previous five films & they beat anything else seen in this . For some reason the puppet Torch is ditched even though he appeared in Puppet Master 5 while Leech Woman makes a reappearance for the first time in the series after having been burnt in Puppet Master II ( 1991 ) . The film is gorier than either parts 4 o5 although two bloody murders don't make this particularly good , there's some slashing & bloody cuts & Tunneller sticks his drill into some guy's groin & his wedding tackle . The whole film & production just looks cheaper than the previous entries , the moody setting & lighting have all but gone & there's a bland visually flat & dull look to it . With a supposed budget of about $250 , 000 the budgets were getting lower & lower & it show's frankly . Apparently shot at Canoga Park in Los Angeles . The acting is forgettable from no-one I have ever heard of before . Curse of the Puppet Master is worse than the five previous Puppet Master films & to be honest they should have stopped making them after Puppet Master III : Toulon's Revenge while the series was on a high . The only Puppet Master film I have left to watch in the series now is Retro Puppet Master ( 1999 ) which I can't say I am particularly looking forward too .
" At least they didn't blow up the toilets like last year . " Terrible low budget slasher .	Head Cheerleader Dead Cheerleader starts late one Halloween night , also the eve of a big football game , as local high-school caretakers George & Earl remove dead animals hanging from the sports field goalposts , put there as a practical joke by some people who obviously have no sense of humour . However George comes across a bag which contains the decapitated head of a cheerleader named Patricia Bertwood . It's not long before head cheerleader Heather Connelly ( Tasha Biering ) is told the distressing news over the phone by cheerleading coach Elaine Riley ( Debbie Rochon ) , they are somewhat shocked but figure the show must go on . Shortly after putting the phone down coach Riley is murdered . . . Back at home with Heather & the phone calls start , phone calls from the killer who taunts her , scares her & warns her not to set foot outside of her house . Meanwhile three more member's of the cheerleading squad , Molly ( Noelle Manuel ) , Violet ( Beth Hunt ) & Rose ( Amy R . Swaim ) meet gruesome ends at the hands of the axe wielding killer . Heather receives more phone calls informing her of her friends fate but who is responsible ? Her boyfriend Danny ( Daniel Justin Roach ) ? Her jealous & possessive ex Chris ( Andre Walker ) ? Or maybe the local drunk Joseph Hatterman ( Bob Carter ) who has a very dodgy history ? Written , produced & directed by Jeffrey Miller Head Cheerleader Dead Cheerleader is a pretty poor film on all accounts . The script obviously takes it's inspiration , or steals it's ideas whichever way you want to put it , from better films from this genre like Scream ( 1996 ) & Friday the 13th ( 1980 ) & unfortunately doesn't do a very good job , it can't even match them let alone surpass them in an already overcrowded sub genre . For most of it's 80 minute duration Head Cheerleader Dead Cheerleader is a very uninspired clichéd slasher , think the worst Friday the 13th clone you can & mix it with a right out of nowhere a similar to Scream twist ending which seemed over elaborate but at the same time was surprisingly effective . If the start of the film had built up to this ending better than Head Cheerleader Dead Cheerleader could have been a decent little film but it comes from absolutely nowhere & just doesn't feel like it belongs to the preceding 70 minutes which are throughly routine & not especially enjoyable . The character's are awful , the dialogue is poor with some really bad red-herrings spread throughout that just don't work although at least there is a fairly steady stream of victims & it's quite short . Director Miller hasn't got a clue how to make a horror film . There is no build up to any of the murders they just suddenly happen which means there is no tension or potential for scares whatsoever . He has no idea how to set a mood as in one scene as Heather is having a ' emotional ' chat with her ex boyfriend Chris his choice of music is bizarre as he uses a tune that would be more appropriate during a murder scene . There are a few murder's but nothing that memorable , a couple of women have their breasts cut off with an axe , someone gets an axe in the head , there is quite possibly the worst looking severed foot I've ever seen , a couple of decapitated heads & a hammer stuck in someone's head . There is some nudity as well which is nice but no actual sex scenes . The budget for Head Cheerleader Dead Cheerleader must have been minuscule , I'm not joking or exaggerating when I say that 90 % of the film takes place in Heather's front room & house ( that ' don't go out ' warning from the killer was there to save money then ) & it becomes highly irritating . The shot on video photography is point shoot & hope for the best stuff while the special effects are anything but special . The acting is pretty poor , but then did I really expect anything else ? Head Cheerleader Dead Cheerleader is a throughly rotten attempt at a slasher film , apart from from a clever & surprisingly effective climax which deserves to be used in a better overall film there is absolutely nothing to recommend here . Stick with the likes of Friday the 13th , The Burning ( 1981 ) , My Bloody Valentine ( 1981 ) & Scream for decent slashers that deliver the goods . Not worth your time or money .
Awful , awful , awful .	Serum starts as Eddie ( Derek Phillips ) is delighted to learn he has been accepted into medical school to carry on the family tradition of becoming an MD like his father Richard ( Dennis O'Neill ) & his uncle Eddie ( David H . Hickey ) , however his joy could be short lived as Eddie is involved in an accident & is run over by a car . Taken to the nearest hospital it doesn't look good for poor Eddie so his uncle Eddie convinces his brother Richard to let him save Eddie with the serum he has developed , a serum which will give the recipient the power to self heal any sort of wound or illness . Desperate for his boy to live Richard agrees but the procedure has unwanted side effects like turning Eddie into a brain eating zombie which is just not a good thing . . . Executive produced , written & directed by Steve Franke I'll be perfectly frank myself & say Serum is awful , Serum is one of those no budget horror films which tries to rip-off other any number of other's & ends up being slightly more fun than having you fingernails pulled out with pliers . The script is terrible , it has the whole Re-Animator ( 1985 ) feel to it with mad scientists wielding huge syringes trying to eradicate death but it's so boring it's untrue , the first forty minutes is nothing more than a really dull soap opera that amounts to nothing expect to pad the running time out with Eddie arriving home after spending some time away & finding his ex-girlfriend has hooked up with someone else , arguments with his step-mom , getting drunk with his mate & generally boring the audience stiff . So , once the tedium of the first forty minutes is over & if your still watching it it takes another twenty minutes to get Eddie re-animated & then he kills a couple of people , police catch up with him & shoot him , the end . Thank god . Serum is devoid of any of the characteristic's that one would associate with a good film , the character's suck , the dialogue is poor , it takes itself far too seriously , it's dull , it's slow , it's forgettable & considering it's meant to be a horror film there's an alarming lack of blood , gore or horror . Not recommended , did I mention Serum was boring ? I thought so . Director Franke does nothing to liven this thing up , although competent there's no style here at all . The gore levels are none existent , there's a bit of splashed blood , a bitten neck , a couple of scars on a dead woman's face , a couple of scenes where a needle pierces skin & that's it . Don't expect a Re-Animator in the gore department because if you do your going to be sorely disappointed , much like I was in fact . Filmed in what looks like one house , one restaurant & a lab the film has no variety either & just looks cheap throughout . There's a couple of scenes of nudity but that's nowhere near enough to save it . Technically the film isn't too bad , at least it looks like proper cameras were used , I can't really comment on the special effects because there aren't any but generally speaking Serum looks reasonably professional . Apparently shot in Texas , or should that read it should have literally been shot in Texas ? The acting sucks although again I think they were proper actor's rather than friends or family of the director . Serum is a terrible film , it's dull , slow , boring , has no gore & feels like a horrible soap opera for the first forty minutes . I don't understand why anyone would feel the need to watch this when they can watch Re-Animator or one of it's sequels again instead , seriously I recommend you give Serum a miss . There I've just saved you from wasting 90 minutes of your life , you can thank me later .
" There's more to this story than just a jug of corn liquor . " Dull 40's poverty row mad scientist nonsense .	The Mad Monster starts in Dr . Lorenzo Cameron's ( George Zucco ) laboratory as he perfects his discovery of how to turn a human being into a vicious wolf like monster by injecting animal blood into a human subject who happens to be his dim-witted servant Petro ( Glenn Strange ) , apparently he plans to put the serum at the disposal of the war department who will use it to create an unstoppable army of these monsters , the ultimate soldier ! However , first things first as Dr . Cameron has his sights set on some sweet revenge on the people who dismissed his experiments , forced him to resign & subjected him to public ridicule . Dr . Cameron puts his plan into action & uses his monstrous creation to murder Professor Blaine ( Robert Strange ) , in an unfortunate turn of events Dr . Cameron is unable to control the beast & is spotted by a local farmer Jed Harper ( Eddie Holden ) who spreads the news like wildfire , in another unfortunate coincidence a reporter named Tom Gregory ( Johnny Downs ) gets wind of the story & starts to investigate , he starts to suspect Dr . Cameron & since Gregory is going out with his daughter Lenora ( Ann Nagel ) he has plenty of opportunity to sniff around . . . Directed by Sam Newfield this is really low budget stuff from the 40's , even worse it's dull unoriginal low budget stuff . The script by Fred Myton drags the extremely thin premise out to almost 77 minutes which is far too long , there is no variety in the story & it's basically the same thing over & over . The character's are dull clichés , the mad scientist who conducts pointless experiments that create a monster , the fragile pretty daughter , the reporter who plays the hero & by pure coincidence happens to both be investigating the mysterious deaths said mad scientist is responsible for & is romantically involved with his daughter , the dumb servant , stupid idiotic police & stereotypical shotgun wielding farmers who are always accused of being drunk . This was probably clichéd even back in 1942 ! The film plods along at a fairly slow pace & director Newfield never manages to maintain or generate much in the way of excitement or atmosphere which is a bad thing . Technically the film isn't great , obviously the budget was minuscule & the mad monster itself looks lame resembling an old homeless wino who hasn't shaved for a few weeks & has had a pair of plastic joke shop fangs placed in his mouth . The black and white cinematography is basic & static like most films from this period while the good Dr . Cameron's laboratory consists of a couch & a table with a few sorry pieces of scientific equipment on top . The acting is stiff & wooden with Petro looking like he's on dope throughout the entire film , Zucco as the mad scientist doesn't convince & is forgettable . The Mad Monster is a pretty lame horror film , there is very little here to entertain although at least I made it through to the end in a single sitting which when I think about it is a bit of an achievement in itself !
Exploitation film lacking enough exploitation elements .	Where do I even start ? ! The film , set in San Francisco , opens with two black guys fighting in Dr . Jekyll's ( James Mathers ) lab . Over this fight a narration by Jekyll informs us of the story up to this point . He says " Great Grandfather Jekyll foolishly used his own body as a subject for experimentation , that was his fatal mistake . Once the rage emerged , or as he wrote once Hyde emerged and gained control , Grandfather was lost . In the continuing viewing of my experiments filmed here in the laboratory it is interesting to note how the various subjects react under the influence of the serum . The reaction time of the serum doesn't seem to be affected in any way by the decrease in dosage . I'm able to study the behavioral changes brought about by the different dosages . The black subjects have less hostility in comparison to the whites , one would think they would have more repressed aggressions , perhaps I should increase their dosage . Despite the many failures I have endured thus far , I will continue with the human experimentation and discover the secret that will give me the power to control the mind of man ! " . Jekyll is a complete loon , he was thrown out of Oxford university in 1939 for dissecting a tramp alive . He keeps his assistant and the woman with whom he is in love with , Julia ( Dawn Carver Kelly ) constantly drugged and tied to the front of his wardrobe in his bedroom . His mute sister Hilda ( Nadine Kalmes , who I sort of fancied ) was hopelessly insane from birth and was lobotomized when she was 14 to calm her madness . Boris ( Jake Pearson ) is also mute , he kidnaps people for Dr . Jekyll to perform his experiments on and is a general dogsbody , he is also in love with Julia . Malo ( Tom Nicholson ) who has an afro hair cut and a 70's porno mustache , also helps Jekyll in his experiments , Jekyll describes him as " a fine example of a psychotic killer ! " , he doesn't say a word throughout the entire film either . On the false pretense that his daughter Julia is dead Jekyll invites her Father Professor Atkinson ( John F . Kearney ) to his house . Jekyll wants Atkinson to help him in his experiments . Jekyll tells him that he has developed a cross breed of cattle that produces 30 % more edible meat . But the bulls are docile and refuse to breed , sex stimulants on their own are useless . Jekyll says that while he worked on psychological warfare for the army he developed a pituitary stimulant which released all the aggression buried deep within the unconscious mind . The serum is unstable and the bulls kill the cow after ejaculation ! At first Professor Atkinson agrees to help him , but it soon becomes clear to him that Jekyll has more sinister intentions for the serum . Jekyll confesses " if I can control the dosage so as to counter the rage with the awful need for withdraw then I believe I can keep the subject in a constant state of anxiety , they will follow me then on command ! " Disturbed by this Professor Atkinson refuses to help him any more . If it's possible Dr . Jekyll becomes even crazier in his attempts to perfect the serum . Will he succeed ? Can Professor Atkinson convince him to cease his experiments ? Will the local police figure out that Dr . Jekyll is behind the recent kidnapping spree ? Watch it and find out . Directed by James Woods ( no , not that James Woods ! ) this is one crazy film . The script by Dr . Jekyll himself James Mathers is totally hilarious . Just listen to some of the dialogue , " good god Jekyll does tragedy follow you everywhere ! ? " Jekyll starts to grope a drugged Julia , his sister Hilda looks on in the shadows , he sees her grabs her and says " you have had to bear more agony than I in your wretched young life , your just like Mother , that's why I hate you ! You walk like her , look like her , you even make me want you like her ! " Dr . Jekyll is showing Professor Atkinson some footage of his experiments , he gloats over the possibilities " imagine if you will an army of enraged killers , righteous killers . Who'd need no moral justification for their deeds , ever . No moral questions in battle ! " " You fiend , Jekyll ! You fiend ! You Fiend ! " Line after line , it's just so hilariously entertaining . The relationships between the characters is bizarre as well . Jekyll beats Boris , " yes my friend I know exactly how you feel , love is the most painful emotion of all ! " and burns him with a cigar . He stabs Hilda in the arm with an ice pick because she didn't put any ice in his drink , in this scene Jekyll also attacks a block of ice with the pick shouting " Ice ! Ice ! Ice ! " I am also puzzled as to how Boris can kidnap people so easily . He pulls his car up outside the front of Jekyll's house and proceeds to remove people from the boot and takes them inside over his shoulder . Jekyll's neighbors call the police when they supposedly hear gunshots but don't notice Boris and all the unconscious people he brings home in the boot of his car ! Unfortunately , apart from the wacky script and bizarre characters there is little to recommend here . The film has no blood or gore and very little violence , the fight scenes look OK and seem well choreographed , with the exception of the odd punch here and there that obviously miss by a mile . Another exploitation element that appears to have been completely , and disappointingly ignored is naked flesh , there isn't any nudity or sex in it at all . The film is extremely dark and sometimes difficult to see whats happening . The entire film is set in Jekyll's large house , film never leaves the confines of his house or grounds . Acting is all over the place , Hilda , Julia , Boris and Malo don't say a word during the whole film so they don't have much acting to do . I did like Hilda though , probably because I fancied her . So , the entire film is basically Mathers as Jekyll who overacts wildly , in fact he's quite funny to watch . The only other speaking character is Professor Atkinson , but Kearney isn't given much to do with him . The script is surreal , the dialogue is hilarious , and the characters bizarre , if only they could have made a good exploitation film around these elements , but they didn't and the film is poor in just about every other department , and with no blood , gore or nudity there's not a whole lot of reason to watch this . I found some of it really funny , but all things considered , don't bother wasting your time .
" An EEG will pick up any brain activity , from a fart to a nervous break-down . " Really sloooooooooooooow .	Patrick starts with Patrick ( Robert Thompson ) himself killing his Mom ( Carole Ann-Aylett ) & her lover ( Paul Young ) by throwing an electric fire into their bathtub . Three years later & nurse Kathy Jacquard ( Susan Penhaligon ) has just separated form her husband Ed ( Rod Mullinar ) & is looking to get back into nursing after a two year absence . Kathy applies for a job at the ' Roget Clinic ' where after a tough interview with Matron Cassidy ( Julia Blake ) she is given a job by Dr . Roget ( Robert Helpmann ) himself & the responsibility of looking after the comatose patient in room 15 , who just happens to be Patrick . Patrick has been a patient at the Roget Clinic for three years ever since he witnessed his Mother & her lover being killed in an ' accident ' according to the police anyway . He never speaks , moves or has any traceable brain activity at all . Kathy quickly befriends Sister Paula Williams ( Helen Hemmingway ) but Matron Cassidy isn't keen on her . As Kathy talks with Sister Williams in front of Patrick about her personal life & thoughts strange things start to happen . A neurosurgeon named Brian Wright ( Bruce Barry ) mysteriously almost drowns in his swimming pool after coming on to Kathy , Kathy's flat is vandalised , Kathy's ex Ed burns his hands after making her a casserole , her typewriter starts to write on it's own & Patrick starts to communicate with her by making a spitting noise . Kathy is convinced that Patrick has telepathic powers which he has developed over the three years he has been confined to a hospital bed , Kathy starts to believe that Patrick has discovered a sort of sixth sense apparently . Patrick starts to affect Kathy's personal life & communicates to her that he feels someone is trying to kill him . . . This Australian production was directed by Richard Franklin & almost put me in a coma , Patrick isn't really a horror in my opinion it's more of a thriller . The script by Everett De Roche is so slow & uneventful it's untrue , I am not over exaggerating when I say Patrick is one of the dullest films I've seen in ages . It's a shame because the premise & ideas here are good but after over an hour of virtually nothing happening my patience was being tested to the limit . There is a grand total of one death in Patrick after the opening sequence . There are very few characters in Patrick & since their all bland & forgettable they didn't help to maintain my flagging interest , their not developed at all either . We know nothing about Patrick apart from the opening scene & that he spends all day in a bed . We know nothing about Sister Williams who is there just to provide a friend for Kathy to talk to about her feelings & in turn giving director Franklin an easy & lazy way to let us , the viewer , know as well . Matron Cassidy's motives for her disliking of Patrick isn't touched upon more than a sentence about her not liking the air in his room & a speech about medical science prolonging life when it perhaps shouldn't . I could go on & on about how flimsy Patrick's characters are . It also starts to go into Patrick's previous nurse who also suffered in the same way Kathy is but again this is given one sentence & then totally forgotten about . Franklin seems to think showing Patrick telepathically typing on a typewriter is scary & interesting , it isn't mate . There is very little I can comment on as literary nothing happens other than Patrick typing some letters out & an awful lot of dull chit-chat between dull characters . When Patrick eventually starts to use his powers for something that resembles menace the film ends . I'm almost falling asleep just thinking about it ! There is no blood or gore whatsoever & a grand total of one burned corpse . The acting is average at best but no-one embarrasses themselves too much . Director Franklin manages to create a few stylish sequences , the opening pre-credits scene in particular , but they are all but lost amongst the mountain of boring , flat , pointless & unimaginative time wasting nonsense that comprise most of Patrick's near 110 minute running time . Patrick would have been a lot better if it had a much tighter pace & a couple of murders , I mean someone being trapped in a lift for a few days just isn't that scary or memorable is it ? Basically just think of Patrick as the worst Carrie ( 1976 ) rip-off you can imagine & your not far off the mark . So I'll give it a couple of stars because the central idea is good & one because generally speaking it's competently made throughout with one or two nice touches here & there . I still pretty much hated it though & I really am falling asleep just thinking about it . . .
Pretty bad .	Voodoo Moon tells the tale of Cole ( Eric Mabius ) some sort of guy who has magical powers who is seeking Daniel ( Rik Young ) who happens to be the devil & made the town where Cole was born murder each other , or something like that . The whole town that is except Cole & his psychic sister Heather ( Charisma Carpenter ) who are now on a revenge mission to kill Daniel . To aid them in this task Cole psychically summons various people whom he has used his powers to save in some capacity & owe him a favour . Erm , eventually they all meet up & fight & that's about it . This Canadian American co-production was edited , written & directed by Kevin VanHook who also makes a cameo appearance as a ' Cemetery Gardener ' & I thought it was pretty damned bad . The script is painfully slow , most of the film seems to take place in a large farmhouse where not much happens . The character's are also pretty poor , while two of the people Cole summons to help him are given stories shown in flashback none of the others are & they feel underdeveloped , inconsequential & pointless . Daniel the devil is given no motivation for anything , he doesn't seem to have any sort of plan & he dies too easily . Then there's the magical powers that some of the character's seem to have , I know Cole has magical Voodoo type abilities but it's very sketchy & why the hell does Frank Taggert ( Jeffrey Combs ) get his neck broken & then comes back to life ? What ? It's baffling & a bizarre story arc that seems at odds with the rest of the film . Why do all these events suddenly take place now ? There seems to be no significant reason why everything takes place at the point in time that it does , none whatsoever . The action is lightweight & dull , there's barely any violence & gore plus it's a real chore to sit through . Director VanHook does OK although it's all rather forgettable , flat , bland & unexciting . There's no atmosphere or scares & a lot of the CGI effects are pretty bad . Forget about any blood or gore as there isn't any . With a supposed budget of about $2 , 000 , 000 one has to wonder where the money went , I'm sorry but this is a very bland forgettable film that doesn't distinguish itself in any area . The acting is of a suitably low standard & it's a shame to see a fine actor like Jeffrey Combs in crap low budget horror films like this & All Souls Day ( 2005 ) . Voodoo Moon is rubbish , I'm sure no one sets out to make a bad film & I'm positive no one here did but lets call a spade a spade shall wee , it's crap . Definitely not recommended .
Boring nonsense .	Jennifer's Shadow is set in Argentina & starts as Jennifer Cassi ( Gina Philips ) arrives there after her sister Johanna dies . Jennifer is left Johanna's large house in her will , Jennifer decides to sell the house & head back to Los Angeles even though her Grandmother Mary Ellen ( Faye Dunaway ) is opposed to the sale . However strange things begin to happen , Jennifer starts having nightmares about Ravens pecking at her & she starts to feel very ill . After a check up in hospital it seems that one of her kidney's have mysteriously disappeared , what is happening to Jennifer ? Is it an ancient family curse ? Will Jennifer be the next to succumb to it . . . This Argentinian American co-production was co-written & co-directed by Daniel de la Vega & Pablo Parés & is a really dull waste of ninety odd minutes , a tedious & predictable modern ghost story that I would imagine will put more people to sleep sooner than scare them . The script by Vega , Parés & P . J . Pettiette is pretty slow going & tedious which is not what anyone wants , I mean I'm sure most people don't want to sit down & be bored out of their skulls . The character's are all uninteresting & fairly faceless with little or no motivation for anything they do . For instance who is that graveyard caretaker guy ? How did he know about the demons ? What is his interest & motivation for getting involved ? I couldn't see it . Jennifer herself is a pretty unlikable & bland leading lady , her Grandmother Mary Allen is as clichéd as they come & it's surprising that she is so obviously the villain . I mean for this sort of mystery based horror / ghost story it's surprisingly predictable & routine . There are gaps in both logic & the story which together with the terrible twist ending which isn't much of a twist I didn't like Jennifer's Shadow one iota . Directors Vega & Parés goes down the much used route of bleaching almost all of the colour from the picture which often renders it not too far from black and white , I suspect that they wanted to give it a period Gothic feel but it's been done so many times before & often so much better that it didn't do much for me at all & just makes the whole film look dull & lifeless . There's a definite 40's period look as well , from the costumes to the interior of the large house but again it's rather half hearted & cheap looking . Jennifer's Shadow is well made but it's rather forgettable , it's not scary or creepy & it's rather predictable . If that wasn't enough there's no gore either , there's a few scenes of Ravens pecking away at people & a beating heart but nothing else . With a supposed budget of about $1 , 000 , 000 & retitled to The Chronicles of the Raven for it's US & international DVD release this is reasonably well made but a million won't buy you too much these days & Jennifer's Shadow pretty much proves that theory . There are too many scenes of actor's speaking in thick Argentinian accents as well , even though it might be realistic I actually like to be able to understand what people are saying . The acting is alright although Dunaway overacts badly & is obviously there for the money . Jennifer's Shadow is a rubbishy ghost film that I thought was a total bore from start to finish , I would rather watch The Incredibly Strange Creatures Who Stopped Living and Became Mixed-Up Zombies ! ! ? ( 1964 ) again instead . A total waste of time .
" Nuke the mother fcker . " Bad , just plain bad .	King of the Lost World starts as a plane crashes in a mysterious jungle , of those aboard Ed Malone ( Jeff Denton ) & John Roxton ( Rhett Giles ) take charge . The plane has been broken in half while crash landing & the end with the radio & black box in is somewhere deep in the jungle , a group decide to go look for it & try to radio for help . However they soon discover a jungle full of horrors including giant spiders , giant scorpions , flying dragons , a giant ape & a tribe of primitives . . . Co-written & directed by Leigh Scott who also plays Dr . Armstrong in the it this is another terrible zero budget Asylum produced sci-fi flick that in this case is a complete rip-off of King Kong . The script by Scott , Carlos De Los Rios & David Michael Latt takes itself very seriously & moves along at a reasonable pace but the character's , dialogue & situations are terrible . This is a poorly thought out mess designed to cost as little as possible & to cash-in on the recent ( at the time ) King Kong remake . I don't know why what else to say about this , it's just both conceptually & technically awful . If a passenger plane crashes there would rescue planes & search parties there within hours , we do have things such as radars & tracking devices you know . What happens to the other plane crash survivors who stay behind on the beach & are then taken away by the tribe ? Do yourself a favour & give this one a miss . Director Scott turns in an average looking film that isn't much fun to watch . Then , of course , there are the special effects which are simply terrible . The big ape at the end looks awful & all the horrible CGI seems really blurred which makes it look worse , the special effects on the original 1933 version of King Kong are better & more convincing than this . There's nothing quite like bad CGI effects to take you out of a film & make it look cheap & nasty . We get some killer vines , a giant spider , several giant scorpions , a huge ape & some flying dragons all of which look pretty childish & unconvincing . There's no gore or violence in it worth mentioning . With a budget less than $1 , 000 , 000 this has terrible special effects that are simply embarrassing to watch at times , the live action stuff is competent but forgettable & unimaginative . The acting sucks too , the always watchable Steve Railsback makes a small cameo appearance . King of the Lost Island is a pretty terrible film as is the general opinion for which once I am in full agreement , definitely one to avoid .
Supernatural teen haunted house horror .	Pray for Morning starts as a few teen friends decide to spend the night in the Royal Crescent Hotel , a large rundown long abandoned hotel that was the scene of five gruesome murders back in 1984 . Jesse ( Jonathon Trent ) has always been interested in the hotel & drawn to the mystery surrounding the still unsolved murders , he has convinced some of his high school mates to accompany him , during the middle of the night of course because going there during the day when it was light would just be silly . Once there they decide to check out the rooms in which the five bodies were found , before anyone know's it an evil ghostly spirit has been awakened & is killing the teens off one-by-one & unless they can stop it none of them will live to see the morning . . . Written & directed by Cartney Wearn I watched Pray for Morning last night without knowing a thing about it , the title is rather vague & could have referred to anything so I didn't go into it with any great expectation yet I still found myself disappointed & not particularly having a good time . What we have here is a cross between The Shining ( 1980 ) with it's hotel style setting & The Amityville Horror ( 1979 ) with the now standard haunted house scenario ( spooky property has a dark past , you know the sort of thing ) along with a few boring mystery elements thrown in there for good measure . The film spends far too much time showing annoying American teens wondering around this old hotel in the dark , it just doesn't make for particularly entertaining viewing & gets very boring very quickly . The script is predictable & is nothing more than a teen slasher with some tenuous supernatural elements along with an obligatory twist ending which didn't do much for me at all to be honest as I thought it was pretty ineffectual . There is one amazing scene I just couldn't work out , in it one of the annoying American high school teens examines a twenty year old blood stain & determines that whoever left the stain was trying to hide something ! How on Earth do you work that out ? Also it turns out that whatever the victim was trying to hide they hid inside an nearby air vent so when they were killed how could they have been trying to hide something when they had clearly already hidden it ? Also why didn't the police find that severed hand in the vent only a few feet away ? According to earlier exposition the police had ' torn the place apart ' looking for clues so why not find that severed hand only a few feet away from a murder victim ? The police obviously didn't do a very good job , did they ? There's no explanation as to how or why there's a ghost in the hotel or how it manages to alter reality or how it can transport people back in time & , of course , the annoying American teens mobile phones don't work for no apparent reason either so they get isolated from the outside world in a now obligatory plot device for low budget horror films . The story doesn't engage or entertain , that character's are both poor & annoying , the plot is forgettable & not that much actually happens . The hotel sets or locations ( not sure if they filmed in a real hotel or in a studio ) are quite nice but why are some of the lights on ? Wouldn't the electricity have been turned off ? Horror wise there's not much to get excited about here , there's a few bloody corpses & what looks like a bamboo stick stuck through someone but not much else & there's not much in the way of scares since the less than impressive CGI computer effects have the opposite effect & make things almost laughable . There are one or two bits with a decent atmosphere but it's never sustained for any period of time . The film seems to take itself very seriously & there's no humour or fun to be seen anywhere which doesn't help when the plot feels so stale & lethargic . To give it some credit there are a few period flashbacks at the end which are quite nicely done I suppose . With a supposed budget of about $2 , 000 , 000 this has better production values than a lot of recent low budget horror but that's hardly any sort of recommendation on it's own . Filmed in Los Angeles . The only real cast member of note is cult German born actor Udo Kier who doesn't look interested at all & to my eyes seems to put on more weight in every subsequent film he makes ( the Steven Seagal of the low budget horror world ! ) . Pray for Morning is a dull supernatural teen horror slasher that doesn't satisfy on any level really , never mind pray for morning I would suggest that most audiences will be praying for it to finish not too long after it has started .
Boring none event of a horror film .	Satanic starts as teenager Michelle ( Annie Sorell ) wakes up in hospital with amnesia & her face completely bandaged up , surgeon Doctor Barbary ( Angus Scrimm ) tells Michelle she was involved in a horrific car accident that has left her with no face , no memory of who she is or was & her father ( George Tovar ) dead . Barbary says to Michelle that he can recreate her face with the use of family photo's & that nobody will ever be able to tell the difference which he does with amazing success , with both her parents dead & memory loss Michelle is placed into Harmony House a halfway stop for troubled teens run by Bisson ( Rick Dean ) & his wife Jackie ( Diane Goldner ) . Once there Michelle tries to regain her memory & find out who she is but terrifying nightmares & a constant feeling something is wrong means Michelle doesn't settle & when her fellow troubled teens start to turn up dead there appears to be more to Michelle & her past than everyone first thought . . . Sitting down to watch the very bland , mundane & generically titled Satanic last night I had never heard of it before , I didn't know what it was about & my hopes were not too hight but seeing genre favourite & fine actor Jeffrey Combs name appear during the credits peaked my interest a bit although one has to say that Satanic can be summed up quite nicely by saying Combs is the best aspect of it yet he has nothing more than a cameo that last's for no more than five minutes which he probably shot in half a day . Co-produced & directed by Dan Golden I would describe Satanic as a supernatural thriller that isn't very supernatural apart from some rubbish about a Ouija board & definitely isn't very thrilling due to it's snail like pace . I suppose whether you will like Satanic will depend on how good you find the twist ending , I must admit it did wake me up a bit & the basic concept is actually solid but like the rest of the film it's done in such a poor , cheap , lifeless & lethargic way that it doesn't have the impact that it should . The main problem with Satanic is that the first seventy odd minutes is nothing more than a really boring build-up to the twist which feels like it goes on forever , this might have worked better as a shorter , sharper thirty odd minutes Tales from the Crypt ( 1989 - 1996 ) style horror anthology episode . Look , more or less nothing happens for over an hour & then it tries to pack in a twist & becomes some sort of teen slasher in the final twenty odd minutes . Apparently this had the working title Demon Board & the whole film looks pretty cheap throughout , even the supposed halfway house just looks like an ordinary house . There's not that much horror here , there's not much gore either . There's a burnt face , someone's wrist's are slashed , a couple of dead bodies are seen with a bit of blood splatter but nothing to write home about . With a supposed budget of about $120 , 000 Satanic looks as low budget as it was apparently was . I would suspect that a bit of that budget was spent on a couple of familiar genre faces with Jeffrey Combs ( who needs a new agent ) & Angus Scrimm who is probably best know to horror fans as the Tall Man from the Phantasm series of flicks . Satanic is a rather dull , forgettable & boring film that doesn't really have anything going for it apart from a couple of cameo's from genre favourites & a reasonable twist ending that could have been the films saving grace if it had been done properly . Not good .
" Do NOT sit next to Dennis . " Awful teen horror / comedy .	Cabin fever starts with Henry the Hermit ( Arie Verveen ) trying to wake his pet dog & discovering that he is in very bad shape . Five vacationing teenagers , two couples Paul ( Rider Strong ) & Karen ( Jordan Ladd ) , Jeff ( Joey Kern ) & Marcy ( Cerina Vincent ) plus their bachelor friend Bert ( James DeBello ) head to an isolated cabin situated in woods deep in Reneck country . Before long they are hassled by the now extremely ill Henry . The teenagers panic & refuse to go near the disease ridden & potentially contagious Henry who tries to steal their car . In an ensuing struggle the car is badly damaged & Henry disappears into the woods when he is set on fire . The five friends decide to tell the truth to the police , but first they need to get back to town . Bert starts to fix the car , but soon Karen starts to develop the skin markings that Henry had signifying that she has the disease . Paranoia sets in as the friends begin to turn against each other in a desperate bid for survival & the pursuit of self preservation . But flesh-eating virus's are not their only problem as a group of local Redneck's decide to clean their woods up & when they finally manage to contact the authorities & police they get an unexpected reception . . . Written , produced & directed by Eli Roth who also plays the weed smoking ( art imitating life ? ! ) Justin , I thought Cabin Fever was a pretty poor attempt at a teen horror / comedy . The script by Roth & his roommate in film school Randy Pearlstein misses most of what it tries to achieve by a proverbial mile . The comedy elements come across as just plain weird , what the hell is up with that Dennis ( Matthew Helms ) kid with his hand biting & kung-fu fighting nonsense ? I thought I was watching The Matrix ( 1999 ) for a few seconds at one point ! That annoying bike riding Deputy Winston ( Giuseppe Andrews ) is obviously meant to be the comedy relief character but he comes across as a complete buffoon , a police officer would simply not act in the way he does & the film loses a lot of credibility by having this idiot running around . I also found Bert highly irritating as yet another comedy relief character , two of these comedy relief characters in the same film would be fine except that in Cabin Fever neither of them are funny in the slightest . The horror elements fare little better , the origins of the flesh-eating virus is never discussed or explained & generally speaking Cabin Fever is not scary , has no atmosphere or tension & comes across as rather bland . Cabin Fever rips-off or pays homage , whichever way you want to look at it , to far superior films from the like's of Night of the Living Dead ( 1968 ) to Deliverance ( 1971 ) & The Evil Dead ( 1981 ) . Peoples reactions are all wrong & feel out of place , why does Bert not try to fix the car straight away instead of leaving it till the next day ? Why , if there's a flesh-eating virus killing your friends would someone take the time to have a bath & shave her legs like she was getting ready to go out for the night ? Why if you have the opportunity to possibly obtain help would you not because you recognise a photo of the guy who was ill to begin with ? Would you take a gun on vacation with you so you could ' shoot squirrel's ' ? Why would a dog literary tear someone apart & scatter their body parts everywhere ? Would one of the last two remaining survivors really stay behind to pack his bag & carry all the beer they borough under his arm ? I could carry on about all the daft & stupid things which happen in Cabin Fever but I'd run out of space , this must be blamed on writer & director Roth . On a positive note I quite liked most of the characters , Deputy Winston & Bert excepted . It's very well made with some nice cinematography & good special make-up effects although I actually found the gore levels to be somewhat disappointing . There is a scene where someone's face is rotted away to their skull , a mutilated burned corpse , various brief shots of body parts & blood splattered locations , a few skin blemishes , a few dead animals including a dog & some rabbits & a legless corpse in a cave . The acting is decent enough , it's just a shame the material they were given to work with is of such a low standard . The film has a certain polish throughout that belies it's fairly low $1 . 5 million budget . Overall I didn't like Cabin Fever , the mix of horror & comedy just didn't work . There is nothing new or original about Cabin Fever & as a whole left me both perplexed & irritated . Extremely disappointing & of very little entertainment value especially to horror fans whom I think would feel insulted by this , I do . I just wish I knew what that freaky kid Dennis was all about , unfortunately I'm not going to sit through any of the five ( ! ) commentary tracks on the DVD to try & find out what on Earth Roth was thinking . . .
Pretty bad , ineffective psychological horror film .	Room 6 starts normally for Amy ( Christine Taylor ) & her fiancé Nick ( Shane Brolly ) just like any other day of the week until he proposes to her , on their way home that afternoon they are involved in a car crash where Nick injures his leg . Help soon arrives & Nick is taken away in an ambulance along with the sister of Lucas ( Jerry O'Connell ) who were also involved in the accident , however neither Amy or Lucas are told which Hospital their loved ones are taken too . Amy & Lucas both head for the nearest Hospital but they know nothing of who they seek , in fact they phone all the Hospital's in the local area & none of them seem to have admitted Nick or Lucas's sister . Where are they ? The police won't help them & they have to find them on their own , but where do they even start ? Co-written & directed by Michael Hurst Room 6 seems to be one of those films which divides opinion having looked at various other reviews & comment on it from around the internet & the IMDb , personally I'm firmly in the camp that dislikes it . The script by Hurst & co-producer Mark A . Altman takes itself very seriously & starts off promisingly enough with an intriguing premise that grabs you , unfortunately it all falls apart as it goes all weird with scenes that make no sense in context with the rest of the film , the character's are poor , the dialogue not much better & then there's the terrible ' twist ' ending which had me reaching for the ' off ' button on my remote , as soon as the credits started to roll it was pressed . To my eyes it never tied things together properly or with any great satisfaction , it all left me rather unmoved & the fact that it's pretty slow going doesn't help either . I think the length might have been a problem as well , to fill out a 90 odd minute feature film the filmmakers obviously had to pad the simplistic story out , it relies on it's ' twist ' ending for it's impact & a lot of what goes before just seems pointless , I think overall Room 6 would have been so much better if it was a tight little 30 odd minute Tales from the Crypt ( 1989 - 1996 ) episode , then again thinking about it Room 6 & the 90 minutes I spent last night watching it would have been much better if it had never been made . . . Director Hurst doesn't do anything special , it's got cheap TV film written all over it . It's all rather flat , bland & forgettable . He goes for psychological horror rather than in your face horror , unfortunately the story is weak , the ' twist ' at the end is poor & as a whole I found it all very unsatisfying & a bit of a waste of time . Forget about any violence or gore as there isn't any . With a supposed budget of about $1 , 000 , 000 Room 6 is an average production at best , I'll probably have completely forgotten about it by the end of tomorrow . The acting was poor , I never cared for anyone & again since the ' twist ' ending relies on you doing so so much the film suffers . Room 6 is one of those films which seems to think having a clever ' twist ' ending is all that matters , unfortunately Room 6 doesn't have a clever twist ending . I pretty much hated it , definitely not recommended .
Another masterpiece from DeCoteau , not .	Witches of the Caribbean starts late one night on a picturesque Carribbean island where a young guy named Dino ( Owen Steuart ) hears someone calling him , he wanders around trying to find out who but a mysterious cloaked figure rips his heart out . . . Professor Avebury ( Joanna Cassidy ) runs a program for troubled teens & has decided to hold sessions on a Caribbean island , perk of the job I suppose . Avebury's last guest has just arrived , Angela ( Nicole Cavazos ) who has been suffering from a recurring dream of a witch being burned alive 100's of years ago . Angela is introduced to everyone , Bethany ( Nicole Marie Monica ) , Clara ( Kelli Giddish ) , Enid ( Nina Tapinin ) , Cutter ( Micael King ) & Jerry ( Kyle Jordon ) . Bethany is a self proclaimed witch & befriends Angela , she influences her & reveals to Angela that they share the same dream . As the dream becomes more & more vivid Angela changes , Bethany twists the facts & convinces her that only she can help her . But what is Bethany's motivation , how come she appears to have magical powers & what sinister plan does she have in store for the vulnerable Angela ? Directed by David DeCoteau I thought Witches of the Caribbean was a poor attempt at a horror film . The script by Janna K . Arnold is simplistic , unoriginal & doesn't really interest . At points the film is OK & it moves along at a fair pace while at other's it becomes mind numbingly tedious to sit through . The story itself about a reincarnated witch isn't anything particularly new & Witches of the Caribbean does nothing to distinguish itself apart from the location but even then that was probably chosen so the filmmakers could have a nice holiday in the Caribbean for a few days , it's nice work if you can get it ! The cast is made up entirely of teens most of whom annoy & the climactic showdown at the end is pathetically staged & I'm pretty sure I could have done a better job , if that wasn't bad enough DeCoteau then has the nerve to make us watch one of those predictable throwaway sequel driven twist endings . Overall there is very little by which I can recommend Witches of the Caribbean as there are so many more better horror films out there . Director DeCoteau has over 50 low budget sex / horror films to his ' credit ' , he usually hides under a pseudonym ( in some case under a woman's name ) so for him to put his real name to this I shudder to think of the quality , or lack of , of the other films he's made . There is no excitement , atmosphere or scares but I have to give him some credit for assembling a fine looking cast of young ladies . . . There are one or two gory moments all revolving around people having their hearts ripped out . Going straight to video , where it belongs I might add , Witches of the Caribbean was filmed in the Turks & Caicos Islands wherever they are & amazingly , according to the IMDb , was shot between 14th December 2003 & 19th December 2003 ! It took five days to shoot this ? What took them so long ? It's also interesting to note that it sat on a shelf for two years before being released in ' 05 . As a whole it's reasonably well made considering the budget , shooting schedule etc . There is quite a catchy pop tune as part of the soundtrack which I found myself liking . Again , a mention for the ladies whom are all very easy on the eyes especially when they get the black goth look going . Witches of the Caribbean is watchable at best & that's being generous . At least it doesn't last for very long & isn't as bad as some low budget straight to video crap that I've sat through lately . You could do worse , but not much , but you could do better , a lot better .
" If the house disappeared then technically it's only missing . " Not as bad as Poltereist III but still pretty bad .	Poltergeist II : The Other Side starts with an ominous conversation between an Indian shaman named Taylor ( Will Sampson ) & the magic midget spiritualist Tangina ( Zelda Rubenstein ) stating that they believe the evil is still after the Freeling family . Steve ( Craig T . Nelson ) his wife Diane ( JoBeth Williams ) & their two young children Robbie ( Oliver Robins ) & Carol Anne ( Heather O'Rourke ) are broke after losing their house & are living with Diane's Mother Jessica ( Geraldine Fitzgerald ) who suddenly dies one night in her sleep . Soon after Carol Anne receives a phone call on her toy plastic phone from her Gran , she starts to draw disturbing pictures & a ghostly figure dressed in black begins to haunt her . The Indian shaman Taylor contacts the Freelings to warn them & offer his help to protect Carol Anne whom is the target of evil spirits belonging to a long dead preacher named Rev . Henry Kane ( Julian Beck ) & his followers . As the usual assortment of ghostly goings on begin to happen Taylor convinces Steve that he & his family must face Kane on the other side & put an end to his evil once & for all . . . Directed by Brian Gibson I thought Poltergeist II : The Other Side was a ridiculously bad film . Without the guidance of Steven Spielberg it's obvious this would turn into a disaster of otherworldly proportions ! The script by Michael Grais & Mark Victor throws in all sorts of magical nonsense like the shaman who has the power to make leaves fly & talk to cars . The speeches he gives to Steve especially in a sequence in a desert are embarrassingly bad to sit through , the religious good vs . evil rubbish that comes out of his mouth really is cringe worthy . Poltergeist II : The Other Side also adds this preacher character to confuse things even further , to be fair he makes for a sinister villain even if he isn't in it a great deal . The film is too slow for the first half & tries to cram too much into it's second . The supernatural attacks lack imagination & are dull , director Gibson fails to create , build or sustain any sort of atmosphere , menace or tension & I was literary laughing & shaking my head in disbelief at some of these scenes . When the family are attacked in their garage by a floating chainsaw , electrical wires & a few spanners was so lamely handled as to be totally ineffectual & who'd have thought a scene involving a possessed chainsaw could be ineffectual ? The part when Robbie's braces come to life & engulf him had potential but Gibson does nothing with the scene except cover the kid in metal for a couple of minutes until it magically disappears . The best scene is when Steve swallows a worm thing while drinking & becomes possessed until he vomits a slimy monster that resembles Rev . Kane up & it continues to grow into a huge thing with lots of tentacles , unfortunately Gibson manages to mess this scene up as well trying to do far too much with obviously limited special effects & having this creature shoot blue laser bolts out of it's whatever it's meant to be , this is Poltergeist II : The Other Side not Star Wars ( 1979 ) ! Then it just simply disappears into thin air , these evil spirits aren't trying very hard are they ? I also have to mention the horrible ending when the Freeling family finally cross over to the other side , again the special effects are lame , the love conquers all climax is puke worthy & as they all happily walk away they hug , shake hands & pat each others backs & to add insult to injury Poltergeist II : The Other Side rounds off a really bad running joke about a car that made me hate this film even more . Technically Poltergeist II : The Other Side is OK & considering it's supposed $19 , 000 , 000 I would expect so , having said that the special optical effects are generally quite poor & as a whole it's a bland unremarkable film in the way it's constructed . The acting is fair , I never really liked anyone that much but at the same time no one got on my nerves . Personally I think Poltergeist II : The Other Side is a poor film that fails miserably at trying to be scary , adds nothing to the haunted house genre & the only positive thing I can say about it is that at least it's not as bad as Poltergeist III ( 1988 ) . There are many , many better films out there for you to be wasting your time with this mess of a film , one to avoid if at all possible .
" It was big & hairy . . . just like your Mother . " " We may be dumb but we ain't stupid . " Really boring ' creature feature ' .	The Unknown is set in the small Pacific Northwest town of ' Pine Creek ' & it's surrounding forest's & in particular an area called ' Echo Mountain ' which has been the location of a series a mysterious disappearances & the center of lots of local legends about monsters . While out illegally poaching Ed Janzer ( Miles O'Keefe ) & three of his mates ( Don Brady , Paul Cagney & Art Hickman ) are attacked by something which slaughters Ed's mates & almost kills him but is saved by Indian forest Ranger John Eagleheart ( Nathaniel Arcand ) , back in town & the general theory is that they were killed by a Grizzly Bear while Mayor Potts ( John Patrick Lowrie ) tells Sheriff Kassel ( Jack Conley ) to try & keep things as low key as possible & keep it out of the papers in fear of bad publicity . Meanwhile Ed has rounded three more of his mates up & head off into the wilderness for some revenge . At the local high school two pupils Jay Kelter ( Brandon Henschel ) & Richard Winslow ( Dylan Purcell ) are forced to work together & hand a report in on endangered species or they will both fail , along with a couple of chicks Shae ( Casey LaBow ) & Jenny ( Chelsea Hobbs ) they head off to Echo Mountain to gain some ' feild ' experience & impress their teacher . I won't bother saying anything else as you can easily fill in the blanks yourself . . . Co-edited , co-written , co-produced & directed by Karl Kozak The Unknown in my humble opinion is boring low budget crap , it's as simple & straight forward as that . The script by Kozak & Don J . Rearden is far too slow & boring to have any impact , after the first ten minutes when the three poachers are killed it's the best part of three quarters of an hour before anything even remotely exciting happens & someone is killed , imagine all that time just sitting there watching a really slow , dull & boring film pass by as the hope that something will happen rapidly turns into desperation . There are simply not enough attacks in a film that has no other redeeming features , the character's are OK in context but they're still dull & clichéd , the angry hunter , the good natured Sheriff , the corrupt town official worried about bad publicity & scaring tourists away & of course the horny teenagers . A lot of the story doesn't make much sense , what is the creature protecting ? Why did Ed shoot his mate ? What the hell happened at the end ? Everyone just sort of stands there for ages . What are those stupid flashbacks all about ? Are we to believe that this creature is in fact 100's of years old ? After three armed men are brutally killed four teenagers decide to spend the night in the same location for a school project ? These kids are stupid yes , but that stupid ? Most of The Unknown is just people walking through a forest , well that's the overall impression I'm left with anyway . I can't believe how many people have given this piece O ' rubbish a good review , I clicked on three of the users who gave The Unknown 8 stars or above & they all only have one comment which really isn't a surprise is it ? I am in hysterics at how these comments try to paint this film as deep , scary & meaningful ! Director Kozak does a pretty good job on a low budget , although obviously shot on video The Unknown has good production values & the locations used are nice & have have lots of trees . Forget about any scares , shocks or surprises because there aren't any , at all . Forget about any gore either , the opening scenes feature two mangled bodies & someone whose guts slide out of their stomach wound but apart from that it's just the odd splash of fake blood . At the end of The Unknown a video tape of the creature is given to a news program who give it to an expert who claims that it's a hoax & is nothing more than a ' guy in a monkey suit ' , well I reckon he's giving them too much credit because the Bigfoot creature in this looks really naff . With a supposed budget of about $700 , 000 The Unknown was filmed in 2003 but not released until 2005 , need I say anymore ? The acting was OK , hey I don't mind giving credit where it's due . The Unknown is a really boring Bigfoot film , there's no gore , no scares , a dumb looking creature , really bad dialogue like ' we may be dumb but we ain't stupid ' & a ' join-the-dots ' plot . This is one to avoid , watch Night of the Demon ( 1980 ) again instead as it's the perfect example of how a killer Bigfoot film should be done . Released on DVD under the title Clawed : The Legend of Sasquatch although a bucket of s % t still smells as bad under any name .
Low budget sci-fi martial arts rubbish .	CyberTracker is set in Los Angeles sometime in the near future where bodyguard Eric Phillips ( co-producer Don ' The Dragon ' Wilson ) saves senator Robert Dilly ( John Aprea ) from an assassination attempt by a group known as the UHR , the Union of Human Rights , who are angry at Dilly for spearheading the Computerised Judicial System in which robots called CyberTrackers are sent out to determine & dispense justice on the guilty . Anyway , Eric saves Dilly who is very impressed & decides to see if he can trust Eric in his shady activities like the cold blooded murder of a traitor , being the fine upstanding guy that he is Eric isn't impressed when Dilly kills a woman & he is asked to keep it quiet . Eric escapes & sets out to bring Dilly down , however Dilly has lots of powerful friends & he uses his influence to frame Eric & have his CyberTrackers sent out in pursuit of him . . . Co-produced & directed by Richard Pepin I think films like CyberTracker give films a bad name , I didn't like it that much at all . The script by Jacobsen Hart is pretty predictable , it doesn't excite , it steals most of it's ideas & theme from other better sci-fi films & the heady mix of martial arts action & sci-fi don't gel that well . There a few fights , some car chases & a couple of shoot outs but it's all rather bland & forgettable . The film lacks imagination considering the film is set in the future & it deals with robots , technology & the way society is run & it's judicial system in particular . Speaking of which the fantastic Robocop ( 1987 ) mixed it's violent action & clever social commentary brilliantly but CyberTracker doesn't even try to make any relevant social statement or try to portray any meaningful moral message about law enforcement , the script basically uses the concept to have robots & shoot outs which Robocop did as well but also managed to include a good story . There is very little in CyberTracker that I can say was entertaining & that's what films are about right ? Director Pepin does OK but nothing stands out , it's all rather forgettable & it's not particularly exciting . The sci-fi elements are nothing more than the robot side of things & as a whole the film doesn't look that futuristic . The action scenes are alright , there's some exploding cars & some shoot outs but nothing spectacular . Technically CyberTracker is average , for a film supposedly set in the future it already looks dated & the special effects are poor . The acting was bad , I wonder if Don ' The Dragon ' Wilson signs cheques with that name ? CyberTracker was a waste of my time , there is nothing here original or exciting & the action is instantly forgettable . Poor & that's all that needs to be said , not recommended .
Good idea , average execution .	Dr Stephens ( Micheal Harvey ) runs a mental asylum . He has a different approach to the insane . He conducts unorthodox methods of treatment . He treats everyone like family , there are no locks on the patients doors and he lets some of the inmates act out their twisted fantasies . He lets Sergeant Jaffee ( Hugh Feagin ) dress and act as a soldier and Harriet ( Camilla Carr ) be a mother to a doll , including letting her put it to bed in a cot . Dr . Stevens is outside letting Judge Oliver W . Cameron ( Gene Ross ) chop a log up with an axe , it turns out to be a bad move as once Dr . Stevens back is turned the Judge plants the axe in his shoulder . Soon after Nurse Charlotte Beale ( Rosie Holotik ) arrives at the Sanitarium having arranged an interview with Dr . Stevens about a possible job . She is met by the head Nurse , Geraldine Masters ( Annabelle Weenick as Anne McAdams ) and is offered a trail position . She gets to know and becomes well liked among the patients . However things eventually start to turn sour , the phone lines are cut , an old lady named Mrs . Callingham ( Rhea MacAdams ) has her tongue cut out and she starts to get a strange feeling that things just aren't right somehow . Then , one night all the Sanitariums dark secrets are violently revealed . Produced and directed by S . f . Brownrigg this film has a great central idea which builds into a cool twist ending , but ultimately is a bit of a chore to sit through because of it's low budget restrictions and a rather slow script by Tim Pope . There are just too many long boring stretches of dialogue by the inmates , not a lot really happens until the final twenty odd minutes . The film has no real visual quality as it's set entirely in the Sanitarium and it's grounds which is basically just a big bland house in the middle of nowhere . There's no graphic gore in it , a few splashes of blood here and there and thats yer lot . There's a bit of nudity , but like the gore not much . The acting is pretty strong , especially Holotik and Weenick . The photography is flat and unexciting and I can't even remember what the music was like . The twist ending is great , but it just takes far too long to get to it . A film that had a lot of potential that was probably held back by it's budget . OK I guess , but I think it would have worked a lot better if the story had been turned into a half an hour ' Tales form the Crypt ' episode .
One of the most boring films I've ever sat through .	Burnt Offerings starts as Ben Rolf ( Oliver Reed ) , his wife Marion ( Karen Black ) & their young son David ( Lee Montgomery ) decide the chance to rent a huge mansion for the summer for a paltry $900 is too good to turn down , the only condition set by current owner's Roz ( Eileen Heckart ) & her brother Arnold Allardyce ( Burgess Meredith ) is that they feed their mother who lives in a room upstairs which the Rolf's agree to . They move in together with their aunt Elizabeth ( Bette Davis ) & Marion starts to clean the place up , Ben settles down to do some work & David explores the house . However it's not long before they strange things start to happen , their personalities start to change , they begin to argue & grow apart , near fatal accidents happen & Marion becomes obsessed with the house in a way that threatens their very lives . . . Co-written , produced & directed by Dan Curtis I have to say that I thought Burnt Offerings was one of the most boring films I've seen in a long time , I mean scenes of people walking around a big house doing nothing in particular just becomes boring after almost 2 straight hours of it . The script by Curtis & William F . Nolan was based on a novel of the same name by Robert Marasco , even though you may automatically think Burnt Offerings is a haunted house flick it isn't really in the sense that there's no ghosts & the major plot point which takes forever to get to is that the house regenerates itself through death & violent acts committed by it's inhabitants which in itself isn't a bad idea I suppose but the film is so slow & boring I lost almost all interest in it before the extremely stupid so-called twist ending which I figured out about halfway through . In fact the ending doesn't really sit that well with the main story & in the end it's just a bit of a mess that goes nowhere very slowly . There are only four character's in it , the Rolf family themselves & none of them are particularly likable , the dialogue is alright but forgettable & for a film that lasts 110 minutes not that much actually happens , or at least it didn't feel like it . Director Curtis is better known as a producer & director of TV show's , in fact Burnt Offerings was his only theatrical feature film & it show's with so much padding it's untrue . The film also looks like a TV show with fairly standard cinematography & a bland uninspiring look to it . This is a debatable point but I didn't think Burnt Offerings was scary at all & had zero atmosphere . The title Burnt Offerings means little as nothing or no-one is burnt although the Rolf family being left to the house's mercy by the Allardyce's could be described as a sacrificial offering . Technically the film is OK but bland & dull which is explained by director Curtis ' TV background . Filmed at Dunsmuir House & Gardens in Oakland in California & it makes a nice enough location although it gets repetitive . The acting isn't great , the kid is annoying , Reed isn't interested & Black is just awful , apparently she was 4 months pregnant when she shot this . Burnt Offerings has a few nice ideas but they are lost in a long , boring , tedious & frankly repetitive film that goes nowhere & takes nearly 2 hours to get there . Not recommended unless you suffer from insomnia .
Nothing to get excited about .	Black Cadillac starts late one night in the isolated Wisconsin forests as three high-school friends Scott ( Shane Johnson ) his younger brother Robbie ( Jason Dohring ) & CJ ( Josh Hammond ) barely make it out of a roadside bar after a big fight , they get into their car & speed off . As they try to put a few miles between the bar & themselves they notice a sinister black Cadillac speeding up behind them , the Cadillac tailgates them & becomes aggressive . As the three friends try to reach the safety of their homes the black Cadillac keeps on coming after them , the Cadillac seems to be forcing the friends deeper into the isolated wilderness but for what purpose exactly ? Directed by John Murlowski a caption after the opening credits informs us the audience that Black Cadillac was ' based on a true story ' , looking at the IMDb ' Trivia ' section for Black Cadillac it seems the director Murlowski bases this on events from his own experience when a car chased him for several miles through backwoods roads . Unfortunately that is about as interesting as Black Cadillac gets & I would hardly call Black Cadillac based on a true story from that slim incident . Anyway , the script by Will Aldis starts off well enough with a fairly intriguing premise but the film quickly descends into total repetitiveness & goes nowhere very quickly . The main problem I had with Black Cadillac is that it sets up a potentially good story but then ruins everything with a truly awful & contrived ending that destroys everything that has gone before it . For the majority of Black Cadillac it felt very similar to Dead End ( 2003 ) & for that reason I genuinely thought that it was going to end with some sort of twist , you something that turns all the events upside down but Black Cadillac has a terrible ending where everything that has happened comes down to someone having an affair with someone else's wife . Truly the most lacklustre & routine ending the makers could have come up with which contradicts some of the more supernatural & mysterious elements from earlier in the film . Overall the film is very slow going , the character's are quite well fleshed out but it all amounts to nothing & feels more like padding once the film finishes . I really did think Black Cadillac was building up-to something good , boy was I wrong . Director Murlowski does alright , the film is competent but little else . There's not much style here & disappointingly Black Cadillac has a lowly body count of two both of whom die at the very end . There's no gore so forget about that . Overall Black Cadillac is maybe more of a thriller than a horror , there certainly isn't much on show that I would specifically class as out and out horror . There are one or two effective scenes but they count for little when the ending comes around . There also a few scenes which stretch a largely serious films credibility , in particular a scene when the Cadillac literally runs into someone & pins then against a wall yet later on this person manages to walk just fine & seems unharmed . Technically the film is fine , it's not going to win any awards but it's competent . The acting is alright , in fact it's not too bad at all . Despite top billing in the credits Randy Quaid isn't in it that much . Black Cadillac felt like a Dead End rip-off all the way until the disappointingly mundane ending which is just about the most lacklustre & dull way the makers could have finished the film . So , a largely slow moving film which basically leads up to absolutely nothing .
Low budget horror crap .	Ghost Lake starts at the funeral of Ruth ( Linda Brown ) & Richard Haster ( Raymond Suriani ) as their distraught daughter Rebecca ( Tatum Adair ) looks on , not feeling that good about things Rebecca decides to head to her parents cottage in a small town near Rushford Lake . On her way Rebecca picks up a hitchhiker named Stan James ( Timothy Prindle ) who also lives near the lake , they quickly become friends as Rebecca still feels bad about her parents & needs a shoulder to cry on . However , things take a turn for the worse as a terrifying set of events happen to Rebecca , first she finds the body of a dead fisherman in the lake , she sees zombies walking around & a strange girl keeps popping up . Sheriff Dobbs ( Gregory Lee Kenyon ) reveals that Rushford Lake has a dark & sinister past that Rebecca feels is the cause of her troubles . As Rebecca unravels the truth about the ghosts , zombies , bodies & the Lakes history she discovers great evil . . . Written & directed by Jay Woelfel who also appears in the film as a ' shadowy figure ' & if that wasn't enough he also composed the music , is there no beginning to this mans talents ? ! OK , maybe that was a bit harsh but I personally thought Ghost Lake was a pretty dire film all round . The script takes itself extremely seriously & to be fair starts off alright as it builds reasonably well , it has a certain something about it that kept me interested but once all this nonsense about the 13th month , 13 victims & various other things that contain the number 13 kick in it all starts to become confusing , muddled & far too complicated . I don't think Ghost Lake makes itself particularly clear & that has to be down to the script & Woelfel , I don't think Ghost Lake comes across as a straight horror film as instead of going for scares & gore it tries to develop a complex mystery which just isn't that interesting or engaging , imagine a low rent The X-Files ( 1992 - 2002 ) episode . There is a good film trying to get out but unfortunately it fails , it's different & tries to surprise but I think it's predictable & I think twists need to be clever & relatively simple to work & be effective , Ghost Lake's twists are none of those things . Forget about any hordes of zombies rising from the lake as suggested on the DVD / video artwork , it doesn't happen as this is a straight faced ghost story rather than a zombie film . Director Woelfel was obviously working on a low budget so I'll cut it a little slack . Having said that it still looks cheap , bland , forgettable , flat & extremely dull . Forget about any scares , atmosphere or tension as there isn't any . There isn't any gore either , there's a few ghost / zombies & a few rotten corpses but nothing else , this is really tame stuff all the way . Technically Ghost Lake isn't too bad considering it's low budget shot-on-video origins , the best thing I can say about it is that it's competent . The acting didn't impress & I didn't like any of the character's particularly . Ghost lake is a pretty bad film overall , it has virtually no horror elements , the various twists are dull & just don't work out in any sort of satisfying way & the artwork on the box really is very misleading . Not recommended .
Another dull , faceless & throughly generic ' Creature Feature ' .	Eye of the Beast is set on Fell's Island in Canada where a small fishing community lives along with local natives . The fish stock in the waters around Fell's Island have drastically fallen to almost zero & the local economy is suffering , marine biologist Dan Leland ( James Van Der Beek ) is sent in ti investigate & conduct some experiments . It's not long before h has a theory , Dan comes to the conclusion that a giant man-eating Squid lives in the waters around Fell's Island that after having eaten all the fish decides to eat the only other thing left , namely people . Dan teams up with local fisheries official Kat Tomas ( Alexandra Castillo ) & salty sea-dog captain Gunnar Thorson ( Arne MacPherson ) to track the beast down & kill it before more lives are lost . . . This Canadian production was directed by Gary Yates & is yet another totally forgettable & utterly generic Sci-Fi Channel ' Creature Feature ' of which there seems to be an endless supply although no matter how bad they get I always seem boneheaded enough to sit down & watch the bloody things . Right , where to start ? Eye of the Beast features all the usual clichés of the genre , a small isolated community , some sort of giant or mutated creature , some shallow attempts at social commentary & meaning & some scientist or other who teams up with some local authority figure . It's all here , you can practically tick the boxes off as Eye of the Beast progresses & everything you expect to happen does . My main problem with Eye of the Beast is that it's slow , there's barely any Squid attacks , minimal gore & the Squid only really gets any screen time two minutes before the thing finishes . Virtually nothing happens for the first hour or so . The film is also very dull to watch with dull character's who have little or no personality , it's quite well made & competent but throughly uninvolving or exciting which is worse than being badly made & unintentionally funny for instance which at least would have given it some entertainment value . The highlight of the script is a fairly amusing conversation about why fishing is better than sex with quips like if you catch something fishing it doesn't matter , if you mom catches you fishing alone it's OK . . . You would think that a ' Creature Feature ' about a giant Squid would actually focus on the giant Squid but Eye of the Beast decides not to & instead sticks to boring dramatics as the locals argue amongst themselves . The Squid doesn't get much screen time , in fact apart from a couple of rubber tentacles the Squid is only seen about two minutes before the film finishes in what I must admit is a fairly decent CGI computer effect but since that's the only CGI effect in the entire film that's where the budget must have went . There's no gore here either , sure there's a severed leg , a torn off arm & a ripped cheek but it doesn't amount to anything much . With a supposed budget of about $2 , 000 , 000 this was shot in Canada & it has competent production values & looks alright . The acting is OK , James Van Der Beek with designer stubble of Dawson's Creek ( 1998 - 2003 ) fame is the obvious name actor here . Eye of the Beast is a throughly dull & generic ' Creature Feature ' that is totally forgettable in it's competent yet unexciting blandness . There are much better ' Creature Feature ' flicks out there , don't bother with this one .
" Violence sells & you've got to give the people what they want . " Terrible 80's slasher .	Sleepaway Camp III : Teenage Wasteland starts with New York teenager Maria Nacastro ( Kashina Kessler ) being run over by a truck driven by homicidal maniac Angela Baker ( Pamela Sprigsteen ) who then takes her identity so she can join the fun at Camp New Horizons run by Herman ( Michael J . Pollard ) & Lily Miranda ( Sandra Dorsey ) . It's a community based scheme where the teenage down & out scum of the earth come together with the well off & privileged to try & help each other out & to , well I'm not sure really . Angela kills off a few of the campers who annoy her , the end . Produced & directed by Michael A . Simpson I thought Sleepaway Camp III : Teenage Wasteland was total crap . The script by Fritz Gordon mixes horror & comedy with slightly more emphasis on comedy which is it's first mistake , it's second mistake is that it's incredibly dull , predictable , unoriginal & is poor even by 80's slasher film standards ( OK , that's mistakes three , four & five as well ) . The character's are among the worst I've ever seen in a slasher film , a genre not exactly know for it's character development or articulate writing anyway . They aren't clichéd because they aren't fleshed out enough to become clichéd , they might as well have used cardboard cutouts & I'm sure the acting would probably have been better as well if they had . To give the film some credit some of the one liners are OK & , erm I'm struggling now . According to the IMDb there is a DVD going around with all the extra gore that was cut for an ' R ' rating although I think they are present on the disc as deleted scenes rather than put back into the film , the thing is Sleepaway Camp III : Teenage Wasteland might have been bearable with some decent gore & it annoys me that obviously a fair amount was cut out . Still , when all said & done this is one crappy film & that's coming from a slasher fan who likes all of the Friday the 13th's , enough said . Director Simpson does nothing to liven things up , the film has a reasonable pace to it but since the kills are so badly edited & cut they look terrible , you get a quick flash & a sound effect & a very obvious jump cut & Lily's lawnmower death is the best example of this . There's absolutely no scares , tension or atmosphere & it's not particularly funny either . I thought Angela was probably the worst killer in a slasher film ever , there's nothing to her , she has no screen presence , she's not scary or cool & I found her annoying more than anything else , oh & she has a really bad 80's hair-do as well . Technically the film is OK , it's set mostly in some woods in tents so I doubt it was the most challenging film to make . I would comment on the special effects but since they were all cut out I can't . The acting was poor , they all deserved to die . Sleepaway Camp III : Teenage Wasteland is a terrible 80's slasher that I thought was boring , lacking any sort of gore or pay-off , trying to be funny & failing & it features the worst killer in slasher history . One to avoid , this followed Sleepaway Camp ( 1983 ) & Sleepaway Camp II : Unhappy Campers ( 1988 ) both of which I'm glad to say I've never seen while this was followed itself by Sleepaway Camp IV : The Survivor ( 2002 ) which was originally started in 1992 but never finished & only about 30 odd minutes of footage was ever completed while to date there has been another sequel called Return to Sleepaway Camp ( 2007 ) due to be released soon .
Unfathomable Saw II style horror film .	Crazy Eights starts as six childhood friends who called themselves the Crazy Eights attend the funeral of a seventh mutual friend Brax , afterwards the six friends learn that Brax left them a map to an old barn & a note saying to find an old wooden chest there . The six travel to the isolated barn & find the chest & along with various childhood trinkets find the rotten skeletal remains of a young girl inside . Shocked they all decide to just go but end up driving round in circles , then they see a large house & decide to ask for directions . One of the friends hurts his leg & the other's take him inside the house which suddenly turns into a hospital where the vengeful spirit of the dead girl stalks the corridors seeking revenge on those who killed her & left her body in the chest . . . One of the entries in that annual 8 Films to Die For After Dark Horrorfest festival thing Crazy Eights was co-edited , co-executive produced , co-produced , co-written & directed by James K . Jones & I have to say it's one of the most poorly written horror films I have seen in a while . For a start the title Crazy Eights is terrible from a marketing point of view , it doesn't tell you anything about the film & the words Crazy Eights will mean nothing to the majority of people . The film itself is no better , there are plot holes galore & a story which is just all over the place . The pace is pretty slow to begin with & the first forty odd minutes is sleep inducing stuff , then there's the almost total lack of exposition or explanation for anything that happens . There's no explanation as to why the six friends can remember each other but not the fact that they were orphans or the fact that they spent time in the hospital , we never really find out anything about the dead girl except that she was killed somehow & she blames the Crazy Eights , despite being trapped inside the hospital there are plenty of glass windows that the character's surely could have broke & climbed out of & there's no reason as to why the house suddenly turns into a hospital or why it's abandoned or where all the pictures & clues scattered throughout came from . The script is a mess , either that or the makers didn't shoot enough footage & merely had to use what they had whether it made sense or not which it most certainly doesn't . The ending is terrible too & doesn't make any sense , I was waiting for some sort of twist but it never comes & the whole film ends in a very blunt , abrupt & unsatisfying way . The set-up during the second half of the film feels very much like Saw II ( 2005 ) as a group of character's are trapped in a single location unaware of what's going on or why they are there & they begin to get killed off one by one , unfortunately Crazy Eights has nothing that made Saw II so good like the twist's & turns , the gore , the clever traps , the surprise ending & quick pacing . Throw in some nonsense about nightmares , some pointless flashbacks , the ghost of a young girl straight out of any Asain horror & you have a confusing mess that leaves the viewer with many unanswered questions as the end credits roll . Crazy Eights just doesn't feel like one coherent film , it's very bitty with a poor plot that is badly written & explained . Even the character's are standard stereotypes & the dialogue is forgettable , overall Crazy Eights is a bit of a mess from start to finish . I must admit that Crazy Eights looks quite nice with one or two nicely lit & shot scenes , unfortunately it's not worth sitting through the rest of the film to see them & in isolation on their own don't add up to much anyway . I don't know if it's just me but this looks cut , whenever there's an opportunity to show some gore the makers either shied away from it or it was cut . This sometimes makes it difficult to understand what is going on in certain scenes , the bit when Gina suddenly clutches her face with blood streaking down her cheeks is a good example as we never see what has happened to her . I assume something has happened to her eyes but we never find out for sure . The only reason this would get an adult rating is because of the profanity rather than the violence or gore of which there is virtually zero . The ghost of the dead girls pops up occasionally but seemingly at random & we never really get a good look at her or even find out who she is or indeed was . The special effects are alright but there's hardly any anyway . Probably shot on a pretty low budget somewhere in Maryland this actually has good production values & looks like a proper film . The experienced cast is pretty good here , to reinforce the Saw connections Dina Meyer who was in Saw ( 2003 ) , Saw II , Saw III ( 2006 ) & Saw IV ( 2007 ) stars here while ex teenage porn star Traci Lords continues to try & make a career as a proper actress . Crazy Eights is a mess of a film that feels like a cross between Saw II & a Asain ghost film but without any of the merits of either of them . No gore , no twist's , a mess of a plot & a slow pace makes Crazy Eights yet another one of the 8 Films to Die For that is quite frankly pants .
" It's like getting married or going to New York City , everyone should do it once , nobody should do it twice . " Dull monster film .	The Giant Gila Monster starts with young lovers Pat Wheeler ( Grady Vaughn ) & Liz Humphries ( Yolanda Salas ) making out in a car when a giant gila lizard attacks sending their car rolling down a hill , then the giant gila lizard moves in for the kill . . . The next morning Pats Dad ( Bob Thompson ) has a few words with Sheriff Jeff ( Fred Graham ) & basically tells him his job & to search for his missing son . Sheriff Jeff heads straight for Pats friend & local mechanic Chase Winstead ( Don Sullivan ) who is one real damn fine human being , I mean this guy is the absolute cream of American youth . He a caring , hard working , banjo playing stand up pillar of the community who even works all the hours god sends to support his Mum ( Gay McLendon ) , sister Missy ( Janice Stone ) & girlfriend Lisa ( Lisa Simone ) after his Dad died , oh & he respects authority too & helps out the local Sheriff whenever he can . Anyway as they investigate Pat & Liz's disappearance they discover various car wrecks & when Chase's boss Mr . Compton ( Cecil Hunt ) becomes the latest victim of the giant gila lizard Sheriff Jeff & Chase think these incidents may be connected , things become even more bizarre when a local drunk named Harris ( Shug Fisher ) claims to have seen a giant lizard . . . Directed by Ray Kellogg this giant 50's monster film really isn't anything to get excited about , Kellogg & the production company also made the much more entertaining The Killer Shrews ( 1959 ) at the same time & intended them both to go out on a double bill together . The script by Jay Simms stretches the thin premise out to an excruciating 74 minutes which is about 73 minutes too long . The Giant Gila Monster is painfully slow & very dull , I wouldn't have thought any film featuring a giant lizard would be but it most definitely is . We occasionally get the odd shot of a real normal gila lizard lazily walking through a model landscape which fails to generate any sort of menace or tension , between these almost random scenes there are plenty of good wholesome American teens doing their thing like dancing horribly to 50's music & , I have to mention it , a terrifying moment when Chase takes his banjo out & starts to play a tune & sing a song to his little sister who appears to lap it up as we get lots of loving reaction shots from everyone , urgh . The Sheriff is a bit of an idiot as well , he just walks around a bit & looks concerned without actually doing anything meaningful . The explanation given for this giant gila lizard lacks any imagination & is given a whole one conversation at the end . This film is a mess , poorly paced , annoying character's , boring situations & a complete lack of anything interesting or entertaining going on plus there are various scenes of people openly drink driving like it's a normal everyday thing which doesn't do it any favours . With a supposed budget of about $138 , 000 technically The Giant Gila Monster isn't too bad , the black and white cinematography is acceptable although the version I saw was extremely dark to the point I could barely see what was happening during the night scenes , I'm not sure if this is a fault with the film itself or just my version although my instincts say the former . The special effects consist entirely of a real gila lizard walking over a model landscape , derailing a toy train & not much else . The gila lizard is never in any shot with a person & I am amazed that this massive lizard can seemingly just sneak up on people without them noticing . The acting is flat & not very impressive . The Giant Gila Monster is a dull film , nothing happens for long stretches , the character's are highly annoying & the gila lizard itself is barely used . There is one funny scene which stops The Giant Gila Monster from being a complete disaster , during a barn dance at the end the gila lizard starts to break the wall down & enter to which Chase calmly says ' don't panic ' , as if anyone would panic because a huge monster is about to eat them . Maybe The Giant Gila Monster will appeal to 50's monster film fans but for everyone else don't bother with this one as there are much better monster films out there & I just can't see many modern audiences getting anything out of this .
For my money Jean Claude Van Damme's worst film .	The Hard Corps starts as notorious killer , gangster , drug dealer & general all round villain Terrell Singletery ( Viv Leacock ) is released from prison after only serving eighteen months of an eight year sentence because of his hot-shot lawyer . No sooner has Terrell left prison & he is arranging the murder of the man who put him there , namely ex-heavyweight boxing champion Wayne Barclay ( Razaaq Adoti ) . His sister Tamara ( Vivica A . Fox ) & business associate Kendall Mullins ( Peter Bryant ) decide to hire Clarence Bowden ( Julian Christopher ) as a bodyguard to protect Wayne who in turn hires ex-army dude Phillippe Sauvage ( Jean Claude Van Damme ) to help him . During an attempt on Wayne's life Clarence is shot & killed which upsets & angers Phillippe who then decides to protect Wayne himself & find those who killed his friend . . . Co-written & directed by Sheldon Lettich this was the fourth time he & JCVD teamed up to make a film after Lionheart ( 1990 ) , Double Impact ( 1991 ) & The Order ( 2001 ) although one has to say that out of the films they made together The Hard Corps is by far the worst & for me is probably the worst JCVD film I have seen . For a start the story is terrible , it's not involving in any way & is a bit of a chore to sit through . The script is standard direct-to-video / DVD stuff with a lightweight story , clichéd character's , limited ambition & lots of boring dialogue . I usually quite like JCVD but The Hard Corps is as bad as the rubbish Steven Seagal has been making lately , there's barely any fights or decent action scenes which is odd since JCVD is a martial arts expert & surely he & his skill's are the films best asset so why ignore it ? The story plods along at a fairly sedate & boring pace & I just wasn't interested in anything that was going on , there's a really predictable plot twist at the end too which just confirms how clichéd & by-the-numbers it really is across it's near two hour duration . The action scenes here are well below par , JCVD has two fights both of which are poor & there's various dull shoot-outs & not a single car chase or explosion in sight . Disappointing . There's an amazing car at the start which Terrell is picked up in , most would need a stepladder just to get into the thing . The violence is tame & there's no nudity either . Apparently rap star DMX was hired to play the villain Terrell but went to prison so couldn't actually make the film , DMX was subsequently quoted in a magazine saying ' I'd rather have gone to prison anyway ' & after watching The Hard Corps I sort of shared that sentiment . With a supposed budget of about $12 , 000 , 000 I don't see where the money went , although set in the US this was shot in Bucharest in Romania & in Vancouver in Canada . The acting is strictly average & no-one seems to have much heart in the film . The Hard Corps is probably the worst JCVD film I have seen & I have seen quite a few , light on action , light on originality & a dull forgettable story makes this one worth skipping .
More ' Creature Feature ' nonsense .	Tyrannosaurus Azteca is set during the sixteenth century where famous Spanish explorer Hernando Cortes ( Ian Ziering ) has landed in Mexico with six of his best men including Lieutenant Rios ( Marco Sanchez ) , they intend to claim the land in the name of the Spanish & maybe steal some gold too if the opportunity arises . Within minutes they have their first sight of local Aztec savages , within minutes after that Cortes & his men are captured & held prisoner . If that wasn't bad enough it turns out that a couple of Tyrannosaurus Rex live there & like to eat the locals , in an effort to win their lives the Spanish offer to help the locals get rid of their monster problem but with various hidden agendas & ulterior motives it's not just the dinosaurs they have to watch out for . . . Directed by Brian Trenchard-Smith ( who , coincidently , made one of my all time favourite exploitations films Turkey Shoot ( 1982 ) which I throughly recommend to one & all ) & also more commonly known under the spoof sounding title of Aztec Rex ( the title was changed by the Sci-Fi Channel when they aired it maybe as the original title Tyrannosaurus Azteca sounds like it might be a foreign film ) this is yet another idiotic & cheap looking Sci-Fi Channel ' Creature Feature ' & that's all you need to know really . Based on & around the real Spanish Conquistador Cortes during his expedition to Mexico the film definitely doesn't strive for historic accuracy although I will admit that the story tries to do something slightly different here but ultimately Tyrannosaurus Azteca is still just a ' Creature Feature ' with a bunch of people running from some poor CGI computer graphic of a monster despite it's period setting . Not too sure what else I can say , despite being set centuries ago the usual clichés are here , the character's are the usual cardboard cutouts , make stupid decisions & the selfish one , the heroic one , the backstabbing one , the faceless victim who exists just to get eaten & the pretty woman are all here & easy to spot . The film is predictable , silly , dull & doesn't really entertain on any level although it does move along at a decent pace & there's one or two half decent moments of gore if that sort of thing interests you . The story isn't that good & has plenty of holes too , this is also the sort of film that you will have completely forgotten about within a few days . Now I have seen & commented on plenty of Sci-Fi Channel ' Creature Features ' & usually the CGI computer effects are terrible & while Tyrannosaurus Azteca doesn't exactly buck the trend I will admit there are a few effects shots which look alright but then they are usually ruined by an absolutely awful effects shot straight afterwards . There's a few decent gore effects here too , there's a cut out heart , a guy's leg is bitten off , there's some blood splatter , a cool shot of a guy left holding his own intestines after he has been attacked by the dinosaur , there's a few dead bodies seen & someone is stabbed with a spear . The T-Rex gets to eat a couple of people too . The production values are really cheap , the Aztec set looks like one of those theme park attractions made from Styrofoam & those Spanish men must have been imprisoned in the worst enclosure in cinematic history with the fence supposedly keeping them in lower than a mans waist , they could have simply stepped out of it & run away it was so low . With a supposed budget of about $900 , 000 I can't see where the money went , shot in O'ahu in Hawaii in apparently fifteen days . The acting isn't great from no-one I have ever heard of . Tyrannosaurus Azteca really isn't any better than any other cheap Sci-Fi Channel ' Creature Feature ' despite an almost interesting & unusual premise , that basic statement should basically be enough for you to decide whether you will enjoy this or not ( at a guess probably not ) .
" You will be a vegetable when I've finished with you . " - They're not wrong either !	Tigress , or Ilsa , Tigress of Siberia as I'm positive it's more commonly know as , starts in ' Serbia 1953 ' where Ilsa ( Dyanne Thorne ) runs a prison camp for Russian dictator Josef Stalin who sends various enemies of the state there for readjustment , if that's the right word . Ilsa runs Gulag 14 with an iron fist , anyone who tries to escape is killed , anyone who refuses to work is killed & anyone who steps out of line is killed . One fateful day the news reaches Ilsa that Stalin has been overthrown , Ilsa orders the destruction of the camp & the execution of all the prisoners but one inmate , political dissident Andre , manages to escape with his life along with Ilsa & a couple of her sadistic guards . Jump to ' Montreal 1977 ' & Andre is in town to accompany a Russian hockey team for some sort of Olympic tournament when a couple of the team want to go to a brothel & have sex with a couple of prostitutes . However this particular brothel is run by Ilsa who spots Andre & thinks his appearance is far from a coincidence , Ilsa has Andre kidnapped for reasons that aren't overly clear or logical but both parties have vengeance on their minds . . . This Canadian production was directed by Jean LaFleur & Tigress was the fourth Ilsa film in a series that began with Ilsa , She Wolf of the SS ( 1975 ) . To be honest I think all of the Ilsa films are pretty rotten & Tigress isn't any different . The script by Marven McGara starts off impressively with Ilsa the Commander of an isolated prison camp , this is probably the best 40 odd minutes that the entire series has to offer as it has a nice exploitative feel with plenty of torture , executions , sex & some unintentionally funny dialogue . Unfortunately for the remainder of Tigress it shifts to Canada & a really boring soft core sex / gangster type film that is absolutely excruciating to sit through . The first & second halves of Tigress are as different as can be , it's almost as if two separate films had been spliced together ( badly ) & the only common threads are Andre & Ilsa . The first half of the film moves along at a nice pace & actually pretty good while the second half is as dull as dishwater & complete total & utter crap . I really don't know who this film would appeal to or who it would please , overall it's a pretty rubbish film taken as a whole . Director LaFleur does a good job for the first half as he keeps things moving along but the second half ruins everything . Don't expect much style or visual flair but it has a nice sleazy atmosphere at times during the first half . I personally think Tigress is the most gory of the Ilsa films , the fights & shootouts feature lots of blood , there are impalings , stabbings , someone has their head smashed to pieces with a hammer , someone gets chopped up in one of those snow clearing machines , people are fed to Tigers & a really graphic scene of a guy having his hand chainsawed off while playing the ultimate game of arm wrestling . There is a fair amount of nudity & some really unsexy sex scenes which are about as much of a turn on as a slap in the face with a wet fish . Technically Tigress is alright , it's competently made throughout although some it is rather bland . The music used is the same as various cues from Dawn of the Dead ( 1978 ) . The acting is poor especially Thorne as Ilsa whom I think is ugly , old , a terrible actress & her large saggy breasts leave me cold & her shower scene had me reaching for the stop button but since I'm such a masochist I stuck with it . Tigress is a poor exploitation film , the first half is as good as the Ilsa series gets but the second half is probably as worse as it gets which takes some doing , it's as simple & straight forward as that . Definitely not recommended as there are far better exploitation films out there .
" I'm only twenty & I've already been shot four times . " Absolutely awful psychological horror .	Deathwatch is set during World War 1 & starts on ' The Western Front 1917 ' as a group of British soldiers prepare to go over the top . During the course of the battle several soldiers are separated & become lost , as they wander the landscape they stumble across a forward German trench that they capture , taking one German soldier ( Roman Horak ) as a prisoner . Captain Bramwell Jennings ( Laurence Fox ) orders his troops to bed themselves in as they are going to defend the valuable trench until reinforcements arrive . The trench is a god-awful place , it's strewn with dead mutilated bodies , it's filthy & it's generally not a nice place to be . That night Private Barry Starinski ( Kris Marshall ) is heard screaming , the men find his body wrapped in barbed wire . Private Bradford ( Hugh O'Conor ) reaches help over the radio but as time passes & the reinforcements don't arrive bouts of squabbling , fighting & arguing break out amongst the men . Paranoia & desperation sets in as they're number begins to dwindle , upon questioning the German soldier he says that they will all die & great evil fills the trench . . . This British , German , Italian & French co-production was written & directed by Michael J . Bassett & in my opinion is , to be blunt , crap . The script is mind-numbingly slow , dull & boring . To say Deathwatch concentrates on character development rather than action is an understatement . If it's one thing I can't stand it's a boring film , I have better things to do than sit in front of a TV screen watching deeply uninteresting character's have petty arguments amongst themselves ( I get enough of that at work ! ) . I sat there waiting for something to happen , anything in fact & unfortunately my patience was never fully rewarded . Deathwatch tries to be clever & keep things a mystery until a lame twist ending but I found the vagueness of it all a real turn-off as it just didn't grip or engage me in the slightest & I quickly lost interest in what was happening . It tries to say things about life in the trenches , paranoia , weak command , racism & other such things which bored me senseless & isn't what I'm looking for in a ( supposed ) horror film . Deathwatch is extremely similar to The Bunker ( 2001 ) made around the same time . Deathwatch was Bassett's directorial debut & in the four years since he hasn't made another film which comes as no great surprise . I have to say the atmosphere was great & both the script & ideas behind it had potential but stuck in such a leaden paced film they are ineffectual to say the least . One more thing that irritated me , I don't know if it was just me but I found it quite hard to distinguish between character's as once they start to get covered in mud they all look exactly the same & Bassett films everything with in a drab , unexciting grayish almost colourless tone . Forget about any meaningful amounts of gore gore , someone gets wrapped in barb wire , a few bullet wounds & a cool bit where a injured soldier who has no feeling in his legs has the bed-sheet removed to discover rats eating them . . . Technically the film is decent enough with nice authentic looking trenches that give the film a realistic & claustrophobic feel throughout . The costumes , special effects , cinematography & general production values are all fine . The acting was pretty good . Deathwatch was a big disappointment for me , I just found the whole thing a bit of a boring confused mess that had zero entertainment value as far as I'm concerned . I wish I'd had an early night now instead .
Another creature feature with terrible effects & not enough ' creature ' .	The Snake King , or Snakeman as it's more commonly known , starts as New York based pharmaceutical company GenTech announces in a press conference that during a recent expedition in the Amazon they discovered a corpse of a man which when analysed showed he died at the age of 300 . Company scientists Dr . Rick Gordon ( Larry Day ) & Dr . Susan Elters ( Jayne Heitmeyer ) are going to lead another expedition into the Amazon to finds his tribe & discover the secret of living for 300 years , what could possibly go wrong ? Well , for a start their helicopter is struck by lightening & crash lands in the middle of the Amazon , then Rick turns out to be a complete dck & to top it off a huge five headed snake wants to eat them all . Can their local guide Matt ( Stephen Baldwin ) lead them to safety & is finding the secret to eternal life really worth being eaten by a huge five headed snake for ? This made-for-TV Canadian American co-production was written & directed by Allan A . Goldstein & is yet another Nu Image produced creature feature flick complete with all the clichés that these films seem determined to include . The script takes itself very seriously & is basically pretty much the same sort of thing as Anacondas : The Hunt for the Blood Orchid ( 2004 ) with it's plot about a youth potion in the Amazon guarded by a snake , in this case a ridiculous looking one of the giant five headed variety . Lets go through the clichés which Nu Image insist on having in their creature features , good guys including a beautiful female scientist & a rugged hero type who end up falling in love , the antagonistic bad guys who want something the creature is protecting / in the way of , the disposable character's who don't say anything & have no opinions on anything because they are there to get eaten , the supposedly dramatic moralistic ending which will leave most viewers wiping away the tears of either laughter or boredom , the single isolated location to keep production costs down & an abundance of awful CGI computer effects . Yep , they're all here present & correct . Unfortunately Snake King is even more lame than a lot of other Nu Image ' classics ' like Cyborg Cop ( 1993 ) , Shark Attack ( 1999 ) , their best film to date Spiders ( 2000 ) , Crocodile ( 2000 ) , Octopus ( 2000 ) , Mansquito ( 2005 ) & a plethora of sequels & other killer Shark flicks , I mean most of the above are pretty bad films but a lot of them at least had fun elements , unintentionally hilarious moments & a sense no one was taking things too seriously but The Snake Kingis just a dull , boring , unoriginal mess of a film that isn't even good for any laughs & doesn't have any good looking babes in it either . At least the five headed snake survives at the end & gets to eat lots of humans but it's still a stinker . Director Goldstein doesn't do anything special here , the pace is slack , the plot is dumb , the editing is awful & the special effects are terrible . The CGI computer effects look awful , unless you have literally million's to spend on them GCI always ends up looking worse than your average Saturady morning cartoon with badly animated monsters that look stupid . The wonderful Ray Harryausen stop-motion animated seven headed Hydra from Jason and the Argonauts ( 1963 ) looks 100 times better & more realistic than the five headed snake here . There's a few gory bit here , there's some severed arms , people are bitten in half & there's a brief scene when someone has their stomach sliced open & their guts spill out . With a supposed budget of about $1 , 000 , 000 the filmmakers were obviously working on a tight budget & it's a surprise they actually managed to shoot the thing on location in Brazil . Awful looking five headed snakes & helicopter crashes apart it's reasonably well made but it's bland & forgettable without an ounce of style . The acting here is bad & Stephen Baldwin is the token ' celebrity ' actor who obviously needed rent money & a free holiday in South America . The Snake King is a pretty awful creature feature which offers nothing new over the countless killer Shark , Octopus , Insect , Lizard & Arachnid type films which seem to be everywhere & it doesn't even any genuine unintentional laughs either . Definitely not recommended , I'm not sure why they keep making these sorts of films other than there are people out there who like them & to satisfy demand Nu Image's next giant killer snake flick seems to be called MegaSnake ( 2007 ) & premiers in July apparently . . .
More low budget horror rubbish .	The Black Magic starts as soon to be married Andrew ( Daniel Lennox ) & his two best friends Craig ( Brian Bianchni ) & David ( Guy Bracca ) are enjoying a holiday in Bangkok in Thailand , however the trip turns to tragedy & the three friends arrive back back home in the States looking to get on with their respective lives . Unfortunately all three begin to suffer various problems , from being fired to getting stabbed to having terrifying nightmares as an evil force out for revenge starts to ruin their lives & ultimately tries to take them . . . This American , Thai & Indonesian co-production was co-written & directed by Marc-Ivan O'Gorman & one has to say it's unusual to find a horror flick on the IMDb that doesn't have at least ten comments , in fact it's clear that horror is easily the most commented upon genre on the IMDb & I would guess that The Blck Magic is therefore a pretty obscure film & I have have to say that it pretty much deserves to be obscure & hopefully for the general public it will stay that way . The script by O'Gorman & producer Asun Mawardi takes itself very seriously & is probably best described as a supernatural horror thriller in the style of recent Japanese horror like Ringu ( 1998 ) & Ju-On : The Grudge ( 2003 ) with ghostly Asian women & wronged spirits out for some sort of revenge . Unfortunately The Black magic feels very much like an American attempt at recreating the success of these Japanese horror films & as such sticks a load of annoying American teens as the stars , sets some of it in Bangkok while the rest in America & pretty much uses all the clichés you know & are throughly bored of . From possession to righting a wrong before a ghost can rest in peace it's all here just without any of the scares or entertainment you would hope for . It's really boring & very slow , it's extremely predictable & there isn't even an explanation as to why Sita comes back from the dead . Director O'Gorman does alright & at least the film looks competent throughout although there's zero scares , there's no style & no atmosphere . The shots of Bangkok look like they came from a holiday program or travelogue & are surprisingly dull & flat as is the whole film really . According to the MPAA section on the IMDb homepage for The Black Magic this was rated ' R ' for strong violence , language , some sexuality & drug use , well it's go the language & drug use but there's no nudity & as for strong violence I didn't see any . A chicken has it's head cut off in a sacrifice , someone is stabbed in the stomach & someone is repeatedly stabbed in the throat at the end otherwise there's nothing here to get excited about . There's a touch of cheap looking CGI computer effects work as well . Technically the film is reasonably well made & better than a lot of low budget horror crap , unfortunately the story & film still suck though . The acting is OK , nothing brilliant but nothing too bad . The Black Magic is a poor attempt at a Japanese styled supernatural horror thriller which is a genre I don't like anyway so this was never likely to impress me , give this a miss & watch the American remake of The Ring ( 2002 ) instead as it's much , much better .
Boring nonsense that fails to live up to it's lurid title ( s ) .	Terror ! Il Castello delle donne Maledette , or Frankenstein's Castle of Freaks , Frankenstein's Castle , Monsters of Frankenstein or The House of Freaks as it's also known under amongst other deceptively lurid titles , starts as Maria Frankenstien ( Simonetta Vitelli ) , her fiancé Eric ( Eric Mann ) & her friend Krista ( Christiane Rucker ) arrive at her childhood home the Frankenstein Castle . There they are greeted by Maria's father Count Frankenstein ( Rossano Brazzi ) who has been conducting experiments on local Neanderthal cavemen , throw in some grave robbing , some mild nudity , a hunchback & a dwarf & you have a mess of a film with virtually no plot . . . This Italian production was directed by Robert Oliver & is total crap . The script by Mario Francini , William Rose , Mark Smith & Roberto Spano ( it took four people to write a film this bad ? ) is a mess , there's no recognisable coherent storyline in it & it just seems a loosely connected series of incidents & character's which makes for a very tedious 90 odd minutes . The Frankenstein character is present in this film in name only as he doesn't stitch any body parts together , he doesn't play about with any brains or ' create ' a creature . I have no idea what the thinking behind the Neanderthal cavemen are all about , it's just plain odd & throw in stupid annoying dwarf into the mix & one has to wonder what the makers of this nonsense were thinking . Was this meant to be a comedy ? If it was it isn't funny apart from the hilarious English dubbed dialogue . Is it meant to be scary ? Well , it's not scary at all & has virtually no horror elements that I see . Other than either horror or comedy I can't see what else the makers were trying to do with this film & since it fails miserably at both I wasn't impressed . Terror ! Il Castello delle donne Maledette is a mess of underdeveloped ideas that go nowhere & awful character's . Despite it's many lurid & exploitative English titles this is very tame stuff , there's some brief nudity but no blood or gore to speak of . The most exploitative it gets is when it is implied a dwarf rapes a woman , it is not shown on screen though so don't get too excited . Also , what happened to the body Frankenstein stole from the graveyard ? It gets mentioned quite a few times but it's never revealed why Frankenstein stole it or what he did with it . Another problem with this film is that it is just so boring , virtually nothing happens & the photography is so bland & dull it's just a chore to sit through . Technically the film is basic with shaky & jerky camera pans & zooms , rubbish special effects & lowly production values where an entire village is represented by about seven people . Some of the interior castle scenes look quite good & are quite atmospheric but that's down to where it was shot rather than any great effort on the filmmakers part . It's hard to tell about the acting since all the cast are dubbed into English but the English voice actors are terrible & the dialogue just sounds ridiculous & fragmented . Terror ! Il Castello delle donne Maledette is awful apart from some unintentionally funny moments , a decent castle setting & a few naked bodies , overall I thought it was tedious & pointless in the extreme .
" Sir , there is an air of enquiry about you that immediately offends my deepest nature . " Poor murder mystery whodunit .	Scared to Death starts in the ' Central City Morgue ' where a pathologist ( Stanley Andrews ) is about to begin his gruesome work on a dead woman named Laure Van Ee ( Molly Lamont ) , as the corpse of Laura lies there it begins to tell the tale of how she ended up dead . . . Cut to Dr . Josef Van Ee ( George Zucco ) & his son Ward ( Roland Varlo ) , they discuss Laura & how she won't give Ward a divorce & how she is generally a moody paranoid btch . Laura thinks that someone is trying to kill her & she suspects everyone , from Lilly Beth ( Gladys Blake ) the maid to the private patrol officer Bill ' Bull ' Raymond ( Nat Pendleton ) to a creepy stranger Professor Leonide ( Bela Lugosi ) to her husband Ward & Dr . Josef . No one is safe from her accusations & moods , women eh ! ? However it seems Laura may have a point , she receives a decapitated dummies head , the feeling that she is being spied upon & mysterious letters that appear to unsettle her . Then a tipped off reporter named Terry Grant ( Dougles Fowley ) & his bird Jane Cornell ( Joyce Compton ) turn up , invite themselves in & start sniffing around for a story . Before the night is over they will get one . . . Directed by Christy Cabanne this is a pretty poor film whichever way you look at it I'm afraid . The script by Walter Abbott plays much more like a murder mystery than a horror film that the title may suggest . The murder plot is confused , it tries to cram as many stupid red-herrings as it can . Every character in Scared to Death acts so suspiciously it becomes both irritating & distracting , I mean do these people want to be suspected of murder even though it hasn't even happened yet ? ! I quite liked the idea of a corpse narrating it's own murder but for some bizarre reason the film likes to concentrate on the comedy relief supplied by the dim-witted Raymond . The ending might have been effective if not preceded by such a lame , confused & boring hour of badly written comedy , mystery & character's who don't need to be there , I mean what was the purpose of the dwarf Indigo ( Angelo Rossitto ) as to my eyes he contributed NOTHING to the film ? The story doesn't grip like any good murder mystery should & just ends up becoming tedious . Director Cabanne does nothing to add any suspense , tension , scares or excitement & instead piles on the lame comedy . Scared to Death might have been decent it if were set in a spooky old mansion but Cabanne decided on an bland ordinary looking house which hardly generates any atmosphere , in fact it doesn't generate any . There is only one murder if you can call it that , refer to the title to understand what I mean . Scared to Death was another poverty row effort for Lugosi who comes & goes but doesn't do much . This was one of only two colour films he appeared in , the other being Viennese Nights ( 1930 ) . The acting isn't great but it's better than some of these early horrors . Scared to Death is a poor murder mystery , has no horror elements in it & is stuffed with annoying comedy that is anything but funny . Do yourself a favour & give this one a miss , there are much better films out there . One more thing , the IMDb cast listing on the Scared to Death main page gives away the identity of the killer if you look down it . A case of the IMDb breaking their own rules ?
" Peace can only be achieved by war . " Rubbishy Japanese crap .	Batoru Rowaiaru II : Chinkonka , or Battle Royale II to most English speaking audiences , starts three years after Shuya Nanahara ( Tatsuya Fujiwara ) survived the original Battle Royale & escaped , he is now an international terrorist & leader of the anti-BR group Wild Seven who have declared war on all adults & they like to blow skyscrapers up too . The BR act has now been revised & the 42 students from class 3-B of Shikanotoride School find themselves the newest contestants , they are told by their ' teacher ' Riki Takeuchi ( Riki Takeuchi ( ! ) ) that they have to land on Nanahara's island hideaway & kill him to survive , it's as simple as that . Unfortunately Nanahara's terrorist group shoot on sight , they have limited ammo & each of the students have collars placed around their necks which will explode under certain circumstances , including if they try to escape obviously . As the students drop like flies it's kill or be killed . . . This Japanese production was originally to be directed by Kinji Fukasaku but he died during filming so his son & co-writer Kenta Fukasaku completed the film & I personally thought Batoru Rowaiaru II : Chinkonka was absolutely crap , it's as simple & straight forward as that . Before I carry on I should mention that like so many films these days there are two different edits going around , firstly there is the original theatrical cut & after that was panned it was re-edited with new special effects & over twenty minutes of extra footage spliced back in , the version I saw was the original theatrical cut so that's what my comment is based upon . This being a direct sequel to the rather good Batoru Rowaiaru ( 2000 ) I was pleased at how it started out for the first hour or so , like any good sequel Batoru Rowaiaru : Chinkonka takes the original ideas , themes & pretty much everything that made the original so good & expands upon them , multiplying the good bits & upping the scale of things . However while the script by Fukasaku & Norio Kida starts out promisingly after about an hour it then descends into quite simply the worst , most boring , dull , tedious , pointless , uninteresting & slow moving war film I've ever seen , the whole Battle Royale premise disappears & we're left with an hour & a half of predictable war film clichés of the worst kind & all the action scenes from this point on are lame , there simply isn't enough story here to pad out over two hours . The theatrical cut runs for 134 minutes which felt like an eternity , the director's cut runs for a mind numbing 155 minutes , I can't imagine how boring this version is . . . Director ( s ) Fukasaku lay on the political & moral messages thick & fast , after the first hour this thing hints at & refers to all sorts of incidents that have happened recently , from terrorists blowing up skyscrapers to the war in Iraq to the way it implies the United States drop bombs on anyone that annoy them & to emphasise it the reading out of all the countries that have been bombed by them not once but twice just so we don't forget it to fighting against oppressive regime's . To be honest I watch films to get away from reality & to be entertained not to look at self opinionated propaganda . The one thing that puzzled me while watching this was why didn't the Japanese government just bomb Nanahara's island ? It would have saved everyone a lot of time . The action scenes are dull , forgettable & bland although the beach landing sequence looks like something out of Saving Private Ryan ( 1998 ) & as such is quite effective , mostly though they are filmed with shaky hand held cameras with quick editing rather than the cool slow motion action type stuff seen in The Matrix ( 1999 ) . The gore levels are low , there are a few exploding collars including one really cool one at the start & some gunshot wounds but nothing that graphic . With a supposed budget of about $9 , 000 , 000 Batoru Rpwaiaru : Chinkonka is well made although there's not much too it to be honest . The acting & dialogue is all in Japanese so it's difficult to comment on it , everyone seems to either scream or cry in the right places though . I thought Takeuchi was terrible & just wait until the end when you see him in dressed in rugby gear during a fierce gunfight , I also thought he looked like a psycho Japanese Elvis impersonator at times . Batoru Rowaiaru : Chinkonka overall is an awful film that bored me to tears , the first hour or so is good as it is a terrific rehash of everything that made the original so good but afterwards , well I just should have stopped it there really & not wasted the following hour & ten minutes of my life that this film took from me . Not recommended , by me anyway .
Dull as dishwater haunted house drama .	The Haunting of Seacliff Inn is set on the picturesque Californian coast & starts with Susan ( Ally Sheedy ) & Mark Enright ( William R . Moses ) looking to buy some property with the idea of converting it into a seaside inn when Susan spots a beautiful old house sitting on a cliff overlooking a beach . The house is owned by Lorraine Adler ( Maxine Stuart ) who says that she doesn't want to sell but Susan has set her heart on it & decides to go back the following day to try & change her mind . Susan discovers Lorraines body & according to Sheriff Tomizack ( Shannon Cochran ) she accidentally slipped & hit her head resulting in her death . Susan & Mark buy the house of Lorraines daughter Caroline ( Jay W . MacIntosh ) & begin the building work required to turn the house into an inn ready for paying customers . However strange things start to happen like an electrical incident in which a workman is injured , a menacing dog keeps turning up , the gas & water are mysteriously left on & that old haunted house standby doors opening on they're own , spooky stuff eh ? Susan senses something is happening , as she begins to research the house's history she finds it has a somewhat dark past that needs to be laid to rest once & for all . . . Co-written & directed by Walter Klenhard I thought The Haunting of Seacliff Inn was a reasonable ghost story but was just a bit too dull for my tastes . The script by Klenhard & Tom Walla is far too pedestrian for my liking , nothing significant happens for long stretches , in fact when I think about it nothing particularly significant happens during the films entire 90 plus minute duration . It's all rather predictable , plodding & uninspiring stuff throughout . There's no real threat to anyone , nothing that dangerous or sinister happens , no-one is killed apart from Lorraine & as a whole it's more of a family ghost film . The character's are serviceable but not that likable , the break down of Mark & Susan's marriage is both predictable & awkwardly handled . The character of Sara ( Lucinda Weist ) the ghost is almost surplus to requirements & does nothing terribly important . The house's dark past is far from exciting & the film ends rather limply . On a positive note it tells a reasonable story competently enough if you like slow burning films such as this . Director Klenhard films the nice Californian coast line with aplomb & the house itself makes for a nice location but otherwise the film is bland , flat & utterly forgettable so it comes as no surprise that The Haunting of Seacliff Inn was made-for-TV . Forget about any scary ghosts , any violence or anything you might be looking for in a horror film because this is one extremely tame film . Technically the film is fine but wholly unadventurous , there's nothing particularly wrong with it but nothing particularly good about it either . Average stuff from start to finish . The acting was OK but no-ones going to win any awards for it . The Haunting of Seacliff Inn isn't the type of film that really appeals to me as I found it far too slow & contained far too much melodramatics & not enough horror or scares . I'm sure there are people out there who may get something out of this film but it's not for me I'm afraid so as a consequence I can't in good heart recommend it .
I didn't like it at all & it felt like it went on forever .	Giù la Testa is set in Mexico where Irish IRA explosives expert John Mallory ( James Coburn ) is on the run from one revolution & fight but soon finds himself in the thick of another when he teams up with Mexican bandit Juan Miranda ( Rod Steiger ) & his gang , Juan forces John to help him & his gang rob the gold from a bank in the city of Mesa Verde using explosives but soon both are considered hero's for their antics . Drawn into the revolution Juan & John become important figures & commit themselves to the cause against oppression & their capitalist leaders . . . More commonly known amongst English speaking audiences under titles such as A Fistful of Dynamite & Duck , You Sucker ( worst title for a film ever ) this Italian production was co-written & directed by Sergio Leone & despite the whole world & it's brother seemingly liking it I personally hated Giù la Testa & it's as simple & straight forward as that . When originally released in the US Giù la Testa was heavily edited to a little over two hours & I thought it was that shorter version I was going to watch last night but due to a mistake the version I saw was the life sapping two & a half hour plus cut which bored me to tears , hell I was sat there watching this & for the last hour all I could think to myself was how much more of this crap do I have to sit through . I know Giù la Testa has a good reputation but I really saw nothing here to enjoy or recommend , I thought the tone was very uneven , I thought the plot was weak & could be more accurately described as a collection of loosely connected incidents , I thought the themes about revolution , war , redemption , running , honour , family & betrayal had little dramatic impact & it bored me stupid . I can't stress enough how bored I was watching Giù la Testa & the worst sin a film can commit in my eyes is to be boring . The film has a few sporadic moments of action , there's a few explosions , some shoot-outs & a crashing train but they are few & far between . Despite what anyone says the violence is tame , there's no blood or gore for instance . I will give Giù la Testa some credit for it's nice production design & cinematography , the film certainly looks nice if nothing else but that's not really enough . I mean if something bores you to tears it doesn't really matter how good it looks , does it ? I don't quite understand where all the love for Giù la Testa comes from , I honestly didn't enjoy it at all & after a fairly striking opening thirty odd minutes I found myself losing all interest in it & becoming increasingly bored . It's never a good sign when you sit there & just keep saying to yourself that you wish something would just finish ! Although set entirely in Mexico Giù la Testa was filmed almost entirely in Spain apart from some studio work in Italy . As I have said the film is visually nice with some nice cinematography but it's just so dull & boring . Rod Steiger & James Coburn make for decent leads . Giù la Testa is a film with a good reputation that I hoped I would enjoy but at over two & a half hours it bored me half to death , nope I am sorry but I don't have any love for Giù la Testa at all . I am sure there is an audience out there for a film such as Giù la Testa but it's not for me .
Awful Italian Zomie film .	After Death is set on some remote Caribbean island where a team of scientists have decided to carry out experiments on curing all sorts of diseases using the local natives knowledge of Voodoo , unfortunately things go wrong & after accidentally killing the main Voodoo priests ( James Sampson ) child he open the gates of hell in order for the living dead to take revenge on the scientists . Jump forward twenty years & two group of people arrive on the island , some soldiers for hire & their girls & three backpackers who are there investigating the legends that surround the island . It's not long before both sets of travellers run into the living dead who are hungry for human flesh . . . This Italian production was directed by Claudio Fragasso under the pseudonym of Clyde Anderson & one has to say it's pretty awful . Also known as Zombie Flesh Eaters 3 in the UK to cash in on the Lucio Fulci flick Zombi 2 ( 1979 ) which was called Zombie Flesh Eaters over here & After Death is more commonly known under the title Zombi 4 : After Death pretty much everywhere else to cash in on Fulci's zombie flick which was called Zombi 2 everywhere else . But what about Zombi 3 ( 1988 ) I hear you all say ? Well Zombi 3 was another Italian zombie flick credited to Fulci but doesn't have any connection to his Zombi 2 or this . Phew , got that ? Good . Anyway , there's a general rule of thumb with regard to the Italian zombie film that the later it was made the worse it is & After Death proves that assumption rather nicely . Without wishing to get too technical After Death is awful in every regard . The script by Rossella Drudi makes no sense & feels more like a random collection of scenes than a proper coherent story . For instance at the start when the little girls mum tells her to run why does she stay behind to fight the zombie who was happily eating her husband & ignoring both of them ? Woudn't her young daughter stood more of a chance with her ? That also leads to the question who did a six year old girl manage to escape an isolated island in the middle of the sea ? The very fact that the script then suggests she forgot what happened , found herself back on the island twenty years later by a coincidence complete with the amulet her mother gave her & then suddenly remembers everything ! The character's are awful , the whole film is inconsistent with a scene of someone getting attacked by a zombie before they read from the Book of the Dead ( very Evil Dead ( 1981 ) . . . ) which what supposedly brings the dead back to life , some of the zombies can run , jump & know karate while others seem only able to shuffle along while one even manages to speak ! After Death is rubbish , when a film is so poor & random it's impossible to care about anything or anyone . Director Fragasso , sorry I mean Anderson doesn't do much to liven things up & After Death feels somewhat fragmented in the sense that it feels like several different zombie films edited together . There's lots of ugly wide shots , pans & zooms which gives it a cheap look & feel . There isn't much gore either , someone face is ripped off , a zombie puts it's hand through someone back & it exits through their chest , there's some bullet wounds , a few zombie bites & some fake blood but not much else . I mean there's nothing here to rival the splinter in the eye scene in Zombi 2 for instance & there isn't even any intestine eating . The whole thing is so poorly made & staged that it's impossible to take seriously & therefore it's not scary in the slightest . Technically After Death is poor , shot on location in the Philippines it looks cheap & ugly throughout with poor special effects & some of the worst music ever . The main theme is awful & that living dead pop song left my ears aching . The acting is poor as well as is the dubbing . Jeff Stryker is better know as a gay hardcore sex film actor & the Don Wilson in the cast is definitely not Don ' The Dragon ' Wilson ( has been ) action star ! After Death has nothing to do with any Fulci zombie flick & is retitled Zombi 4 purely to cash in on the success of the Fulci films , do yourself a favour & avoid this one as it's rubbish . This isn't even any good for laughs or over the top gore .
Boring nonsense .	Dead Birds starts in the small American town of Fairhope Alabama during the year 1863 where a gang hold up the local bank , they kill a few people & steal lots of gold . As they make their escape the plan is to stay at an old farm house before moving onto Mexico , simple yet effective I'm sure you'll agree . However not everything goes according to plan & it turns out that the guy who owned the farm house a few years back was some sort of Satan worshipper , bummer eh ? It's not long before everyone starts seeing ghosts & such things . . . Directed by Alex Turner I have to say I was very unimpressed with Dead Birds so it comes as a shock that it seems to have so many positive comments written about it . The script which feels like a lame cross between Ravenous ( 1999 ) & From Dusk Till dawn ( 1996 ) by co-producer Simon Barrett takes itself very seriously & is slow , very slow & I must admit that I lose interest very quickly in slow , boring , dull & predictable films such as Dead Birds . You can easily guess what's going to happen , you know the scenario where a group of people become stuck in an isolated located through certain circumstances , they all begin to wander off on their own & get killed one-by-one . To be honest Dead Birds isn't even a decent haunted house supernatural horror , there are too many vague elements to it , the climax where everything is supposedly revealed is weak & less than shocking & the twist end made no sense to me at all . I was not impressed with any aspect of Dead Birds including that awful title which has absolutely nothing to do with the film itself as far as I could tell . Director Turner does an OK job but there's nothing spectacular on show here , the period setting is reasonably well realised but it all felt a bit sparse & low budget , just putting a candle in a room doesn't mean it looks like it belongs in the 17th century does it ? Overall the film was very unsatisfying to me , the story could have been tighter & better fleshed out & it's extremely slow . There's an OK atmosphere but I'd say it was low on scares & also lacking in decent gore . There's a bit of blood including a blown off head at the start during the robbery but afterwards it's pretty dry apart from a decapitation , some chopped up horses & something bursting out a woman's stomach . Obviously shot on a low budget Dead Birds is well made but it's hardly going to knock any houses down . The acting was alright , to be honest I can't remember anyone from it or their performances & I only saw it a few hours ago . Dead Birds is a boring , predictable & not very good low budget horror film . Amazingly it seems to have fans out there so I guess it's doing something right although to be honest I sure as hell couldn't see it . Not recommended , by me anyway .
" Your more useful to me as a btch . " Terrible Van Damme flick .	In Hell is set in Russia where American contractor Kyle ( Jean-Claude Van Damme ) arrives home one night to discover his wife Grey ( Marnie Alton ) dead & some Russian scumbag with a knife , Kyle gives chase but loses him . When the police finally catch up with the guy he pays the judge off & walks away scott free , Kyle takes exception to this & using a cop's handgun dishes out his own justice . Before Kyle can say ' I did it for my wife ' he's been sentenced to life in a prison called Kravovia , it's a hell hole where they give you slop to eat , where the guards regularly beat you , your fellow inmates are big hairy ugly Russian mother fers & it's the sort of establishment where you definitely don't bend over in the shower . Kyle quickly discovers that the guards put on fights between two inmates to amuse the sadistic warden so he pours a frying pan of chip fat over his hair , grows a stupid gay looking goatee beard & decides to join in . . . Directed by Ringo Lam I am genuinely surprised at how many positive comments In Hell has on the IMDb , although while I'm surprised I don't really care as I thought it was crap . The script by Eric Jmaes Virgets , Jorge Alvarez , Steve Latshaw & Les Weldon tries to be some serious prison drama as in Midnight Express ( 1978 ) & The Shawshank Redemption ( 1994 ) but falls totally flat on it's face , by the time the ghost of JCVD's dead wife show's up all credibility had gone out of the window & the scenes where he takes inspiration from a flying magical moth are hilariously bad & out of place . Then there's the action , or rather the disappointing lack of it . JCVD doesn't get into a fight until over an hour into the thing & even then it's uninspiring stuff before he suddenly sees the error of his ways & that fighting is ' wrong ' before he gives an embarrassing emotional speech to the rest of his fellow inmates at the end which is accompanied by violins on the soundtrack ! I also thought In Hell had an unhealthy preoccupation with gay sex & was very homophobic , I mean there's plenty of butt raping action going on as inmates rape one another just about every night & there's even a flashback sequence which show's why JCVD's cell mate is in prison which revolves around him setting someone on fire who was going to butt rape him . I mean every gay bloke in In Hell is portrayed as some big , brutish , rapist freak of nature ! Director Lam is sandbagging it here , the entire first hour is nothing more than constant tedious scenes of JCVD having a hard time , getting picked on by the guards & inmates , given slop to eat , left in solitary confinement & just about every other prison film cliché that establishes that it's not a very nice place to be . JCVD starts off OK in this but then he grows his hair long & a beard as he resembles a homeless wino before he slicks it all back & has this awful looking little goatee beard on his chin . The action scenes are poor , there's no slow motion roundhouse kicks here , it's pretty dull pub brawl type fights . The violence is also tame & there's never any reason given for why that guy kills JCVD's wife at the start . With a supposed budget of about $17 , 000 , 000 this had a fair amount of money spent on it & I have to say apart from the sets & locations I can't really see where the money went . It was shot in Bulgaria & it's well made for what it is but there are loads of well made films out there that actually have a decent story too . The acting isn't great & I can't believe anyone actually says JCVD is good in this . In Hell is a film that tries to be something it's not , it tries to be a prison drama but the character's & situations are so bad it all ends up coming across like a comedy as the action scenes feel like an afterthought . Personally I thought it was pants .
' Jaws of Steel ! ' The best giant killer crocodile film to come out of Thailand , ever .	Excellent , I've always wanted to be the first to review a film on the IMDb ! A fierce hurricane devastates an island somewhere just off the coast of Thailand . It destroys model houses and trees as if they weren't there . Thunder , lightening , lashing winds and torrential rainfall cause tidal waves and mudslides that wipe's an entire village community out . During this footage we get several shots of a group of crocodiles caught up in the hurricane . After witnessing this destruction we head into the opening credits . They alternate between shots of two topless women being eaten by a giant crocodile , two on screen credits for the producers and director ( this film has no other credits besides these even at the end ) , and a still of what looks like a watercolour painting where all the colour's have run and mixed into each other , bizarre . We are introduced to a Dr . Anthony Akom ( Nat Puvanni ) , Tony to his mates , his wife Angela plus their two daughters Linda and Ann , plus Linda's fiancé Dr . John Strom who are all having dinner together . Linda comments on a newspaper headline and asks whether the rumour's are true that the hurricane was caused by an atomic explosion . They all decide to take a short holiday and before we know it they've travelled to a luxury beach-side hotel . While swimming in the sea Dr . Akom's daughters Ann and Linda , plus his wife Angela are all eaten by a giant crocodile . To have one member of your family eaten by a giant crocodile would be considered unfortunate but have have all three would probably hurt on an emotional level . Dr . Akom resigns his position and together with John he sets out to destroy the giant crocodile . First Akom talks to an expert on reptiles a Professor Lowes who somewhat jumps to conclusions and suggests that it could be possible for a crocodile to survive in the sea and says that atomic radiation might have created a giant mutant . The crocodile attacks and destroys a few riverside villages and eats a few people . Akom enlists the help of a local fisherman named Tanaka ( Kirk Warren ) who says they can use his boat , and talks about legends where sea monsters rise from the sea and thus he feels it's his duty to help . Meanwhile the Thai police decide to try and kill the crocodile themselves , by setting an over-sized bear-trap at the bottom of a river and baiting it with a joint of meat ! I'm not joking either . In another poorly edited sequence the plan fails miserably . The police admit defeat , and it's up to our hero's Akom and John to save the day ! Akom has worked out that the crocodile is heading to the open sea , hang on a minute wasn't it in the sea when it ate his family ? They lie in wait where the river joins the sea for the giant crocodile ready to fight it to the death ! Oh , and a reporter named Peter goes along as well , for some reason . Directed by Sampote Sands this is one pretty bad film . It tries , but rarely succeeds . Just think Jaws ( 1975 ) set in Thailand with a giant crocodile and a lot less money , in fact the ending is practically the same as Jaws and I'm surprised Spielberg hasn't sued ! The special effects are poor , miniature sets and a real crocodile look fake as does the full size crocodile and the various stiff looking puppet shots . When the crocodile is seen at night it has light's in it's eye's which almost look like headlights on a car ! There's a bit of blood here and there and a cool shot where a man with no legs after the crocodile had bitten them off and eaten them tries to swim away . There is also a totally unnecessary scene where a real crocodile is stabbed in the head and killed for no apparent reason , in graphic close-up . The film is obviously dubbed , badly too . And it wouldn't surprise me if the music has been redone for this English version as it seems so out of place and doesn't react to the on screen action at all , and the main theme appears to be the same piano note being played over and over and it becomes highly irritating . The editing on this film is terrible , we get random shots of things just appearing out of nowhere and in context having absolutely no relevance to anything else that is happening on screen at that particular time , like the crocodile being killed for instance . Quite often the entire frame is devoid of any action , almost as if the camera wasn't pointed in the right direction , during one scene which last for about a minute , which is why it stands out , we get a shot of a hut and someones hand poking out of the corner of the screen and I have no idea what he was meant to be doing because during the whole shot we just see one of his hands and nothing else ! Bizarre . The film moves along at a fair pace and is sort of entertaining on a ' bad ' level . Towards the end the sloppiness starts to wear thin and it becomes a bit of an endurance test , to sum up I'll end by saying this is the best giant killer crocodile film from Thailand , but then again please bear in mind that it's the only one . Impossible to recommend to anyone , but I just about managed to watch it all the way through .
Really bad sci-fi action flick .	Solo starts as a team of US soldiers go into Soth America to blow up a rebel airstrip , joining them is a robot named Solo ( Mario Van Peebles ) who can use any weapon ever made , is fifteen times stronger & ten times faster than any human being . Something goes wrong though & Solo refuses to kill innocent civilians which Colonel Frank Madden ( William Sadler ) isn't happy about , back at base & General Haynes ( Barry Corbin ) orders Solo to be shut down & reprogrammed . One of Solo's main directives is self preservation so decides to escape back into the South American jungles where Colonel Madden & his men are sent in to recapture it . . . This Mexican American co-production was directed by Norberto Barba & one has to say Solo is awful . The script by David Corley was based on the novel ' Weapon ' by Robert Mason & is one cliché after another , robots were popular at the time Solo was made in Hollywood & at the box-office so Solo rip-offs the likes of Robocop ( 1987 ) , Universal Soldier ( 1992 ) & the two Terminator flicks as well as having the same setting & basic story as Predator ( 1987 ) . This is the usual rubbish about an emotionless robot who grows a sense of humanity while being around people , at first he doesn't know what a joke is or why one person would care for another but by the end he develops emotions & starts to befriend people , sounds like Terminator 2 : Judgment Day ( 1991 ) to me . The character's are poor & Colonel Madden in particular is given absolutely no motivation for hating Solo at all & why he would kill other US soldiers & disobey orders to destroy it . You know I saw this on cable telly last night for free ( thank god I didn't spend any money on it ) & I looked it up in the TV guide & do you know what it said ? My TV guide described Solo as a ' dire sci-fi action starring Mario Van Peebels ' which when I think about it is a perfect description of Solo . In less than ten words my TV guide has hit the nail on the head , I mean it's a sci-fi action film , it certainly stars Mario Van Peebles & it's definitely dire . Enough said really . Director Barba doesn't do anything particularly special here & the action scenes lack any real excitement & the sci-fi elements are virtually none existent apart from the fact Solo is a robot . So the military lose Solo & Colonel Madden is sent in to recapture it right ? I'm not being funny but wouldn't the military have put a ' self destruct ' mechanism inside Solo in case something like that happened ? Surely at the very least Solo would have had a tracking device inside it so the military would at least know where it was at any given time ? I'm not being funny but these people can come up with a walking talking robotic soldier but they are not clever enough to realise that a tracking or self destruct device might be useful if anything went wrong ? The violence is mild , there are a few OK fight scenes but this is pretty weak stuff really . Technically the film looks alright & is competently made , it was actually shot in Mexico . The makers of the Dolph Lundgren action flick Agent Red ( 2000 ) edited footage from Solo into that film . The acting is poor , Van Peebles was the perfect choice to play an emotionless robot . . . William Sadler deserves better than this , it was only a few years prior he was staring in the fantastic Die Hard 2 : Die Harder ( 1990 ) . Solo is a really bad sci-fi action flick which is basically a huge rip-off of big budget Hollywood sci-fi action films like Robocop , Universal Soldier & the Terminator films . Not recommend & I'm going to start & pay more attention to my TV guide when it comes to choosing films to watch . . .
Instantly forgettable & disappointingly gore-less teen slasher .	The Caretaker starts on Halloween as several college friends gets ready to go to an organized dance . Well that's what Sonya ( Jennifer Freeman ) , Chole ( Victoria Vande Vegte ) & the delicious Ella ( Kira Verrastro ) think but pranksters Snail ( James Immekus ) , Topher ( Andrew St . John ) & Ricky ( Diego J . Torres ) have other ideas & decide to hire out a limo to take them all to a seemingly long abandoned house in the middle of a Grapefruit orchard , as you would . They have set up some fake scares to frighten the girls as they tell stories about insane killers but things go horribly wrong when a real insane killer show's up & starts , well , killing them . Directed by Bryce Olsen this is pretty much a fairly straight forward teen slasher with the now obligatory Scream ( 1996 ) styled twist ending which is laughably bad here & makes little sense ( why , if the killer was trying to protect his daughter at a party , did they kill that random guy at the start ? ) . I suppose the main problems I had with The Caretaker was that it takes ages to get going , seriously this is one really slow moving film . The character's are ridiculously good looking young cardboard cutout teens that usually populate these types of slasher films & the film is slow . All of the kills are off-screen which is an absolute no-no for a teen slasher , what's the point of a teen slasher is there's no pay-off in seeing these teens bumped off in a variety of gory ways ? It's slow too . The film takes itself too seriously & there are a couple of oddball character's in the limo driver & Miss Perry who seem like they belong in a different film & did I already mention that the film is slow & virtually nothing happens for the first 70 odd minutes ? The Caretaker feels like a cheap slow moving reenactment of the classic slasher Hell Night ( 1981 ) with the young teen party goers who end up at an old house with various legends as a set-up to scare some girls & then run into the real thing as it were only a lot less interesting , a lot slower & frankly not as good in any regard . A really dull , boring , bloodless & slow teen slasher that I am not sure who it will appeal to . Certainly not me . Aa I have already said there's no gore at all , sure there's a few dead bodies seen with some fake blood on them but no proper special effects or kill scenes which to me is odd since surely the whole point of a teen slasher are the kill scenes ? The film just doesn't satisfy on any level I'nm afraid & if it weren't for some brief female nudity then surely The Caretaker would pass a ' PG ' all day long . Another big problem I had with The Caretaker was the setting , the house used looks very middle-class , not that big & unimposing unlike the huge spooky cobweb strewn mansion from Hell Night for example . This boring location has no atmosphere at all & since the house is so small ( only one storey ) there's not a whole lot of stalking going on . Filmed in San Marcos in California this has reasonable production values & at least it doesn't look like it was shot on a camcorder , there's none of that shaky look or ultra quick editing either which is nice but since the film is poor anyway that's hardly a recommendation . The acting is alright , there's a couple of ' names ' in the cast including Jennifer Tilly & Judd Nelson who obviously needed the money . The Craetaker is a bloodless bore of a teen slasher with all the usual lows but none of the hoped for highs , there are dozens of much better teen slashers out there for anyone to be bothering with this .
Pretty bad film featuring a good cast .	Underworld starts as English high class hooker Nicole ( Nicola Cowper ) is kidnapped from her brothel . Rich businessman Hugo Motherskille ( Steven Berkoff ) hires her ex love Roy Bain ( Larry Lamb ) to find her , he heads straight for the brothel where he finds out she was addicted to a new drug called ' WhiteMare ' developed by posh Doctor Savary ( Denholm Elliott ) as a cure for heroin addiction . Unfortunately while it cured the test subjects of their addiction to heroin they became addicted to WhiteMare itself & it also has unwanted body deforming consequences & side effects . Not good really . However Nicole seems immune to the drugs side effects & a group of deformed users want to know why , it's up to Roy to sort this mess out & rescue Nicole . . . Known as Transmutations in the US this English production was directed by George Pavlou & quite frankly is crap . The script by James Caplin & Clive Barker based on one of his stories never really gets going , it never involves you , you never care about anything , it's slow , it's dull , it's utterly predictable with a pointless twist you can see coming a mile off & it's just not much fun to watch either . Being based on a story by Barker you would expect plenty of monsters & gore but Underworld features a few tardily made up creatures who get about 10 minutes worth of screen time & absolutely no gore whatsoever . I'm sure the artwork on any DVD / video release plays up the mutants involvement in the film but seriously they don't feature properly until past the hour mark & even then their presence is underwhelming . Most of Barker's work deals with religion & mystical reasoning behind his monstrous creations but here it all revolves around a drug , yawn . Then there's the fact that London seems deserted , the character's & dialogue are poor & for some reason everyone has bizarre names like Pepperdine , Motherskille , Fluke & Nygaard . We never learn why Nicole is immune to the drugs side effects either even though it's an important plot point , it's a film where you just don't care about anything that's happening on screen . Director Pavlou also directed the Barker penned adaptation of Rawhead Rex ( 1986 ) a year later , why did Barker choose him again ? Underworld is a totally flat , dull & lifeless 100 odd minutes . He seems to think as long as he bathes every shot in pink , purple , orange & blue neon that's enough to turn in a stylish flick , well he's wrong as it gets very samey very quickly & since the on screen action is so dull the awkward lighting stands out like a sore thumb . Disappointingly the film lacks imagination as well , the underworld mutants are just actors with lumps on their faces & apart from one brief scene at the end when someone pulls some skin of their cheek there isn't a single drop of blood in the entire thing . It's definitely not scary , it's certainly has no tension & has precisely zero atmosphere . Technically the film is pretty good actually , it's well made I suppose & looks very professional . How on Earth did they get such a good cast to agree to appear in this ? Denholm Elliott , Steven Berkoff , Art Malik , Ingrid Pitt & Miranda Richardson all deserve better than this . Underworld is a poor Clive Barker penned film , I'd imagine most of the blame has to go to first time director Pavlou who probably ruined Barker's scripts ( Barker himself admitted he directed Hellraiser ( 1987 ) himself because of his dissatisfaction with the results of both Underworld & Rawhead Rex ) . A disappointing waste of time , steer clear which won't be a problem as it's pretty obscure & hopefully it'll stay that way . Not to be confused with the Kate Beckinsale big budget horror action flicks Underworld ( 2003 ) & it's sequel Underworld : Evolution ( 2006 ) .
The sequel that nobody wanted , at least it's not as bad as Tobe Hoopers original .	Four heavily armed men wearing balaclavas burst into the ' Arizona Millennium Bank ' and proceed to rob it . Before they can escape the police turn up and the following shoot-out ends in a massacre of both police and innocent customers . The four robbers manage to escape unharmed . Then it's off to ' Orange County Airport ' . One of the stewardess on flight 211 to Accapulco named Mia ( Heidi Lenhart as Heidi Noelle Lenhart ) talks to her boyfriend , Zach ( Chuck Walczak ) who's already there sunning himself by a pool . Mia says she'll be there soon . The four bank robbing murderers from the opening sequence , Max ( Darryl Theirse ) , Sol ( Jon Sklaroff ) , Squid ( James Parks ) and Pete ( Billy Reick ) are also going to Accapulco on flight 211 , and manage to smuggle guns , ammunition and stolen money on board . Crocodile 2 was obviously made before a certain date that will go down in history . Julie ( Anna Cranage ) is the other stewardess . As they fly , the plane encounters awful weather conditions , a violent thunder storm . The pilot ( Dan Martin ) is told to turn back . Max , Sol , Squid and Pete are rather unhappy about this and hijack the plane . Max and Squid burst into the cockpit and force the pilot to carry on to Mexico . Sol and Pete try to keep the passengers under control , to prove his point Sol shoots a kid in the face called Sean ( Sean Euro ) . Hearing the gunshot Max and Squid are distracted in the cockpit and the pilot and his co-pilot ( Eddy Chamichian ) sense their chance and try to disarm Max and Squid . In the ensuing struggle the planes instruments are damaged and the plane crashes in ' Devils Swamp ' , somewhere in Mexico . Max , Sol , and Squid survive . As does Julie and Mia , plus the obligatory teenager Brian ( Steve Moreno ) , a lawyer named Justin ( David Valcin ) , a nurse ( possibly Rachel Henry who is listed as ' injured passenger ' , the filmmakers don't even bother to give her an on screen name ) and the pilot . Max convinces the survivors to carry their stolen money across the swamps to a village named Santa Christo , by pointing guns at them and shooting the already injured nurse dead , because she will slow them all down . The pilot is suddenly attacked and killed by a crocodile . Max and Co . shoot the crocodile dead . They all head off into the swamp . A massive crocodile finds it's mate floating dead on the surface of the swamp . It sets out for revenge . First of all it eats Julie . Meanwhile , in Accapulco Zach has heard about the plane crash on the box . He hires Roland ( Martin Kove ) to help him track down Mia who he believes may still be alive . They manage to find Mia , and the rest of the survivors . Zach and Roland are then also thrown into the situation and have to survive the killer crocodiles constant attacks . Will they be able to make it back to civilisation or possibly be rescued before they all end up as crocodile food ? Watch it to find out ! Directed by Gary Jones this isn't a particularly great film but is a lot better than Tobe Hoopers original Crocodile ( 2000 ) . The script by Jace Anderson and Adam Gierasch , who both helped write the screenplay for the original , is split in two . The first half is a bank heist film , the robbery and the plane hijack . The crocodile doesn't appear until after the 45 minute mark and then the film becomes a pretty straight horror for the rest of it's run time . The ending is a bit stupid and I'm not entirely convinced that what happened would be possible in reality . The script features a silly amount of bad language , in fact it becomes extremely irritating as the bad guys have to swear every couple of words . It's reasonably well paced and mildly entertaining for what it is . This is a film where the script probably looked half decent , unfortunately the filmmakers didn't really have the money or dare I say it , the talent to make it work . I mean the plane crash probably sounded cool as the written word but the finished sequence ended up rather lame with poor special effects , the same could also be said for the fight Roland and Max have in a helicopter as it flies over the swamp . The special effects are mixed , they range from awful to OK but their generally better than the original's . There's not much gore , but the attacks all contain a fair amount of blood . Most of the actors are forgettable except Martin Kove who is pretty watchable and doesn't deserve to be reduced to making films like this . Not particularly good , but it just about kept me entertained for 90 odd minutes on a certain level .
Another low budget rip-off disaster from The Asylum .	Exorcism : The Possession of Gail Bowers starts six weeks after the death of teenager Gail Bowers ( Erica Roby ) mom & dad as she moves to a new home in a new state with her now legal guardians her older sister Anne ( Noel Thurman ) & her husband Clark Pederson ( Griff Furst ) . At first things seem alright but that that doesn't last for long as Gail begins to change , she starts to sleepwalk , talk in ancient Latin , her voice suddenly becomes very deep , she spouts obscenities & begins to undergo a dramatic & horrifying change of personality . Anne & Clark call in a shrink , Dr . Richard Thornhill ( David Shick ) who quickly comes to the realisation that Gail is possessed by a demon , as you would . Thornhill approaches the Church & ask's for help in performing an exorcism , the only thing he believes that can save Gail . . . Written & directed by low budget horror regular Leigh Scott this is yet another ' mockbuster ' rip-off which obviously takes it's inspiration & title from The Exorcist ( 1973 ) & to a lesser extent The Exorcism of Emily Rose ( 2005 ) from The Asylum who specialise in this sort of cheap low budget horror themed cash-on of big budget Hollywood flicks . I must admit I think The Asylum make some of the worst films out there , do they even try to make good films ? They seem to have this formula where they rip some well known film off with a catchy & familiar sounding title , try to include maybe one or two has-been actors for name value & try to include one or two sequences that will look good in a trailer & they just stick to it . Not wishing to sound too unkind the majority of their output is absolutely dreadful both technically & conceptually . Anyway , Exorcism : The Possession of Gail Bowers doesn't buck the trend & this is one long , dull , boring , predictable & tedious rip-off of The Exorcist , that really is the best way to describe it . The possessed teenage girl trapped in her room & tied to her bed , an early scene with a Ouija board , frantic parents seeking help first from doctor's & then priest's , the final climatic exorcism which is so badly written & handled it's untrue & a few of the notorious trademark scenes from The Exorcist are clearly replicated here such as the spider walk ( quite literally here as Gail walks up a wall ) , speaking in an ancient language , lots of unintentionally funny porno dialogue as Gail spouts various obscenities & of course the final exorcism itself which is performed by a priest wearing sunglasses ! The whole film is misjudged , it goes from being unintentionally hilarious to being unintentionally awful to unintentionally boring , or at least I hope it was unintentional . Character's , dialogue & the plot are all well below average as is the film as a whole . If you were to look in the bathroom mirror & see strips of your flesh peeling from your face what would you do ? Think about it for a moment . Right I doubt very much that anyone reading this would have thought to themselves ' undress & take a shower ' but that's precisely what one teenage girl decides to do in this . Yes that's right , after seeing the skin on her face literally fall off she takes her clothes off ( gratuitous breast shot included ) & takes a shower . Does that make any sort of sense to anyone ? The gore is tame , there's a bit of blood , scissors stuck in someones shoulder , a stabbing or two & that's about it . There's not too much GCI here thankfully . I was extremely surprised not to see a vomiting scene in this , despite being probably the most famous scene in The Exorcist there's no recreation here which is odd since Exorcism : The Possession of Gail Bowers rips pretty much every other significant scene in The Exorcist off . Forget about any scares as it's all rather inept & cheap looking , the last twenty odd minutes & the exorcism itself is an eyesore of bad lighting & camera angles . It seems actor turned directed Griff Furst has a lead role in this , he would go on to make three of the worst films ever in Universal Soldiers ( 2007 ) , I Am Omega ( 2007 ) & 100 Million BC ( 2008 ) all for The Asylum & all ' mockbuster ' rip-offs . Overall the acting isn't that good & I don't actually recognise anyone from this . Exorcism : The Possession of Gail Bowers sounds like a cheap rip-off , it looks like a cheap rip-off & is a cheap rip-off . Anyone with no standards at all might like it but anyone looking for a decent horror film would be better served watching The Exorcist again .
Low budget rubbish .	Ice Queen starts as a military convoy is attacked by someone or other , the film doesn't think such details are important so why should we , & a unique prehistoric humanoid shaped female Ice Queen ( Ami Chorlton ) creature recently discovered is stolen . Scientist Dr . Goddard ( Daniel Hall Kuhn ) decides to transport the Ice Quen to somewhere not far from the Snowshed Ski Resort Lodge by plane , unfortunately the cold temperature outside revives the Ice Queen & she kills the pilot , the plane crashes , causes an avalanche which buries the ski lodge trapping Johnny ( Harmon Walsh ) & his buddies . Besides having to survive the avalanche Johnny & his buddies also have to contend with the Ice Queen who kills on sight . . . Co-edited , co-written & directed by Neil Kinsella this is yet another brainless straight-to-video / DVD low budget piece of crap horror film with lots of unintentional comedic moments . The script by Kinsella , producer Peter Beckwith & David Williams is boring , dull , clichéd & full of plot holes . The whole Ice Queen thing is wrong , no explanation is given as to what she is , when the equipment in the back of the plane stops working there would have been all sorts of alarms going off as is the case with medical equipment , if Ed phoned the emergency services to report an avalanche they couldn't just say ' we don't believe you ' & not bother to investigate , the emergency services are obliged by law to respond to a call for help & that's a basic fact . I could go on but you get the idea , the script is dumb & had little thought put into it . The character's are awful , they do stupid things , they split up , no-one seems that bothered about being trapped under an avalanche of snow or that some of their mates have been killed & are dead & they are just plain annoying . The film seems to go on for ages , it's boring , it's predictable , it's stupid & it's not a film I enjoyed . Director Kinsella doesn't do much to liven things up , the direction is poor & the film has pacing problems . The Ice Queen herself is awful , she has these spastic looking exaggerated movements , she stares , sneers & wiggles her tongue at the camera & she just looks retarded . It's not scary , there's no excitement , tension or atmosphere . There's no gore either , someone has their hand pulled off , there are several scenes of the Ice Queen sticking her hand into people's chests & that's it . I will admit though that the avalanche scene is quite well done even though it steals footage from the film Avalanche ( 1999 ) so I can't give it that much credit since the best sequence in the film was at least in part stolen from another film . Also , when Johnny & his mates crawl out of that air vent at the end there's no snow anywhere & the ground is dry , where did the snow that covered the building go all of a sudden ? Also , why didn't the avalanche destroy the jacuzzi & who left it on ? Technically the film is alright , it's nothing special but it's reasonably well made . Apparently shot in Vermont . The special effects are OK & better than a lot of low budget horror films of recent times . The acting is poor by no-one you've ever heard of . Ice Queen is one of those dumb low budget shot on a camcorder type horror flicks the kind everyone seems to think they can make . I didn't like it & I doubt many will .
Awful sequel set in outer space .	Fortress 2 starts as escaped convict & terrorist John Henry Brennick ( Christopher Lambert ) is recaptured by the Men-Tel corporation & sent right back to prison . Brennick is at first confident that he can escape again but isn't so sure when he realises he is incarcerated in a prison floating in outer space . To add to his problems are a bunch of nasty Russian gangsters , Sato ( Yuji Okumoto ) one of the sadistic prison guard's & the prison Govenor Petet Teller ( Patrick Malahide ) who lost his original high powered job when Brennick escaped from the Fortress seven years earlier & he wants revenge . However Brennick is determined to overcome these obstacles , escape & once again see his wife & son . . . Also known under the title Fortress 2 : Re-Entry this Americam Luxembourg co-production was directed by Geoff Murphy & was the sequel to the surprise sci-fi action thriller success Fortress ( 1993 ) with Christopher Lambert which did quite well on video & was a pretty good film too , unfortunately Fortress 2 isn't a good film & I have no hesitation in describing it as total crap . The whole gimmick of Fortress2 being set in outer space doesn't add up to much & the scientific physics don't really convince , for instance space shuttles dock within what seems like seconds & a totally ridiculous scene in which Lambert is blasted into outer space without a spacesuit or anything & manages to ' swim ' his way across to another door & survive by simply holding his breath ! There'a also an unintentionally hilarious part when they fix a security camera to a Cockroach & the Govenor steps on it & Lambert goes up to the inmate who was keeping the Cockroach as a pet , puts his arm around his shoulder & ruefully says in all seriousness ' it was for a good cause ' . The pace is alright & the film moves along but the story is pretty much the same as the original with Lambert trying to escape from a seemingly inescapable prison that has a slightly demented Govenor , a female computer & some sadistic prison guard's . Been there , seen it all before & brought the T-shirt . The special effects are a mixed bag , some of the CGI computer effects are alright while others are awful . The sets look cheap & the film has an ugly look about it . The action scenes are very flat & unimpressive , they have no pace or excitement & apart from one or two half decent punch ups Fortress just doesn't deliver on the action from & since the sci-fi aspect looks so cheap & have no regard to accuracy that the whole film just doesn't work or satisfy . With a supposed budget of about $12 , 000 , 000 I can't really see where the money went if that figure is true , filmed in Luxembourg the production values look cheap . The acting isn't anything to write home about , Lambert looks like he is just going through the motions , Patrick Malahide is awful as the main villain while veteran actress Pam Grier looks embarrassed to be here which is understandable . Fortress 2 is a terrible sequel to a pretty decent sci-fi action thriller that didn't deserve a sequel as bad as this but got one anyway , what can I say this poor both conceptually & technically .
" Don't you have nothing better to do with your time . . . like jerk off " Dull psycho slasher film without much psycho slashing .	Bloodrage starts with a small town prostitute named Beverly ( Judith-Marie Bergan ) seeing a regular named Charlie ( Jerry McGee ) out the door as her boyfriend arrives , a local cop named John Ryan ( James Johnson ) who knows about her chosen career but turns a blind eye . Once he leaves Beverly is visited by a young , shy & sexually repressed man named Richard ( Ian Scott ) who , in certain scenes , is a dead ringer for Christopher Walken . Anyway , Beverly invites him in & says that she has noticed him watching her & that he has to pay her for her time whether he stays or not . Richard doesn't like her demanding money from him & when she threatens to call her boyfriend Ryan , Richard becomes violent & aggressive . In an ensuing struggle Richard pushes Beverly & she ends up going head first through a window & ends up with her throat being slit on the broken glass in the frame . At that moment Ryan drives up outside the house in his squad car but is held up talking to a guy named Gus ( Patrick Hines ) about nothing in particular . Richard has to think & act quickly , he cleans the blood up ( gee , large amounts of blood sure does come off white walls without leaving a single trace easily & quickly doesn't it ? ) & hides Beverly's body in a closet just as Ryan enters the house . Even though he thinks it seems a little strange that Beverly has all but disappeared eventually Ryan leaves & then Richard disposes of Beverly's body out back , Richard then hitch hikes & gets into a truck which takes him to Times Square , New York City . There he rents a crappy run down hotel room , finds a job in a beer packing factory & befriends one of his neighbours , Candice ( Rita Ebenhart ) . However , because of the pressures of living in New York Richard soon feels the urge to kill again & singles out yet another prostitute , this time named Lucy ( Blair Trigg ) . By some bizarre coincidence Ryan feels that Beverly might have gone to New York & sets off to find her , he contacts detective Tom Malone ( Lawrence Tierney ) & asks around at various strip bars . By an even more amazing chain of coincidences Ryan becomes aware of Richard & sets out to stop him & gain some revenge . . . Produced & directed by Joseph Zito I thought Bloodrage was a little bit too dull & slow for my liking . The script by Robert Jahn is poorly paced as it starts out very well with the brutal murder of Beverly but then goes into a real lull for an absolute age from which it never really recovers . The character of Richard is a problem , he never interacts with anyone at any point in the film as a normal person except his neighbour Candice & even then it's hardly a normal relationship . We know virtually nothing about him when Bloodrage starts & more or less the same when it finishes , Richard is given a few monologues to try & give him some personality , background & motivation but they aren't overly effective or insightful . The script tries to paint Richard as a normal everyday person living a dull 9 to 5 life in isolation , that's fine I suppose but it's not what I personally want to see in a film as most of us live that life anyway . Occasionally Richard decides to take out his pent up frustrations out on women & he justifies his actions by the fact they are prostitutes & strippers . The coincidences which lead Ryan to both New York & Richard are rather far fetched , Bloodrage ends very abruptly as well . This is a film which concentrates on set up so don't expect a high body count , in fact Richard only kills three people during the film , & one dog . There's not much blood or gore , the slit throat by broken glass is quite nasty but the other two are strangulations & contain no blood even though they are surprisingly brutal & cold . Technically Bloodrage is generally fine throughout even if it isn't going to win any awards , the acting was surprisingly strong & the seedy late 70's New York Times Square locations really add to the unsettling atmosphere , it's just a shame the film plods along at such a slow pace . Even at a relatively short 77 minutes I won't be watching Bloodrage again anytime soon that's for sure , having said that I didn't think it was a complete waste of time just a somewhat misguided attempt at a serious portrait of the beginnings of a serial killer . Unfortunately I can't recommend Bloodrage to anyone as it's just too slow , dull & ultimately provides little in the way of entertainment value but it isn't without one or two merits .
" Life's a bummer . " Another dull & boring moralistic Quincy episode .	Quincy M . E . : A Cry for Help starts as troubled & depressed teenager Julie Bonner ( Megan Wyss ) calls her father ( Richard Gautier ) who is too busy with his work to talk to her , several hours later & Los Angeles coroner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) is examining her dead body at the side of a highway . Back in the laboratory & the autopsy confirms Julie died from a gunshot wound to the chest but the blood pattern at the scene of the crime points to Julie's body having been moved , Lt . Monahan ( Garry Walberg ) suspects murder & feels Julies boyfriend Joby Kenyon ( Thom Bray ) is responsible . After questioning Joby claims Julie committed suicide , to try & prove Joby's innocence Quincy's fiancé Dr . Emily Hanover ( Anita Gillette ) performs a psychological autopsy on Julie to determine her state of mind . . . Episode 13 from season 8 this Quincy story was directed by Ray Austin & is yet another really bad heavy-handed moralistic episode that I freely admit I have a strong dislike for , I like Quincy best as a series when there's a murder mystery of some sort & Quincy has to use his detective skills & medical expertise to crack , solve or prove a case & I find these moral episode horrible to watch . A Cry for Help opens promisingly as Quincy is called to autopsy the body of Julie & he has his suspicions that her body was moved & I'm thinking this could be a decent mystery episode but then the truth is discovered within ten minutes & the rest of A Cry for Help focuses on teenage suicide & the uplifting message that no matter how bleak things seem there's always light at the end of the tunnel & you just have to make it there . Please . This is pretty much 50 minutes of my life wasted , Quincy barely features & his annoying fiancé Emily takes center stage as she reels off a stream of very unsubtle statistics like the suicide rate in awkward & very forced sounding dialogue between herself & Quincy as they discuss the case . This is a totally unremarkable & forgettable episode in every sense , it's almost entirely exposition based with little or no dramatic incident . You know life is full of problems we have to overcome , our parents have to work & you know they have lives of their own too & I just found this whole episode very outdated , misjudged & preachy like a lot of Quincy from season eight . The acting is below par here , Klugman is being relegated to less & less screen time as season eight continues & surely that's a bad thing ? It just seems Quincy is being hijacked by some other horrible show I don't like & everything that made it a classic & so enjoyable is fast disappearing , lets face it it's no surprise the network pulled the plug on the show after the generally awful season eight . A Cry for Help is another Quincy episode that I really disliked , it has none of the factor's which has made me such a fan of the show for the previous seven seasons & is just awful really . Another disappointment in a very disappointing season so far .
The first of the moralistic episodes .	Quincy M . E . : A Good Smack in the Mouth starts late one Californian night as Melissa Asten ( Barbara Babcock ) stops to pick up a young nine year old boy named Joseph Harrison ( Shane Sinutko ) who is standing on the side of a freeway hitching a ride , a short time later Melissa is involved in an accident & her car ends up in a ditch on the side of the road . Since Dr . Asten ( John S . Ragin ) is out of town his friend Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) is informed that Mrs . Asten is in hospital , he visits her & also visits the boy Joey & after looking at his x-rays is shocked to see lots of injuries , the only explanation is child abuse & he is determined to protect Joey from his abusive parents . . . Episode 8 from season 2 this Quincy story was directed by Jackie Cooper & has the ( unwanted in my opinion ) distinction of being the first almost entirely social or moralistic issue based episode of Quincy & I pretty much hated every heavy handed preaching second of it . The main theme that A Good Smack in the Mouth tackles is the sensitive issue of child abuse which is fine but I don't really want to be watching such things , I want to be entertained & I much prefer the murder mystery episodes which involve laboratory work & Quincy playing detective . Here there is no laboratory work at all , A Good Smack in the Mouth is also one of the very few Quincy episodes not to feature a single autopsy or even so much as a dead body . I also thought the story was poor & badly written , it is claimed that the victim of abuse will show much , much more love towards the abuser . Eh ? How does that work ? I simply cannot believe a nine year old child will show more love towards someone who is beating them , I would buy that the boy wouldn't want to make him angry but to show that much affection is just hard to believe . Even sub consciously through the likes of body language & tone of voice would have given the boy away . Then there's the idea that one parent would just stand by & let the other beat their child , I would buy that if both parents were beating the child or if one of the parents simply didn't care but in A Good Smack in the Mouth the mother clearly states she does care & I just can't believe one caring parent would let their partner beat their child for years & not do a thing about it . There's an amusing scene in A Smack in the Mouth when Quincy visits a bored half naked housewife named Mona who gives Quincy the come on until her big burly bearded husband comes home , it's a funny little scene & probably the best in the programme . The acting is pretty good here with Klugman shining as the caring coroner , he gets to show a bit of fatherly love as well towards the boy . A Good Smack in the Mouth is maybe the very first totally moralistic based Quincy episode & it's not a good one . I really didn't like it at all & thought the story was just unbelievable & didn't convince me at all .
" Do you know what it's like to make love to a drunk ? " Erm , yeah probably ! Terrible Quincy episode .	Quincy M . E . : Dying for a Drink starts as Dr . Asten ( John S . Ragin ) assigns Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) to re-autopsy one of his fellow coroners cases after the findings were disputed , reluctantly he agrees . Quincy discovers that major mistakes were made , on top of that coroner Dr . Lorraine Linderman ( Ina Balin ) has made several major mistakes in the past month & Dr . Asten is under pressure to sack her . Quincy convinces Asten to let his friend in personnel see Linderman's file to try & possibly understand what's up with her , one look at the file & it is clear that Linderman is an alcoholic . Quincy sets out to do all he can to help her get her life back on track . . . Episode 4 from season 8 this Quincy story was directed by Georg Fenady & in keeping with season 8 so far it's crap . Everything that I personally like about the show has been dumped in favour of heavy moral or social issues , there's no crimes , there's no detective work & there's just no interest or entertainment value anymore . I also disagree with the stance that the makers of this episode take , comparing alcoholism as a disease no different from heart disease or cancer is total nonsense & a notion which makes feeling any sympathy for Linderman nigh on impossible . We all have choices & it's down to the alcoholic themselves if they want to drink & get wasted & it's as simple & straight forward as that , I'm not saying that we can't help these people but at the end of the day they have the choice whereas no-one chooses to have heart disease . Then there's the leniency Dr . Asten shows Linderman , I'm sorry but in the real world in a high profile & important job like a coroner after the first major mistake you would be spoken to , after the second you would get a final warning & after the third you would be sacked & that's the way the world is , I'm damned sure not every employer will be as sympathetic as Asten is & maybe these alcoholics need to realise their actions have consequences . Just a thought . This episode of Quincy is as boring , dull & misjudged as they come . In fact the presence of Quincy isn't even needed here as he gets about 5 minutes screen time & does virtually nothing , this one was easy money for Klugman . As sometimes happens there's a shot at the very start when they show brief clips from the episode which isn't in the final version , see if you can spot it . If anyone ever says to you Quincy always sorts things out & there's always a happy ending point them in the direction of Dying for a Drink as the ending is as unhappy as they come with Linderman's husband leaving her for another woman & then committing suicide ! The acting is so-so here , Ina Balin returns to the series for a fifth & final time where she has played different character's in each of the episodes she's been in . She was last seen committing suicide ( again ) by letting a poisonous snake bite her in The Unquiet Grave ( 1982 ) near the end of season 7 . Dying for a Drink is one of the worst Quincy episodes I've seen , I love the show normally but season 8 is just plain bad , it's no wonder the show was canned at the end of it as the viewing figures were probably terrible & the audience feedback was probably awful . All I'll say is if it ain't broke don't fix it !
" The circumstances of his death are curious . " Dull as dishwater .	The Order starts in Rome where the head of a special order of priests who deal in ghosts & demons named Brother Dominic ( Francesco Carnelutti ) is found dead , cut to New York City where one of his order Alex Bernier ( Heath Ledger ) is contacted by top-brass Cardinal Driscoll ( Peter Weller ) who ask's him to investigate the mysterious circumstances surrounding Dominic's death . Along with his girlfriend Mara Willims ( Shannyn Sossamon ) & fellow priest Thomas Garrett ( Mark Addy ) Alex travels to Italy to delve into his mentor's death , as the truth begins to emerge it appears that Dominic was a ' Sin Eater ' someone who absorbed other's sins & lived with the burden of them so they could die peacefully & that the Church wasn't happy about his activities . Alex must do what's right even if it goes against what he believes . . . Also know under the title The Sin Eater this American German co-production was written , produced & directed by Bian Helgeland & didn't really do that much for me if I'm honest & I usually am , honest that is . Anyway lets start with the mess of a script that has some OK ideas but it's throughly predictable , excruciatingly dull & boring , really silly at times & it takes itself far too seriously . The whole concept is daft & while it thinks it's clever with it's oh so neat twist ending that ties everything up & brings the story full circle I thought it was the most obvious & lazy way to end things . There's the usual religious themes here , morality , sin , forgiveness , faith , belief , prophecy's , blah , blah , blah you know the sort of thing . Then there's the twists which aren't hard to see coming , there's the abuse of power by high ranking clergymen , corruption , greed , evil , etc . you know the sort of clichéd Hollywood ideals & themes that get reused every time it deals with the Church . The Order has nothing new to say & as a serious piece of film-making it sucks , a lot . I'm not too sure who The Order is meant to appeal to , as a die-hard horror fan I didn't see much horror in this at all , as a thriller it's less than thrilling , as a mystery it's too predictable & there's nothing here to really grip or maintain ones interest & for some reason I cannot figure out the IMDb also lists The Order as an action film which is absurd as it's as exciting & action-packed as the average episode of Sesame Street ( 1969 - present ) , harsh maybe but it's what I think . . . Director Helgeland does an OK job , the film seems to have a very soft lighting scheme & it all looks a bit drab , grayish & dull . For a supposed horror film The Order is very light on scares or horror elements , in fact there aren't any of either apart from two evil kids who can turn into a flock of birds for no apparent reason , don't ask . Forget about any gore or violence as there isn't any which is fine but it would have helped at least make The Order somewhat watchable . According the IMDb's ' Trivia ' section the release date of The Order was put back so some of the special effects could be improved because they looked unintentionally funny , all I can say is judging by the finished film the effects must have been really bad to start with because they aren't exactly brilliant as it stands now . I was amazed to see The Order had a budget of about $28 , 000 , 000 which is a hell of a lot of money & I just can't see where it all went apart from the sets & production design which are good . The whole film looks & feels very average & utterly forgettable . The acting is OK although the annoying fat guy who seems to be some sort of foul-mouthed comic relief irritates , a good actor such as Peter Weller deserves better than this . The Order , I prefer the title The Sin Eater actually not that it matters too much , misses all of it's intended targets by the proverbial mile as far as I'm concerned & is a pretty dull way to waste 100 odd minutes of your life so don't do it ! Not recommended .
" When a sting tipped tail starts growing out of my as what ya gonna call that then ? ! "	Scorpius Gigantus starts somewhere in Eastern Europe where an incognito U . S . military convoy is ambushed by the Russian mafia in the hope that one of the trucks contains uranium , they slaughter the American soldiers & steal the truck . They drive it to a disused warehouse & open the doors only to discover a genetically created creature that is a cross between a scorpion , water-bug & cockroach , it kills them . Major Nick Reynolds ( Jeff Fahey ) is informed by his boss Colonel Miller ( Ray Hartbarger ) that he & his team will be responsible for going in & sorting the whole mess out , unfortunately Miller doesn't tell Reynolds about the giant bug & some of his team are killed . The Government call in the scientist who created the creature Dr . Jane Preston ( Jo Bourne-Taylor ) to oversee the capture of the bug but as she insists on a live specimen for study Miller tells Reynolds neither he nor his team can use ammo , however the Scorpius gigantus hasn't read the script & kills anyone it comes across & to add to Reynold's problems it seems to be giving birth . . . Directed by Tommy Withrow I can't quite get my head around Scorpius Gigantus , for a start what a cool title but ultimately what a poor film . As I was watching Scorpius Gigantus last night the script by Raly Radouloff & Terence H . Winkless reminded me of another film called Carnosaur 3 : Primal Species ( 1996 ) also made by the same production company New Horizon Pictures & both were executive produced by the king of the rip-offs Roger Corman . It is amazing just how similar the two films are , from individual scenes & sequences which are almost exactly the same apart from the cast & instead of a dinosaur this time it's a mutant insect bug . The arm wrestling scene , the bit when they are examining a dead specimen on a table & it comes back to life with the same revelation that the creatures cells repair themselves , from the ambushing of an American convoy by bad guys who think they're stealing uranium but instead find a dodgy genetic experiment which kills them , the female scientist who wants them alive , the run down warehouse setting to the fact both share exactly the same ending aboard a ship . The thing is I only saw Carnosaur 3 : Primal Species two & a half weeks ago ( My IMDb comment for it is dated 30th July ) so it's still quite fresh & both films really are virtually the same , in fact I'd say this is more of a remake of Carnosaur 3 : Primal Species & follows it more closely than the recent Dawn of the Dead ( 2004 ) remake was to the original Dawn of the Dead ( 1978 ) & looking at the other comments for it I see I'm not the only one whose noticed this . As a film in it's own right it's poor , it's clichéd & extremely predictable , it's far too long at 100 odd minutes , the dialogue is bad , the character's are cardboard cutouts & there isn't an original idea within the whole film . Having said that it moves along at a reasonable pace , some of the dialogue is hilariously bad & there's one or two decent gore scenes , that's still not enough to save it though . Director Withrow doesn't distinguish the film from any-other low budget sci-fi / horror & as a whole it's pretty forgettable stuff . There's little excitement , no scares or atmosphere & serious lapses of logic within the story . The CGI effects are really bad , the creature looks awful & at times just seems an ugly mass of shapes . There's some decent gore though , people are cut in half , someone has their throat slit , there's severed arms , peoples guts are sucked out , someone gets infected & their face & neck swell up which then explode , there are various body parts flying about & a fair amount of blood . Technically Scorpius Gigantus is average looking made-for-TV stuff & won't impress anyone . The special CGI effects are poor although some of the gore effects are OK . The acting is bad , Jeff Fahey looks embarrassed & has every reason to . Scorpius Gigantus is a poor film in it's own right but I'm simply amazed at how closely it resembles Carnosaur 3 : Primal Species , why remake a film which in probability hardly anyone has ever heard of let alone seen . In this respect it might not actually be a big problem because many people haven't seen or heard of Carnosaur 3 : Primal Species , still a terrible film though .
Predictable soap opera .	Quincy M . E . : Quincy's Wedding : Part II ( it says ' Part II ' on screen & not ' Part 2 ' not that it matters much ) starts as Quincy's ( Jack Klugman ) & his fiancé Emily's ( Anita Gillette ) relationship lays in tatters after the wedding is called off . Meanwhile Edna ( Jeanette Nolan ) goes back to the rest home in order to flush out her husband's killer at her own risk . . . Episode 18 from season 8 this two part story was written & directed by Jeri Taylor & predictably revolves around Quincy getting married to Emily . To be honest I don't like the way Quincy has gone during season eight in particular & Quincy's Wedding feels more like some horrible soap opera with a highly predictable murder mystery sub plot that is so contrived & downright silly it's hard to keep a straight face when the killer is revealed . So Quincy finally gets married but why wasn't Brill or Eddie or Diane or even Pete the guard invited to the wedding ? They have been with Quincy since the series started seven & a half seasons ago so why were they left out ? I'm not being funny but I'd have been pretty upset at not being invited & I thought Quincy was better than that . During the wedding Quincy is only ever referred to by simply Quincy & his first name is never revealed . Quincy also says his vows to Emily which are quite poetic & sweet but then the scene is absolutely ruined by Emily who then bursts out in song & sings her vows , it's a truly teeth clenching moment of embarrassment that I don't want to even think about anymore . Speaking of Emily the actress who plays her Anita Gillette is awful , just look at the scene at the start of this episode when she overacts horribly on the phone to her mum when she's supposedly upset & crying . Quincy's Wedding : Part II is another terrible soap opera style Quincy episode where the makers are trying to change so many of the things which made me like the series so much until now that I just can't like it & as such I didn't like it .
" Shut up you one eyed bastrd ! " More Sci-Fi Channel ' Creature Feature ' crap from Roger Corman .	Cyclops is set in ancient Rome where three local men run into a giant bad tempered Cyclops who proceeds to kill & eat two of them , the third Roman guy escapes & reports back to the relevant authorities . Ruler of Rome Emperor Tiberius ( Eric Roberts ) commands his right hand man Falco ( Craig Archibald ) to order Roman soldier Marcus ( Kevin Stapleton ) to take his men & capture the Cyclops , what the boss wants the boss gets & Marcus does indeed capture the Cyclops & it is imprisoned for use in gladiatorial battle . Meanwhile a group of slaves try to escape & are caught , Marcus tries to free one of them & he is arrested for treason , all of them are ordered to fight in the Colosseum as gladiators for the entertainment of the Roman public who love this sort of stuff , apparently . The slaves , Marcus & the Cyclops decide not to fight each other but the brutal & corrupt regime of Tiberius as they seek their freedom . . . Directed by Declan O'Brien this is yet another Sci-Fi Channel ' Creature Feature ' that was shot in Bulgaria although set in ancient Rome & produced by B-Movie legend Roger Corman ( in an amazing career spanning over half a century he has nearly 400 credits as producer & over 50 as director ) & his wife Julie Corman , apart from one or two decent gore scenes & some unintentionally funny moment Cyclops has little if nothing going for it . First off despite being set in ancient Rome the makers were not interested in historic accuracy so don't expect a history lesson as the dialogue feels very modern rather than how you would expect the ancient Romans to speak , While the first half of Cyclops is quite fun in a fast paced but very daft & sometimes embarrassing sort of way it quickly descends into a Gladiator ( 2000 ) rip-off with some former Roman army dude being betrayed & becoming a gladiator . I can't believe I just compared Cyclops to the multi Oscar winning Gladiator ! In terms of quality the two are literally worlds apart . Cyclops is at it's best during the first half when it's more of a ' Creature Feature ' with the Cyclops running amok in ancient Roman killing lots of people in fairly gory ways , the only problem is it doesn't last & if that's really the only thing a film has going for it then there's something wrong . Most of the usual clichés , predictability , happy endings all round & poor scripting are present . The one thing that did surprise me about Cyclops is how gory it was , there are ripped-off heads , heads cut off with axes , ripped-off limbs , blood splatter , the Cyclops takes revenge on an annoying kid & bites his hand clean off , it rips someones leg off , there are some ripped open stomachs , a guy is impaled on a spear , there's a slashed throat & more . The only problem are the CGI computer effects which render some of the gore scenes laughable & speaking of CGI computer effects lets talk about the title character himself . There is not one single special effect shot in Cyclops that I would even consider as convincing , the CGI Cyclops effects are truly awful , it changes size between shots & the animation is absolutely dreadful . Yout average Playsatation game looks better . The scenes when the Cyclops begins to talk are unintentionally funny due to a really bad voice , awful lip sync & a stupid look monster . To be honest I would have no hesitation in saying master stop-motion animator Ray Harryhausen's Cyclops from The 7th Voyage of Sinbad ( 1958 ) is more realistic , has more charm & personality & is infinitely more watchable on screen & that was made half a century ago . There are a few hand to hand gladiatorial fights but they look sloppy & stilted & have no real energy or dynamism about them . The budget probably wasn't that high so one wonders why the production values are quite as good as they are & a little bit of research seems to suggest that Cyclops was shot on the same sets used for the lavish TV production of Spartacus ( 2004 ) so that explains that . Eric ' I'll star in anything for money ' Roberts ( the IMDb has him listed as being in ten films made in 2009 already & it's only the beginning of February ! ) is the name actor & looks bored frankly while I don't recognise anyone else from the cast . Cyclops has some nice sets ( left over from another production ) & has some surprisingly gory moments but overall the awful CGI computer effects renders every scene with the Cyclops laughable which is not what the makers intended . It's nice to see Roger Corman still cranking them out though even if this is as rubbish as most of his other output .
Another terrible straight-to-video / DVD piece of low budget horror crapola !	Freakshow is set in a circus where Lon ( Christopher Adamson ) runs a freak show , scheming blonde tart Lucy ( Rebekah Kochan ) & her slimy boyfriend Lee ( Mark Preston Miller ) decide to rip him off . They devise a plan where Lucy seduces Lan , gets him to propose to her & then kill him off leaving her to inherit all of his money so she & Lee can live happily ever after , simple eh ? What could go wrong ? Well , Lucy gets cold feet & her murderous plan is discovered & the freaks want revenge . . . Directed by Drew Bell & although uncredited & unacknowledged Freakshow is a remake of Tod Browning's controversial classic black and white horror flick Freaks ( 1932 ) , not wishing to put to fine a point on it Freakshow is frankly crap . The script by Keith Leopard is pretty faithful to Browning's original but with several changes , the basic story of a ' normal ' person trying to exploit the freaks by marrying into their number is still present & correct but it's the character's which are the main difference . In the original the Lan character was a midget called Hans & he is presented as a naive lovestruck child , someone to sympathise with & feel sorry for , here in Freakshow Lan is depicted as nothing more than a dirty old man who wants a nice young blonde girl to give him a blow job when he wants , motivation which just doesn't entice the same sort of feelings towards him . In the original the Lucy character was named Cleopatra & again in a way you could see that she was evil but wanted a good life of her own with her boyfriend , here Lucy is just a slut who is used by both Lan to get a blow job & by her boyfriend to help him steal Lan's money & she falls for it . In the original the freaks themselves were proper character's , here they are just a collection of amputees missing various limbs , dwarfs , retards , a strongman & a half-man half-woman thing who barely feature . The dialogue is poor , the character's turn the original story from a sometimes moving piece involving real people into a standard low budget horror where you don't care about anyone & to top it all off it's seriously slow & boring with virtually no exploitation or gore at all . There's one bit in this I don't get , Lucy refuses to drink out of a bowl that the freaks had just drank out of fearing drinking their spit , however it is also shown that Lucy has no problem having sex or giving a blow job to a man old enough to be her dad & literally covered in warts & boils ! Director Bell does nothing to make this watchable , the entire circus consists of three tents , one carousel & a ferris wheel which no-one ever visits ! This film has the most number of slow , boring & utterly pointless fades to black at the end of a scene I've ever seen in a single film , it also has some utterly awful gramophone style 20's & 30's music constantly playing on the soundtrack to maybe try & evoke an atmosphere like the original 1932 version ? The film is also shot in a sepia tone ( again maybe to try & mimic the original black and white original ) which gives everything a candle lit orange type hue , like yeah that's original isn't it ? There's very , very little gore here , the filmmakers hired some of those masochist type guy's who hang themselves on hooks which piece their skin & can be found just about everywhere to do several hooks piecing the skin on their backs type scenes , there's a bit when someone cuts a girls scalp off , someone head is bashed in ( off screen ) , someone is hit with a wrench ( off screen ) , someone is stabbed with a knife , someone has part of their throat bitten out & the end sequence which doesn't last that long & is again full of annoying slow fade to black shots when Lucy has her lips sewn shut , the skin on her body sliced off as well as the skin on her face in a scene which is much less effective than a similar one in The Texas Chainsaw Massacre 2 ( 1986 ) . With a supposed budget of $1 , 000 , 000 one has to say Freakshow felt like it had a lower budget than that & I wouldn't be surprised if it was . It looks grubby & cheap with horrible music , annoying editing , poor special effects & a circus which consists of about three tents in a field . The acting sucks as well . Freakshow is a terrible film to be sure , it's one of those films which promises much but delivers nothing . There's no gore for 80 minutes , the character's are awful & if you don't think that matters watch the original again & see the difference . It's throughly boring to sit through as well , one to avoid .
" There's a homicidal scarecrow out there . " Pretty bad low budget horror nonsense .	Scarecrow Gone Wild starts as high school teenager Mike ( David Zelina ) & his mates decide to to give a ' hazing ' to wimpish diabetic Sam ( Caleb Roehrig ) as an initiation of some sort . Mike & his mate decide to take Sam to a corn field , tie him to a cross next to a freaky looking scarecrow & leave him there all night , sounds like fun right ? Well , things backfire when Sam goes into a diabetic coma after suffering from a hypo & the vengeful spirit of Sam passes into the scarecrow which comes to life & starts to hunt down the kids responsible for Sam's unfortunate life-threatening predicament . Can Sam's best mate Jack ( Matthew Linhardt ) & his girlfriend Beth ( Samantha Aisling ) save the day & Sam's life ? Written & directed by Brian Katkin Scarecrow Gone Wild is the third straight-to-video entry in the Scarecrow series & while I haven't seen either of the previous two after seeing Scarecrow Gone Wild I'm certainly in no hurry to change that situation that's for sure . The script actually has an almost decent premise as the wronged soul of Sam seeks revenge & his friends have to keep the real Sam alive somehow but the way it is told is poor & I suppose that basically it's just an irrelevance to the fact that this is a film about a killer scarecrow running around killing people in not very gory or imaginative ways . Having said that there are one or two scenes here which save it from a one star rating , the fart gag in the corn field is funny & something a lot of immature blokes might do ( like me ) , the bit when two guys bury their mate in the sand & then stand over him & pee on him is also rather funny in a laddish juvenile way & a cool bit when some guy starts singing an awful song so the scarecrow throws a pole which impales him ! However these OK bits are few & far between & as a whole it's a silly , boring , poorly written teen slasher film with highly annoying character's who irritate . It ' also very predictable & has a stupid twist ending which doesn't really feature the scarecrow at all which is a problem as when you watch a film called Scarecrow Gone Wild you expect to see a scarecrow go wild & I have to admit he looks quite cool as horror character's go . Director Katkin does a reasonable job here actually although what on Earth is up with that hospital at the end & all that neon lighting everywhere & the fact there is only one patient there & two members of staff ? The cinematography is much better than the usual straight-to-video low budget horror film of late & there's some nice , if totally unrealistic , lighting . The film lacks any real scares or tension & some of the medical terminology used throughout is a bit iffy to say the least & I say that as an insulin dependant diabetic myself . There's not much gore here , there's a couple of scenes where some actor has some fake guts placed on their stomach to represent them being gutted but it looks pretty fake , there's also a burned face & a couple of impalement's but little else . There's a fair amount of naked female breasts on show if that's your thing . Technically Scarecrow Gone Wild is pretty good considering some of the low budget abominations I've sat through recently , unfortunately it's still a poor film overall . The least said about the acting the better . Scarecrow Gone Wild isn't as bad as some of the straight-to-video horror crap that's been turning up recently but having said that it's not that much better & it's still a bad film when all said & done . Not recommended , the two previous entries are Scarecrow ( 2002 ) & Scarecrow Slayer ( 2003 ) both of which also went straight-to-video .
Horrible episode .	Quincy M . E . : The Flight of the Nightingale starts in Doctors Hospital where the nurses are overworked , underpaid & undervalued . Floor 4 head nurse Lynn Buchanan ( Georgann Johnson ) checks a patient named Walter McCowan & sees that he is in pain & that someone has turned off his heparin drip , a vital anticoagulant serum . Not seeing anything on McCowan's chart to the indicate the contrary Buchanan turns the drip back on , later that night McCowan dies & hospital administrator Brucher has no option but to suspend Buchanan who takes the blame for McCowan's death . After receiving great care at the hospital & from Buchanan in particular Dr . Robert Asten ( John S . Ragin ) ask's Los Angeles coroner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) to try & find another cause for McCowan's death & try to clear Buchanan as the other nurses at Doctors Hospital decide to go on strike in protest . . . Episode 17 from season 7 this Quincy story was directed by Gene Church & is one of those moralistic preachy Quincy episodes that I just can't stand . When Quincy is good & it's about some sort of murder or mystery that Quincy has to solve using his medical skills & knowledge & passion for the truth then I don't think there is a better crime drama out there . It can be funny , it can be intriguing , it can be be emotional & it can be surprising & original . Unfortunately The Flight of the Nightingale is everything that I hate about Quincy all rolled into one horrible episode that wasted fifty minutes of my life . For a start Quincy is barely in it , in fact he is relegated to a mere cameo & has no real impact on the main story . He never even goes to Doctors Hospital where all the trouble is happening & rather bizarrely he never even meets nurse Lynn Buchanan whom he is trying to save & exonerate which could be a first , I can't think of another episode of Quincy where Quincy doesn't even meet the other main character's . The whole episode is obviously a conscience pricking exercise in trying to highlight the job nurses do , the fact that they need to be paid more & given more respect & of course that they are essential to the running of a hospital . Yeah , yeah we get the point . There's no humour , there's no mystery , there's no murder , the character's are dull & the episode is just awful in it's outdated moralistic heavy handed preaching tale of social issues . I would say Klugman gets about two minutes of screen time in this , one scene at the start at Asten's house & three laboratory scenes is his sum total . Snce Klugman is one of the best things about Quincy that's not good . The title obviously refers to pioneering nurse Florence Nightingale rather than the national bird of Iran the Nightingale ! One of the few episodes which doesn't feature either Danny , his bar or a cheesy comedy moment at the end , in fact Quincy doesn't even appeal during the final ten minutes or so . Cynthia Harris makes the first of her two appearances as Asten's wife Louise . The Flight of the Nightingale is the sort of outdated dull & moralistic Quincy episode that I quite simply hate . The story sucks , Quincy is relegated to a brief cameo , the drama just isn't well written or acted enough to be truly effective & at only fifty odd minutes it doesn't really have time to tell an involved story .
Not good . Winning isn't everything , is it ?	Quincy M . E . : The Hope of Elkwood is set in the small Californian town of Elkwood where Los Angeles medical examiner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) is the guest of his friend & town solicitor Benjamin Nicholson ( John Elerick ) . While there Ben takes Quincy to Elkwood college to see Olympic gold medal prospect Bobby Nolan ( Clark Mitchell Long ) & his tough & demanding coach Marty O'Banion ( Frank Marth ) also known as ' Mad Man Marty ' . Later that night tragedy strikes & Bobby suddenly dies , according to the autopsy Bobby died from a split artery in his heart . The local Elkwood prosecutor has to decide whether Bobby died from a heart defect or excessive stress placed upon him by his coach O'Banion & eventually decides to charge O'Banion with involuntary manslaughter . Solicitor Nicholson takes the case & calls on his good friend Quincy to find the real medical reason as to why Bobby died & thus clear his client . . . Episode 5 from season 6 this Quincy story was directed by Richard Benedict & I have to say The Hope of Elkwood is just the sort of preaching heavy handed moralistic nonsense that I hate , it's the sort of Quincy episode designed & made entirely to raise some social issue or get some moral message across & these are the types of episodes which aren't fun to watch & have dated very badly . Here the whole point of The Hope of Elkwood is that winning at any cost isn't everything , sure you can be ambitious & want to be successful but when that single minded focus takes over your life & possibly puts it in danger then winning isn't worth it . Whether it's on a professional or personal level there are more things in life than just winning & that is the moral message that this episode pounds home from beginning to end . Quincy makes no more than a small cameo in this episode , most of the duration is spent with the solicitor Ben Nicholson who also becomes engulfed with the desire to win the case & begins to understand that winning isn't everything , this episode even refers to the Vietnam war & that winning isn't everything which is appropriate since the US didn't win . There is no murder , there is no mystery , there is no humour , there are no sympathetic character's & the plot is just one long rant against letting the desire to win & come first destroy your life . The Hope of Elkwood reminds me heavily of both The Winning Edge ( 1980 ) & T . K . O . ( 1980 ) from the end of season five in which young up & coming athletes or sports stars die as a result of being pushed or an unconnected medical condition , both feature distraught parents who want someone to ' blame ' & both feature the moral message that winning isn't everything . The Hope of Elkwood just seems like a total rehash of ideas & themes from those two episodes & Quincy himself barely features . Season six is the season in which Quincy started to go down the very moralistic route & as a result the much more entertaining stories about murder & the like were getting fewer & farer between . Apart from two sequences set in Danny's none of this episode is set in Los Angeles & none of it is set in the laboratory . Frank Marth makes the third of his five guest appearances on Quincy while Klugman doesn't get much to do in this episode . The Hope of Elkwood is a pretty rubbish moralistic episode that is a combination of The Winning Edge & T . K . O . , it's safe to say this is not one of my favourite episodes & looking at it I just can't see any redeeming features at all .
Bland Chuck Norris actioner .	The Hit-man ( the annoying IMDb spell-check automatically corrects the correct spelling without the ' - ' to Hit-man ) starts as Officer Cliff Garrett ( Chuck Norris ) & his partner Ronald ' Del ' Delany ( Michael Parks ) are about to bust some drug smugglers when Del turns on Cliff & shoots him . Miracuously Cliff survives against all the odds , jump forward 3 Years Later in Seattle , Washington & after having recovered Cliff is angry . Having changed his name to Danny Grogan he manages to infiltrate the biggest drug dealer in Washington's gang as his hit-man , the guy this drug dealer named Marco Luganni ( Al Waxman ) turns to if he wants someone out of the way . Recently Andre Lacombe ( Marcel Sabourin ) the main drug dealer from Vancouver has started to move into Luganni's territory so he sends Grogan to deal with him , as the bullets fly & people start to get killed a gang of Iranian's lead by Grogan's ex-partner Del also joins the fun & Grogon senses his opportunity to bring down lots of bad guy's all at the same time . . . This American Canadian co-production was directed by Chuck's brother Aaron Norris & is quite frankly pretty poor stuff from start to finish . Although bearing the infamous Cannon Group logo The Hit-man was only distributed by them & had nothing to do with Golan or Globus despite the two Israeli producers often using Chuck Norris in their own films . The script by Galen Thompson is a really lifeless & dull affair about an undercover cop using two warring drug cartels against each other & then discovers the person who shot him is involved as well which leads to some personal revenge type motives . The Hit-man really is a very pedestrian & bland film , virtually nothing happens , there are a grand total of two fights ( one in an Iranian bar & one at the very end ) , some utterly forgettable shoot outs where a few people are shot , one car gets blown up & another is crushed & that is it . There's far too much drama , personal angst & awful dialogue for The Hit-man to be enjoyable . There seems like huge sequences where literally next to nothing happens , seriously this is one of the most least action packed films I've seen recently . Then there's the embarrassing scenes with Chuck Norris trying to be kind & caring towards a young black kid ( all the kid needs now is a bushy moustache ) , the scenes where he teaches the little kid karate are hilariously bad . I mean yeah , that's a great example to the kid isn't it ? Fight violence with violence ! The Hit-man is bad , very bad & it's not unintentionally funny enough to be entertaining either . Director Norris does alright & The Hit-man is competently made but it's so lifeless , bland & forgettable it's untrue . There is not one single memorable sequence in The Hit-man as far as I was concerned , I was throughly bored sitting there watching it . It's utterly predictable , there's not enough decent action & some of the sentimental drama stuff is really embarrassing as Chuck Norris actually tries to act ( noooooooooooooooo ! ) . We first Chuck in The Hit-man with a really bushy moustache but after he comes back from the dead he has a full beard & really long hair which just looks awful & very late 80's . He doesn't even get to beat many people up which is disappointing all by itself . The violence is tame although some scumbag drug dealing Iranian has both his legs blown off with by Chuck's shotgun . Nice , ' ave it ! Technically the film is OK but functional at best , it's certainly not exciting & is so slow going it becomes a real chore to sit through . The acting is terrible , Norris can't & since there's not enough action for him to get stuck into it becomes very noticeable . The Hit-man is a really , really bland , dull & lifeless Chuck Norris action film with hardly any action in it . The film also seems to have a sentimental side as well which is just horrible & not fun to sit through . One of Chuck's worst & that's saying something , isn't it ?
Really awful low budget horror film , real life leeches don't suck as much as this .	Leeches ! is set in & around ' Lakecrest College ' somewhere in California where lately hunky dude Jason ( Josh Henderson ) has been having disturbing nightmares . Together with his girlfriend Casey ( Stacey Nelson ) they come to the conclusion that the steroids he has been taking may be responsible , you see Jason is aiming to get a swimming scholarship & has been taking steroids supplied by his best friend Stevo ( Matthew Twining ) . It's not like the rest of the swimming team aren't taking them is it ? As Stevo & Jason take a dip in a river blood-sucking leeches attach themselves to their backs & start drinking . They eventually discover the leeches & pull them off but don't kill them . . . Having drunk steroid loaded blood the leeches mutate into , well , bigger leeches . As an important swimming contest fast approaches Stevo puts pressure on another team member named Tony ( Stephen Swan ) to take a whole bag of steroids for even better performance , unfortunately Tony ends up in the river where even more leeches feast upon his blood which has a seriously high steroid content . It's not long before Lakecrest College is overrun with giant blood-sucking slimy mutant leeches & the students are on the menu . . . Co-produced & directed by David DeCoteau , who according to the IMDb also has a small uncredited role in the film as Franklin the Walkie Talkie Voice ( ! ) , Leeches ! is a very poor film throughout . The script by Michael Gingold could have been decent fun as a creature feature type horror but instead it's just lame , it's boring & has no depth as it skates over & all but ignores the drug usage issue . The character's are awful , the dialogue sucks & everyone is one dimensional teenage leech food & wouldn't you notice or feel a huge mutant leech crawling up your naked back ? It's one of those films which has an outrageous premise & promises so much but in the end I simply couldn't wait for it to end , speaking of the end there's a ' twist ' which comes from nowhere & seemed totally pointless . The body count is low & the leeches themselves are far from scary or threatening , in fact the real leeches used at the start are more effective than the stupid rubber ones . Leeches ! was one of two films director DeCoteau made during ' 03 , the other being Speed Demon ( 2003 ) , so you can probably guess the sort of time & commitment spent on Leeches ! First of all it's true what everyone says about Leeches ! , DeCoteau uses & films as many half naked young guys as he can . I can't remember a shot where a guy actually had a shirt on to be honest , constant shots of young men in their speedos as DeCoteau's camera can't get enough of it ! Surprisingly this was shot in a 2 : 35 : 1 aspect ratio ( basically you will have thick bars at the top & bottom of the screen if you see it that way ) which could have given DeCoteau the opportunity to make a nice looking & stylish film , he obviously passed the opportunity up . The violence & gore is as restrained as possible , someone coughs some blood up , a few leech bite marks & a decent bit where a wire slices through someone's throat . For some bizarre & highly annoying reason DeCoteau films the weak attack scenes with quick cuts & with strobe lighting effects which happen during the attack's but not before or after , the words cheap ' n ' nasty spring to mind . With a budget that probably wouldn't cover a round of drinks Leeches ! is a pretty shoddy production that was probably made with the video / DVD market in mind . Low production values , really poor special effects as the leeches themselves are mostly just glove puppets & are only filmed from half way up their bodies & Leeches ! just has that cheap vibe throughout . Leeches ! is a pretty poor film , to it's credit it's short & it moves along at a fair pace although generally speaking it's just poor . If you enjoy looking at half naked young guys then Leeches ! is definitely for you , if you enjoy a good horror film then Leeches ! definitely isn't for you .
" Event he mortally challenged need to be hugged . " Rubbish sub-par Romero zombie horror social satire .	Last Rites of the Dead is set in a world where the dead don't stay dead , any freshly deceased person returns to life as a zombie . Office worker Angela ( Gina Ramsden ) is shot dead by her abusive boyfriend Josh ( Joshua Nelson ) but she doesn't stay dead for long , Angela quickly learns that being a zombie is difficult . Your skin rots , you have no legal rights & you are treated as dirt by the living . As the debate rages over what should be done about the living dead a section of society who are against zombies having equal rights set up their own terrorist organisations who persecute the zombie population as they try to get on with their lives ( death's ? ) in normal society . Josh is one such extremist & joins one such organisation & uses his knowledge of Angela to help further his cause . . . Edited , written , co-produced & directed by Matt Fratto who also co-composed the music score & also known under the title Zombies Anonymous I have to say I thought this was crap despite all the glowing reviews from people who seem to have seen it at some obscure film festival & somehow that makes it great . Unfortunately I had to endure the full almost two hour cut of this crap rather than the shorter US DVD version which apparently makes no sense but would have thankfully lasted for twenty odd minutes less , I just have no luck at all . Last Rites of the Living Dead is an all too obvious take on the issue of mass immigration & racist attitudes . I guess the filmmakers were trying to go down the George A . Romero route by mixing zombies & ( rubbish unconvincing ) gore with a little bit of social commentary & satire but fail miserably , I will give Last Rites of the Dead some credit as the initial ten or fifteen minutes are quite good as the script focuses on the plight of a zombie in the real world , the fact they wouldn't be entitled to any money or have any rights , adverts on telly for make-up to hide rotting skin , the issue of termination centres & the basic core of the film the racist attitudes of the living . But once all the clever little allegories & references are out of the way including a support group for zombies in which they call themselves the ' mortally challenged ' the film focuses on the battle between some left wing Nazi style terrorist group who attack & kill zombies & Angela & her struggles to survive in the world as one of the living dead . The plot is poor , there's some crap about a zombie cult which in a way exonerates the racists & what they are doing , the character's are poor , the dialogue is rubbish with every other word being a profanity because that's as imaginative as the writers can be & the film never elaborates or builds on it's central premise & the issues & ideas it first brings up . I also thought the film was incredibly boring with poor narrative & a very bitty plot that falls apart at the end & becomes a mess . Don't let anyone con you into thinking this is gory , sure there's a bit of blood but it's very poorly realised with very watery blood & poor make-up effects created by the interestingly named ' Demonic Pumpkins ' whoever they are . There's some decapitations , some severed heads placed on stakes , there's a few exploding heads , a few bites , a bit of flesh eating , some blood splatter & a really poor scene in which Angela cuts Josh's testicles off & he just literally stands there & lats her do it . I'm not being funny but if I was stabbed in the groin I would at least take a few steps back to try & get away from my attacker , wouldn't you ? Or would you just stand there & let them continue to mutilate you ? The zombies in this aren't a bad lot really , they still have their human personalities & even though some like to eat human flesh most don't . Bless ' em . Shot almost entirely during the day in the cast & crews homes there's nothing scary here , there's no tension or atmosphere & the action & set-pieces are poorly handled throughout . Shot in New York this has all the production value & polish of one of my holiday videos , it looks awful with a really digital video camcorder look to it that I despise so much . I really wish filmmakers would go back to using grainy 35mmm film . Sigh . The acting by no-one I have ever heard of is up to the standard of the rest of the production , basically it's crap . Last Rites of the Living Dead had a few promising Romero style touches & ideas at the start but it all goes downhill very quickly & I thought it was pretty crap all round . It tries to clever & say something about immigration & racism in particular but it forgets all about the entertainment value in the process .
" Your a loser & your piece of sht film is going straight to cable . " Another low budget shot on a camcorder horror flick .	Back Slash is set on a college campus where aspiring filmmaker Ledo ( Stephen J . Burge ) is directing a horror film called ' Death Blood ' which is a self confessed cross between The Blair Witch Project & a Jason film , however his star Brenda ( Tara Platt ) is brutally murdered by someone dressed as the films killer . Then another young female student named Debbie ( Jill Uden ) is also killed in the same way , with a slash across her back & her liver cut out . The only link between the victims is that they were both voted the ' hottest girl on campus ' & appeared on a website , things don't look good for the two new hottest girl's on campus Martha ( Gretchen Akers ) & Amie ( Laura Bruner ) who are understandably worried . They decide to play detective & track the killer down & expose them before they become his next victim's . . . Written , produced & directed by Kevin Campbell who also is credited with playing the killer this cheap no budget slasher flick really isn't anything to get excited about at all , in fact to be brutally honest it's pretty bad all round . The script doesn't takes itself too seriously & is a straight rip-off of any low budget horror teen slasher film you care to mention , the identity of the killer comes as no real surprise & the motives are poor to say the least . However Back Slash surprisingly has some amusing dialogue which if it were part of a better film , delivered by better actor's could have made for a fun slasher unfortunately it isn't , it wasn't & thus it ain't . The character's aren't as annoying as I expected but since they are stuck in such a poor film it matters little , there's also plenty of Scream ( 1996 ) styled self referential nods towards the horror film genre in general with the entire story based around the making of a horror film & one amusing moment when a character quips ' The Blair Witch Project was a piece of sht yet made 165 million because people thought it was real ' although one line of dialogue is hardly enough to recommend a film . Otherwise it's clichéd teen slasher stuff all the way , the killer is inconsistent as he kills girls with a slash to the back & then removes their liver to start with but then totally abandons that method for no reason , there are some awkward & obvious red herrings ( you know people really do keep freshly decapitated deer heads in boxes in their basements don't they ? ) , stupid plot holes ( would a girl punching someone around the face once really put them in a coma ? ! ) & people don't call the police when they should , I mean wouldn't that CD with the killers voice on it be of interest to the investigating police ? It's a touch on the slow side too , the whole internet angle is poorly handled & amounts to nothing in the end & there are just much better teen slashers out there for anyone to be wasting either their time or money on Black Slash & it's as simple & straight forward as that . Director Campbell was obviously working on a low budget but as I've said many times before & no doubt will many many times more a low budget is no excuse for such a crappy film & I'm not going to forgive both technical & conceptual incompetence purely because of a low budget . It's not scary in the slightest & there are too many annoyingly predictable instances where your supposed to think the killer is on screen yet it turns out to be the actor from the Death Blood film & vice versa where it's supposed to be the actor but it is in fact the killer . There's not much gore , the same liver removing effect is shown a few times , there's a severed penis & a bit of blood but little else to get excited about . There is however a fair amount of female nudity going on if that's your thing . Another low budget horror seemingly shot on a camcorder rather than proper film this looks grubby & cheap as well , I suspect the camcorder was even high definition either . Technically the film is rough & has low production values , I wonder if QuickTime gave the makers permission to use their Windows media player ? Shot in Denver in Colorado . The acting is poor by everyone , the actor's look nice enough but obviously can't act & that spoils what could have been some amusing dialogue . Back Slash is a poor teen slasher & there's no other way I can describe it , the murders are poor , the gore is poor , the acting is poor , the photography is poor & , well you get the message . One to avoid I'm afraid .
Visually quite nice but conceptually awful thriller .	Blood Trails starts as the relationship between lovers Anne ( Rebecca Palmer ) & Michael ( Tom Frederic ) is on the rocks , in one last effort to salvage the relationship they decide to head out to Whistler Mountain Range where they have a cabin & can go mountain biking . One of the reasons why Anne & Michael's relationship is on brink is because Anne had a one night stand with a guy named Chris ( Ben Price ) who claimed to be a cop but is in fact a brutal & sadistic serial killer who has followed Anne & Michael out to the isolated mountain range with the intention of killing them both , can they survive as they use their mountain biking skills to try & find help as Chrissets about his work . . . This German production was co-written & directed by Robert Krause & one has to say that Blood Trails is a rather dull , clichéd & frustrating horror slasher come thriller that has a few positives which are lost amongst the negatives . The script is largely to blame for the films major failings , Anne as a character is really awful & she's one of those dumb horror film heroines who do the most bizarre , unnatural & stupid things . When faced with a brutal killer who has killed two people in front of her Anne decides to ignore the 4x4 Jeep & casually ride her bike away back into the woods instead of getting in the Jeep , running the killer over & heading for safety where she can find proper help . Anne blindly rides along & ends up riding off a cliff & into a river , why ? Then she hits a large tree in the middle of her way which knocks her out , again why ? Couldn't she like just stop & climb over the tree ? Then there's the scene in which she phones for help & the operator tells her to stay where she is so they can track her mobile phone so what does she do ? That's right she leaves . Brilliant . Then there's the notion that in broad daylight Anne can sit against a large wooden cross & not notice that her dead boyfriend is nailed to it for about five minutes . Right . The list goes on . Then there's Chris the killer who can just magically appear anywhere he wants & can instantly find Anne wherever she is in the mountain range . What were those two cops at the end doing there ? How did Chris kill them ? They had their guns pointed at him for God's sake . Why didn't either of those two forest workers not say anything ? Surely if you see a scared , bloodied & upset woman you would at least ask her if she was OK , right ? They don't even talk to each other & it's just a totally bizarre sequence that makes zero sense . The film takes itself extremely seriously but there's not much to it , the mountain biking aspect doesn't amount to anything & the character's are really empty & soulless , there's barely any dialogue & at nearly 90 odd minutes the film drags badly at times with seemingly endless shots of Anne walking , running or riding through the woods which become pretty tedious pretty quickly . There's not that much actual gore here , there's some blood splatter a ridiculous scene involving a slashed throat & a mutilated body is briefly seen . I actually thought the majority of Blood Trails looked terrific , there's some cool camera angles & some strong colour schemes & lighting that showcase some of the isolated wilderness to great effect & the 2 : 35 : 1 widescreen image is used to good effect & the film has an expansive feel but it's off-set by the annoying hand-held shaky camcorder moments & quick editing which gets annoying . It's debatable whether Blood Trails is a horror film or a thriller , it doesn't seem to know what it wants to be & ends up short changing us in both departments . Shot in Austria & Germany the production values are really nice & the film has some style about it but the script is poor , the pace is slow & the kills , character's & narrative are weak . There's only about five people in the entire film , a couple seem dubbed ( badly too ) while leading lady Rebecca Palmer puts in a decent performance with questionable material . Blood Trails is a mix of standard horror slasher & thriller which doesn't really satisfy on either account , in fact despite some nice visuals Blood Trails is pretty forgettable .
Probably the worst episode of the fifth season .	Quincy M . E . : The Winning Edge starts as seventeen year old gymnast Sally Peters ( Shawn Hoskins ) suddenly dies while performing a routine for her coach Virginia Hart ( Caroline Smith ) . Los Angeles coroner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) has to perform the autopsy , at first he sees no reason for Sally to have died but the tox screen show's large amounts of drugs in her system which caused high blood pressure & an aneurysm in her brain to burst . Quincy believes that whoever provided Sally with drugs killed her & starts his investigation by talking to the other girls in Sally's gymnastics class , soon he discovers the shocking truth that Hart has been regularly giving her young students dangerous performance enhancing drugs like they were sweets . . . Episode 17 from season 5 this Quincy story was directed by Georg Fenady & The Winning Edge probably gets my vote as the single worst episode of Quincy's fifth season . I know performance enhancing drugs are bad but we all have choices right ? No-one is forced to take them . I know drugs in general are bad but then any right minded individual knows this anyway & again we have a choice . Yes , that's right The Winning Edge is yet another cautionary tale about the dangers of drugs , this episode certainly doesn't win any points for originality does it ? The whole episode feels very routine , Quincy is barely in it & it takes an amusing subplot about a custom made suit to alleviate the boredom . It turns out that Quincy entered a raffled several month earlier & won third prize , to have a suit custom made by Beverly Hills tailor to the stars Pietro & all the general amusement that causes in the office . Basically if you know that using drugs is bad & wrong then you can you can do yourself a favour & skip The Winning Edge easily enough safe in the knowledge that you haven't missed anything . I must admit this episode worried me a bit , Quincy is seen on his own looking at young schoolgirls in tight fitting leotards performing gymnastics . I am not being being funny but people can jump to the wrong conclusion , I mean a 60 year old guy hanging around scantily clad schoolgirls ? I guarantee you right now that people here in the UK have been investigated by the police & social services for less than that . I guess it's the time we live in but an old guy like Quincy hanging around schoolgirls really would arouse suspicion these days . There are various scenes of young girls performing gymnastics so if that sort of thing impresses you ( the gymnastics , not the young girls . . . ) then you might like this episode . The Winning Edge is a rather lacklustre moralistic tale about the dangers of drugs , it sounds throughly routine & predictable because it is throughly routine & predictable . Not my favourite episode by a long way .
Moralistic Quincy with plot holes galore .	Quincy M . E . : Unhappy Hour starts as two drunk teenager lovers Leonard Miller ( Ross Rhodes ) & Melody Stedman ( Karlene Crockett ) crash their car on a dirt road , both are thrown clear of the wreck & Leonard is killed . The next morning & Dr . Asten ( John S . Ragin ) orders coroner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) to swap jobs with him for a few days to prove a point , the first body on Asten's autopsy table is Leonard & Asten quickly learns that his niece Melody is being blamed for the accident that killed him . Unable to prove conclusively who was driving Asten talks to Melody's friends & discovers that she is an alcoholic while her parents put pressure on him to sweep any findings that may implicate Melody as the driver under the carpet . . . Episode 16 from season 5 this Quincy story was directed by Ray Danton & not only takes the moral high ground has plenty of plot holes . The Quincy production team were obviously keen to promote & raise serious moral & social issues using the flexible format of the show & here they turn their attentions to underage drinking & alcoholism . For what it's worth I agree with the basic stance the production team make & that alcohol is as dangerous as any other addictive drug & merely because it's legal , unlike say heroin , doesn't mean it's safe unless it's used responsibly . Those sentiments are fine & commendable , it's just when the show gets so preachy & heavy handed the entertainment values drop like a lead balloon . Quincy just isn't fun when it's off on one . Unhappy Hour tries to have a mystery element as well since the driver of the car remains a mystery but this subplot is very flawed , at the end of the programme some insurance guy uses a computer to recreate the accident & what happened exactly . I am no expert in law but a theoretical crash devised by a computer would get laughed out of court , there are too many variables that no-one could know . The speed the car was travelling at , the angle it hit the mound of dirt , what initially caused the car to hit the dirt ( did it swerve , was there a mechanical fault , did the driver just lose control ) & the indisputable fact that no computer in the world could definitely work out when the door opened which is the biggest variable of the lot & one crucial to determining what happened & who was driving . Also the crash at the start didn't look anything like the insurance guy's reconstruction either . Unhappy Hour is one of those episodes which ends on a really sombre & downbeat note , if anyone tells you that there is always a happy ending to Quincy then show them this one . Unhappy Hour started off quite promisingly with a decent car crash & a potentially funny subplot as Asten & Quincy exchange jobs for a few days as Asten wants Quincy to know how hard his job actually is but this is quickly dumped & Quincy takes a back seat as Asten is the main focus of the episode . Unfortunately Asten just isn't Quincy & his speech at the end proves that , in fact Quincy is barely in this episode . There's also a bit of a production goof here , when Asten visits his niece Melody in hospital he refers to the accident as being ' last night ' yet at the start of the programme the crash clearly takes place during the day . I would suspect both scenes were filmed well out of sequence which might explain it . The acting is alright but Klugman hardly features in this one & everyone just comes across as , well not as good frankly . Unhappy Hour is far from my favourite Quincy , it's boring , dull & has several plot holes . There are much , much better Quincy episodes out there that you could be watching instead .
Pretty poor crazy backwoods family slasher film with very little to recommend it .	Midnight starts with a brief sacrifice scene , enjoy it while it lasts because we don't get anymore for over an hour . After the credits have run we are introduced to a 17 year girl ( yeah right sure she is ! ) named Nancy Johnson ( Melanie Verlin ) who lives with her fat ugly step Father Bert ( Lawrence Tierney ) a police man & her Mother Harriet ( Doris Hackney ) . One day Bert arrives home drunk & tries to molest Nancy who obviously doesn't like his unwanted amorous paedophile advances & packs her bags intending to hitchhike her way to visit her sister in California . After standing by the side of the road for a while two guys in a van named Hank ( Charles Jackson ) & Tom ( John Hall ) offer her a lift . They say that they're going to Louisberg in Florida & that's she welcome to join them , Nancy jumps at the opportunity & they hit the open road . They stop off in a small town called Kaylor for gas & meet a priest who warns them about the area where several people have been found murdered in the woods , they ignore his warnings & decide to find a place to set up camp for the night . Little do the three realise that a crazy Satan worshipping family are stalking the area looking for suitable sacrifices & decide our trio will do nicely . . . Written & directed by John A . Russo based on his own novel of the same name I personally thought Midnight was a bit of a waste of time & offered little in the way of entertainment value . The script is so dull & slow it virtually grinds to a halt on occasion . The backwoods family & sporadic horror elements aren't properly introduced until after the hour mark , what proceeds is just teenage drama & angst as Nancy runs away from home & goes on a road-trip with Tom & Hank . The script pulls out all the redneck clichés , the townspeople are aggressive , don't like strangers & all drink moonshine while the local police are depicted as heavy handed racists who don't like strangers either . The bad guys are clichéd too , a crazy backwoods family who talk & take orders from one of their dead relatives in this case their Mother , a big fat ugly guy with a beard Cyrus ( David Marchick ) , a young teenage almost innocent looking girl Cynthia ( Robin Walsh ) as well as two ' comedy ' Brothers Luke ( Greg Besnak ) & Abraham ( John Amplas ) . There are few characters in Midnight & none are particularly likable or interesting . I also thought the climax was extremely underwhelming with the hero performing a daring rescue mostly taking place outside the crazy families front door on their porch ! Russo obviously doesn't have a sense for the dramatic because a front porch is hardly the place to hold an exciting conclusion to a film , is it ? The sacrificial alter is nothing more than a dark room with a cross on the wall & a white wooden throne with some burning candles on it , again very little effort seems to have gone into the design & execution of a vital make-or-break scene . It's very stupid at times too , how can a crazy fat farmer walk around in broad daylight with a dead priest over his shoulder & not be noticed ? Would you spend the night in some woods where several murders have taken place ? You know , I don't think I would . One of the reasons I wanted to see Midnight is because of the Tom Savini special make-up effects credit , please don't be fooled like me as there is virtually no blood or gore in Midnight at all . There's an effective bullet through the head shot & a blink & you'll miss it decapitation with a machete , that's it . In fact at one point as a character is having her throat slit Russo freezes the shot for a few seconds so not to have to show any sort of gore , it's almost as if Russo didn't want any blood in Midnight at all . What a wasted opportunity to exploit Savini's excellent skills at make-up effect's . There isn't any nudity either I'm afraid . Technically Midnight is pretty rough , very basic point & shoot photography , the film appears to have been shot in natural light which gives it a dark grimy unpleasant look throughout , it doesn't have much of a musical score instead relying heavily on some of the most awful & out-of-place sounding ' songs ' you can imagine , the acting is below average but I've sat through worse & director Russo fails to create or sustain any periods of atmosphere or tension . Overall I can't really say anything good about Midnight apart from the fact that Tom Savini provided a couple of cool gore effects & the last 30 odd minutes picks up somewhat , at least it kept me from falling asleep which I was threatening to do at that point . Don't waste your time as there are much better horror films out there to be seen , when all said & done Midnight was very disappointing .
Not what it sounds like .	Quincy M . E . : The Night Killer starts one night as accountant Bill Estes ( Robert Ginty ) arrives home to discover Benjamin one of his five month old baby twins dead in his crib while his wife Madeline ( Tyne Daly ) is asleep in the bedroom . All the signs & indications point to crib death or sudden infant death syndrome ( SIDS for short ) as it's known , with Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) in court for the morning a young up & coming pathologist named Bab Gage ( Jonathan Segal ) takes it upon himself to perform the autopsy & is horrified to see evidence of Benjamin having been battered to death . When Quincy gets back from court he is enraged to find out that Gage has already involved the police & Lt . Monahan ( Garry Walberg ) before performing a proper autopsy which proves that Benjamins injuries were sustained post mortem , or after death . Quincy sets out to do all he can to help Bill & Madeline get over the devastating loss of a child . . . Episode 4 from season 6 this Quincy story was directed by Jeffrey Hayden & one has to say that you can maybe trace the demise of the once brilliant crime detective series Quincy down to this very episode . The first five seasons of Quincy were highly enjoyable apart from a few misfires here & there with a great mix if crime drama , murder mystery , race against time scenarios , some great supporting character's , a real sense of humour & a wide variety of story lines that at times got a little heavy handed & preachy but were generally entertaining . Season six is where all that started to disappear & it all started to go wrong , season six is when the wholly moralistic story lines started to take over & the successful murder mystery style plots were abandoned , while busy trying to make some sort of social statement or highlight some official or bureaucratic inadequacy the production team for me lost what made me fall in love with the show in the first place . I happen to think that The Night Killer is the first of the extremely heavy handed , sombre & moralistically charged episode , the fact that it's an episode of Quincy seems irrelevant & there's no humour , no murder , no crime , no mystery , no intrigue & the story feels like it happens in spite & around Quincy rather than because of him & his persistent quest for the truth & justice . Here the production team decide to tackle the mysterious phenomenon of crib death ( or cot death as it's known here in the UK ) & the effect it has on the family & it's a really heavy issue that I don't think will be particularly entertaining to anyone . I don't like the moralistic episodes & I definitely don't like this . As far as I am concerned The Night Killer marked the start of the end for Quincy as a show & it pains me to say that since there are so many episode that I enjoy . When I saw that this episode was called The Night Killer I was looking forward to a good murder mystery in which Quincy has to help track down a serial killer or something along those lines but the thirty second preview before the opening credits dashed my hopes & I knew I was in for a long fifty odd minutes as the title turned out to be more metaphorical than literal . Tyne Daly of Cagney & Lacey ( 1982 - 1988 ) fame , she was Lacey by the way , makes the first of her three guest appearances on Quincy while Robert Ginty makes the first of his two although beating them both is Jonathan Segal who appeared in six different Quincy episodes . As usual Klugman puts in a great performance & is probably the sole highlight of this episode . The Night Killer is the beginning of the end of Quincy , the show would continue to go down the social issue route & gradually abandon more & more of what made the show so great to start with . All I will say is if it isn't broke why fix it ? It's no surprise that the show didn't last too long after the production team tried to ' fix it ' is it ?
" Beware of the Blob , it creeps & leaps & glides & slides across the floor right through the door " Rubbishy 50's Sci-Fi horror .	The Blob starts with one of the most bizarre theme songs ever , sung by an uncredited Burt Bacharach of all people ! You really have to hear it to believe it , The Blob may be worth watching just for this song alone & my user comment summary is just a little taste of the classy lyrics . . . After this unnerving opening credits sequence The Blob introduces us , the viewer that is , to Steve Andrews ( Steve McQueen as Steven McQueen ) & his girlfriend Jane Martin ( Aneta Corsaut ) who are parked on their own somewhere & witness what looks like a meteorite falling to Earth in nearby woods . An old man ( Olin Howland as Olin Howlin ) who lives in a cabin also sees it & goes to investigate , he finds a crater & a strange football sized rock which splits open when he unwisely pokes it with a stick . Laying in the centre of the meteorite is a strange jelly like substance which sticks to the stick , if you know what I mean ! It then slides up the stick & attachés itself to the old man's hand . Meanwhile Steve & Jane are quietly driving along minding their own business when the old man runs out in front of Steve's car , Steve being a decent kinda guy decides to take the old man to Dr . T . Hallan ( Alden ' Stephen ' Chase as Steven Chase ) at the local surgery . Dr . Hallan says he doesn't know what the substance on the old man's hand is but it's getting bigger & asks Steve to go back where he found him & see if he can find out what happened . Steve agrees but doesn't come up with anything & upon returning to Dr . Hallan's surgery he witnesses the blob devouring him . The town's police , Lieutenant Dave ( Earl Rowe ) & the teenage hating Sergeant Jim Bert ( John Benson ) unsurprisingly don't believe a word of it & end up suspecting Steve & his mates Al ( Anthony Franke ) , Tony ( Robert Fields ) & someone called ' Mooch ' Miller ( James Bonnet ) of playing an elaborate practical joke on the police department . However as the blob continues to eat it's way through the town Steve sets about finding proof of it's existence & convincing the police about the threat it posses not just to their town but the entire world ! Directed Irvin S . Yeaworth Jr . & an uncredited Russell S . Doughton Jr . I was throughly disappointed by this , the original 1958 version of The Blob . The script by Kay Linaker as Kate Phillips & Theodore Simonson is an absolute bore & extremely dull not making the most of it's strongest aspects . The Blob focuses on the tiresome dramatics & conflicts between the teenagers & police , in fact the majority of The Blob is spent on Steve trying to convince the police of the blob's existence . For most of the film the blob itself almost seems inconsequential & somewhat forgotten . It only has two or three scenes for the fist hour & a bit until the less than exciting climax when the adults & teenagers have to work together to defeat the blob & have a new found appreciation of each other afterwards , yuck ! Why couldn't the blob just eat the lot of ' em ? No explanation is given for what the blob is or it's origins other than it came from space , how long did it take them to come up with that ? The dialogue is clunky & silly as well , as are people's actions & decision making , I love the part when a nurse named Kate ( Lee Paton as Lee Payton , did anyone use their real name in this thing ? ) is confronted by the blob , she throws some acid over it & calmly proclaims " Doctor , nothing will stop it ! " , how does she know ' nothing ' will stop it exactly ? There's no blood or violence so don't worry about that , the special effects on the blob itself aren't too bad considering but it barely has any screen time & moves very slowly , a bit like the film in general actually . The acting is terrible , McQueen is supposed to be a teenager when in reality he was 28 years old & it shows , he looks old enough to be his own dad ! Same thing goes for most of the other ' teenage ' cast members & everyone generally speaking are wooden & unconvincing in their roles . Technically The Blob is very basic , dark static photography , dull direction & forgettable production values . The Blob is one of those films that probably sounds good on paper & is well known as being a ' classic ' but is in actual fact a huge disappointment when finally seen . This is one case when the remake The Blob ( 1988 ) is definitely better than the original . The original Blob is slow & boring & the remake isn't , the original Blob contains no blood or gore & the remake does , the original Blob has incredibly poor acting & casting decisions & the remake doesn't & the original Blob itself gets very little screen time eating only three or four people throughout the entire film & the remake features the blob all the way through & it virtually eats an entire town . The choice is an easy one , the remake every time as it's a better film in every respect . I'll give the film two stars & give that wonderful main theme song one on it's own . Definitely not the classic many seem to make out .
" Suicide attempts don't count , especially failed ones . " Pretty bad .	Goth starts as two wannabe Goth's Chrissy ( Laura Reilly ) & her boyfriend Boone ( Dave Stan ) arrive at a goth nightclub somewhere in Los Angeles & start dancing to some absolutely horrendous ' music ' , while waiting to use the toilet Chrissy bumps into a girl named Gothe ( Phoebe Dollar ) who says if she & her boyfriend meet her out back she can let them have some drugs for nowt , obviously too good an opportunity to turn down it's not long before all three are indulging in a drug Gothe calls ' White Light ' . But it doesn't end there because Gothe is in fact some twisted messed up psycho who likes to terrorise , torture & kill people & she has decided to take Chrissy & Bone along for her latest night of fun . . . Written & directed by Brad Sykes I don't really know what to say about Goth , I mean there's very little here by which to get excited about & it's a bit of a chore to sit through . The script which seems to take itself extremely seriously at least moves along at a reasonable pace & to it's credit it wasn't that boring but when the story , the character's & the dialogue are all so tedious & lame it sort of cancels it out . For a start no explanation was given for Gothe's motives , none other than she was a true goth which I would imagine could upset real life Goth's who wouldn't like being portrayed as vicious killers . The character's of Chrissy & Boone are terrible , they spend virtually the entire film discussing how to get away from Gothe yet do nothing , I mean Gothe is just a skinny girl surely both Chrissy & Boone could have overpowered her ? Then there's the frankly ridiculous twist which is somehow supposed to connect Gothe & Chrissy but again this makes no sense if you think about it as Chrissy could have done what she was planning to a long time ago & saved us from having to sit through this which would have killed two birds with one stone . The set pieces & exploitation scenes are poor , it never really entertains or even amuses & then there's the mysterious van driver that we never see whose only purpose in life it seems is to wait in Gothe's van & drive her around wherever she wants to go . Director Sykes is renowned for ultra low budget horror film junk like this & Goth doesn't exactly enhance his reputation , there's no style to the thing at all & Goth is the only film that has ever had me reach for the mute button on my remote control within the first 5 minutes as the opening scenes in the nightclub feature a truly horrible song that literally was giving me a headache so I had to turn the sound off until it stopped . The gore isn't anything special , there'some cutting of skin , there's a slit throat & a few stabbings but nothing to write home about . There's some nudity including some overweight women which frankly looks hideous & is far more scary & disturbing than anything else seen in Goth . Goth probably had a budget that wouldn't stretch to a round of drinks down your local & it shows , the camera work is terrible & it was obviously shot on horrible grainy video , the lighting is poor & the production design consists of the back of Gothe's van & a few seedy hotel rooms . The music is grating & even the costumes seem flat & dull . The acting isn't going to win anyone any awards , Reilly & Stan are both awful although Dollar isn't too bad as the villain . Goth is the sort of film you don't really watch you just endure it , the positive thing I can say is that it keeps moving but when everything else is so bad it hardly matters . Not recommended .
Starts good , ends crap . . .	Haute Tension , or either High Tension or Switchblade Romance as it's know to English speaking audiences , starts as two college friends Marie ( Cecile De France ) & Alexia ( Maiwenn Le Besco ) head to Alexia's parents house for the weekend . Marie is given the uppermost room in the large house & that night sees an old rusty van pull up outside & the guy inside gets out & rings the doorbell , Alexia's Father Daniel ( Andrei Finti ) answers the door & is brutally murdered . The killer then systematically slaughter's everyone else in the house except Marie who manages to hide & Alexia who the killer ties up & locks in the back of his van , however before he can drive off Marie sneaks into the van with the intention of saving Alexia before she becomes his next victim . . . This French production was co-written & directed by Alexandre Aja & for the first 70 odd minutes Haute Tension is a top horror film but then Aja & co-writer Gregory Levasseur decide to ruin it by throwing in what must be the second worst twist ending I've ever seen , I mean what on Earth were they thinking ? For those interested Breaking Dawn ( 2004 ) still has the worst twist I've seen though . The film starts out very promising with a scene of someone using a decapitated head to sexually please themselves & the wonderfully staged massacre of Alexia's family along with the ensuing cat & mouse game between Marie & the killer as in a way the tradition slasher film roles are reversed as Marie has to stalk him to an extent in an attempt to save her friend . I was really enjoying Haute Tension & thought it was quite fresh & very effective , at this point the film was on for an from me but then that ending spoiled it big time & frankly I think I'm being generous by still giving it a 4 . Basically the truly awful twist killed the entire film for me , I thought it ruined everything that had gone before & turned what was up to that point a nice exercise in savage cinema into a complete mess . Haute Tension uses the same split personality twist used so effectively in the brilliant Fight Club ( 1999 ) although here it feels like an afterthought & makes absolutely no sense within the context of the rest of the film , how can someone have a fight with themselves ? Where did the old van come from when Marie & Alexia clearly drive together in a Citreon ? Why kill the gas station attendant ? In fact almost everything that has gone before in Haute Tension seems like a contradiction , the scene at the start with the killer & decapitated head now is totally meaningless & the filmmakers just don't get the whole point-of-view thing & it just doesn't work with the rest of the film . Neither was I convinced by the killers motives , oh that's right they aren't really given any so that's probably why . . . Director Aja does a great job with the violence , the tension , atmosphere & it's a pretty stylish film all round . It's a very tense film with some great sequences but what's the point with that ending where everything good the film had managed to build up is lost , honestly . Like a lot of these muddled ' cult ' type films there are plenty of internet message board activity about the ending with lots of people trying to explain in minute detail everything , personally I think life is too short to worry about a stupid nonsensical film such as Haute Tension , there are better things to do . To it's credit there's some top gore here , there's one of the best slit throats your likely to see , there's a decapitation , a severed hand , someone is sliced up with a cement saw , someone is axed to death & there are large helpings of blood splattered all over the shop . With a supposed budget of about $430 , 000 the makers of Haute Tension didn't have much to work with & they do wonders , to it's credit it's very well made with a definite slickness , it's just a shame about the end . Shot in French it's hard to know how everyone acts but they all seem to scream & cry in the right places so I'll assume it's decent . Haute Tension is top-notch for 70 odd minutes & complete total & utter crap for the remaining 20 odd that ruins everything that has gone before , a real disappointment considering how well it had started . It's a difficult one to call as I'm sure there are people out there who will love it but overall it's not a film I look back on with any fondness apart from one of the coolest slit throats in cinematic history , the choice is yours .
Forgettable episode .	Werewolf : Blood on the Tracks starts as drifter Eric Cord ( John J . York ) follows a train track into a small town where he finds a job working on the railroad . While there Eric meets his boyhood hero ex-professional heavyweight boxer ' Sweet ' Jake Williams ( Everett McGill ) who is in hiding with his wife Louise & young daughter Linda ( T . J . Wornalla ) from the mob who wants him dead after he refused to throw a fight . Eric gets into a barroom fight with a guy named Dil ( Tyler Tyhurst ) & Jake comes to Eric's rescue , however Dil goes to the local police & the fight attracts the wrong sort of attention as the mob soon turns up & starts looking for Jake . Together Eric & Jake decide to stay & fight . . . Episode fifteen from the first & only season of Werewolf this originally aired in the US during November 1987 , directed by Rob Bowman ( who went on to direct The X-Files ( 1998 ) film & over thirty episodes from The X-Files ( 1994 - 2000 ) telly series ) this is probably one of my least favourite episodes from the series so far , there really is very little to recommend here as far as I am concerned . The whole boxer on the run from the mob after refusing to fix a fight plot is a well used one & was maybe most famously used in Daredevil ( 2003 ) as the reason why Matt Murdock decides to become a superhero . It's not a very captivating or particularly interesting storyline & what's worse is that it has no supernatural overtones at all apart from the rather predictable ending where Eric turns into a Werewolf & sorts Jake's problem out for him . Also this type of episode is starting to become a bit routine , the sort of episode where Eric meets some stranger on his travels who then pours their heart out to him & in some way or another Eric uses his Werewolf abilities to solve said strangers problems . The main problem with Blood on the Tracks is that basic central story revolving around a boxer is utterly forgettable , dull & not really suited to a horror themed series such as Werewolf . Neither regular character's Skorzeny or bounty hunter Rogan appear in Blood on the Tracks & as such this is one of those stand alone episodes which doesn't really move the overall story of the series as a whole along . There's not really much Werewolf action here , the Werewolf appears without any transformation scene & claws a guy's throat in one of the bloodier scenes from the show & then kills another off screen which amounts to about two minutes . The rest of this episode is spent on rather dull exposition that you will probably have forgotten by the time the end credits have finished . Lead guest star Everett McGill went on to star in the Twin Peaks ( 1990 - 1991 ) TV series . Blood on the Tracks is one of the most forgettable , routine & uninspiring Werewolf episodes . I didn't really like this one at all I'm afraid , definitely one you could skip & not really miss anything important or stimulating .
Werewolf turns into a soap opera .	Werewolf : A World of Difference : Part 2 starts as bounty hunter Alamo Joe Rogan ( Lance LeGault ) lies in a hospital bed awaiting the results of ultrasound tests that will determine whether he was bitten by the Werewolf or merely scratched , the difference being that if Rogan has been bit he too will have the Werewolf curse . Meanwhile at the morgue Eric's body goes missing . . . Episode twelve from the first & only season of Werewolf this originally aired in the US during October 1987 , directed by James Darren this one feels like it's going into bland soap opera territory . This episode revolves entirely around bounty hunter Rogan , like the first part of this story there's lots of flashbacks as Rogan contemplates his situation & things that have happened . He recalls having discussions with his wife which is where the slight soap opera feel comes in , his boss & an expert on Wolves which gives the production team the chance to throw in lots of facts about real life Wolves , how they live & other little titbit's . There's not a whole lot here to get excited about , rather uniquely Eric as a human does not feature in this episode at all except briefly at the start when he is seen dead at the morgue & as such this is the only episode where Eric doesn't have any dialogue or significantly effect the outcome of the episode . This is well made as usual with some effective nighttime sequences although this is very short on action , in fact once the Werewolf breaks out of the morgue it just disappears . Since this episode focuses on Rogan , his character & his motivations you would ideally need have seen some of the earlier episodes to fully know what's going on & it pretty much finishes as it starts with Eric on the run still a Werewolf & bounty hunter Rogan still trying to capture & kill him , you could probably skip this two parter & you wouldn't be missing anything significant . A World of Difference : Part 2 isn't that great & has little to recommend it , it's worth a watch for fans of the show but as a stand alone episode it's one of the worst without even any decent Werewolf action .
OK ultra low budget horror film , but not as good as some make out .	Dr . Julius Lifflander ( Bill Freeman ) has just left his house and is walking down his garden path when he hears noises coming from some nearby bushes . He returns to his house and locks himself in . The phone lines are cut . He is then killed by someone or something with a grotesquely disfigured hand . Duane Bradley ( Kevin Van Hentenryck ) walks through the streets of New York City holding tightly on to a wicker basket past drug dealers and porno cinemas ( is this what Times Square really used to be like ? ) , he comes across and decides to stay at a cheap ' n ' nasty , low rent , flea pit of a hotel in Times Square called the Broslin . He tells the Broslin's manager ( Robert Vogel ) that he wants to rent a room for an indefinite period of time , he is given room No . 7 . The next day Duane visits a seedy and inept doctor named Harold Needleman ( Lloyd Pace ) , while there Duane and Dr . Needleman's receptionist , Sharon ( Terri Susan Smith ) arrange to meet up and for her to show him some of New Yorks sights . That night Needleman is killed by Belial , Duanes deformed freakish Siamese twin who Duane carries around in his wicker basket and has a psychic link with . It seems that Duane and Belial were born joined together at Duanes waist , in upstate New York Glens falls . Their mother died giving birth , which left their father ( Richard Pierce ) a little bitter and resentful towards Belial . On Duane's and Belial's twelfth birthday their father hires three unscrupulous doctors , Lifflander , Needleman and a female doctor named Judith Kutter ( Diana Browne ) who perform the surgery to separate the twins . Belial takes revenge on his father by cutting him in half with a buzz saw . Their loving aunt ( Ruth Neuman ) looks after them both from this point onwards , but after she dies Belial convinces Duane to travel to Manhattan and gain revenge on the doctors that separated them . Thing get even more complicated when Duane falls in love with Sharon , a situation Belial is far from happy about . Belial is one mad twisted freak who wants revenge at any cost ! Edited , written and directed by Frank Henenlotter I thought this was average at best . The low budget really hinders it , everything just looks so cheap . To Henenlotter's credit though he seems to have had lots of enthusiasm for the film and makes the most out of what he had , which probably equalled more or less nothing . The acting is atrocious , the romantic scenes between Van Hentenryck and Susan Smith are embarrassingly badly written and performed especially the one set in front of the Statue of Liberty . The only cast member who comes away with any credit is Vogel as the sleazy Broslin's overworked and underpaid manager , he's really funny and steals every scene he's in . The pacing is a little off , as is the dialogue sometimes which doesn't do the film any favours . And what's with Belial's glowing red eyes at the end ? The gore is OK , mostly just splashes of blood but the sequence where Belial and Duane are separated is quite explicit and there is a fun scene as someone gets a face full of scalpels . There is some stop motion animation for Belial that looks absolutely terrible , some of the worse I've ever seen ! The sleazy 80's New York setting is a little underused in my opinion , apart from the opening when Duane walks through Times Square at night , the Statue of Liberty scene and one or two other little shots here and there you wouldn't really be able to tell where this was set . Worth a watch for horror fans to be sure , but just don't go in expecting the classic many seem to make out .
John's got a half brother . Half brother , half something else . Below average late 80's ' mad scientist ' horror film , pretty bad actually .	The Kindred opens to shots of a Porsche racing along a highway , it catches up with an old pick-up truck and gets held up . As it speeds past the pick-up the driver ( Benjamin J . Perry as Ben Perry ) shouts obscenities and honks his horn . Distracted he doesn't notice an obstruction ahead and crashes his Porsche . He is quickly freed from the wreckage and is taken to hospital . On the way the Paramedic ( Randy Harrington ) trying to save him suggests that he probably won't make it . Then the Ambulance is attacked and forced off the road by a van . The driver of the van , Jackson ( Jim Boeke as James F . Boeke ) beats the Paramedic up and steals the patient . The Ambulance driver , Harry ( Charles Grueber ) makes no attempt to stop him . Once the injured man has been placed into the van Jackson turns his attention to Harry whom seem to know each other . Harry asks Jackson not to hit him because he broke his jaw ' last time ' . Jackson punches Harry to the floor and throws a bundle of money at him . The film then makes it perfectly clear we are in San Fransisco by showing a shot of the Golden Gate Bridge . Sharon Raymond is woken up by a phone call for her boyfriend Dr . John Hollins ( David Allen Brooks ) to inform him that his Mother , Amanda ( Kim Hunter ) who has recently had a heart attack has regained consciousness . Hollins works for a company called the ' Geneticell Corporation ' and is delighted at the news and heads off to see her . Once there she asks him to go back to his old childhood house in a small town called Shelter Cove and destroy all of her notes and experiments , especially the ' Anthony journals ' which Hollins has never heard of , she also claims that he has a brother named Anthony . Back at Geneticell , Hollins talks with a Dr . Phillip Lloyd ( Rod Steiger ) about his Mother as they had both worked together before they had a falling out with each other , and questions him about her research and if he knows of anyone called Anthony . He claims he knows nothing . When Amanda dies after a visit from the sinister Dr . Lloyd , Hollins decides to carry out his Mothers request and try to find out who Anthony is . While paying his final respects at the funeral a woman named Melissa Leftridge ( Amanda Pays ) introduces herself to Hollins and says she was a big admirer of his Mothers work and research after she helped her . Because Melissa seems to know so much about his Mothers work he invites her to the house as she may possibly be able to help find some answers to various questions he has . Hollins , Sharon , Melissa and three lab assistants , Brad Baxter ( Peter Frechette ) , Hart Phillips ( Timothy Gibbs ) and Cindy Russell ( Julia Montgomery ) plus a girl with a watermelon ( ! ) named Nell Valentine ( Bunki Z , great name what were her parents thinking ! ? ) . They get down to business straight away but find little of any interest . For some reason no one at this point thinks to look in the basement , which is just as well as there's something down there , something large , slimy and has lots of tentacles . First it kills Duke , the dog . Then it moves on to larger prey . When Hart is attacked by something in a barn Hollins decides he must destroy all traces of his Mothers work and whatever Anthony is . Jointly co-written and directed by Stepehn Carpenter and Jeffery Obrow , Carpenter also acted as cinematographer and Obrow as producer . This is a pretty poor film in my opinion . The script is credited to five ( ! ) writers , Carpenter , Obrow , Earl Ghaffari , John Penny and Joseph Stefano and with five people working on it I'd like to think they could come up with something a little bit better and more coherent than this . Nothing is explained that well , why did Amanda create these monstrous sea creature / human hybrids ? What is Dr . Lloyd's interest and his motives ? Why does he steal bodies from the back of Ambulance's ? Why does he have a basement full of mutants ? Why do none of these so-called genetic scientists think to check the basement out ? Could Melissa act more suspiciously even if she tried ? Why are none of the characters given any background ? Why do people keep mentioning a substance found in sea creatures called Hemocynine when 99 . 9 % of the audience isn't going to have clue what their on about ? There is also a serious lack of blood and gore , only one person dies on screen , just one ! And all the scientists survive in a vomit inducingly mushy ' happy ending ' . This is a horror film guys , all we want to see is the slimy monsters kill and eat people in various gory ways . The one on screen death is actually quite cool , someone has slimy tentacles inserted under their skin , in their ear and up their nose in the films only decent horror sequence . To try and up the gore quotent there is a scene where Dr . Lloyd is experimenting on a skinned animal but it only lasts for a few seconds , and in the context of the rest of the film doesn't mean a thing . Melissa also turns into a fish , don't ask . There's no nudity either , which isn't a surprise . The film looks professional enough with decent production values but is just so dull and plods along at a snails pace , we don't even get to see the giant monster in the basement until 15 odd minutes before the end which is far too little far too late , when it does make an appearance the effects are OK and that makes it even more of a shame that it wasn't used more . Overall I was very disappointed and I was expecting a lot better . A horror film with only one on screen death and only three in total , what's the world coming too ?
Didn't do much for me at all .	X2 starts as an attempt is made on the US President's ( Cotter Smith ) life in the Oval office by a teleporting mutant called Nightcrawler ( Alan Cumming ) , the President sees this as an act of aggression on the part of all mutants & orders Willaim Stryker ( Bran Cox ) a military General to tighten up on mutant security . However it is in fact Stryker who was responsible for the attack & with the President's authority as well as some forged documents he sets out on his own personal crusade to rid the entire world of mutants , Stryker learns from Magneto ( Ian McKellen ) that Charles Xavier ( Patrick Stewart ) runs a school for mutants & the existence of the Cerebro machine in which Xavier can telepathically communicate with any living creature on the planet . Stryker intends to force Xavier to make contact with every mutant on Earth & telepathically kill them all . . . Directed by Bryan Singer who also has a small cameo in the film as one of the security men in Magneto's plastic prison this was the sequel to the original X-Men ( 2000 ) film the huge financial success of which pretty much got the whole Marvel superhero comic book adaptation thing going with such large box-office returns , the likes of Spider-Man ( 2002 ) , Daredevil ( 2003 ) , Hulk ( 2003 ) , Elektra ( 2005 ) , Fantastic Four ( 2005 ) , Ghosr Rider ( 2007 ) , the Blade trilogy & Iron Man ( 2008 ) duly followed to cash in on the cinema going publics craze for these superhero flicks . To be brutally honest I've never really been that impressed with the genre with the notable exceptions being the excellent Blade films & the fun Spider-Man flicks & the silly titled X2 ( why not X-Men 2 ? ) does nothing to change my overall opinion . I think one factor is these larger than life superhero character's with all manner of odd abilities were designed for a 2-D comic book rather than a 3-D film & with a few expectations they look better as a comic strip than a live action character , the basic mechanics & demands of a full length feature film are just very different than a simple comic strip . The script by Michael Dougherty , Dan Harris & David Hayter is really weak , the character's are poor & lets not forget that not everyone will have read the comics or seen the original film , the story is also very poor . It feels very slow & pedestrian , most of it takes place between mutants in imaginary settings & therefore I found it very hard to think of the film taking place in reality . I know it's pure sci-fi but for it to work it needs to be grounded in some sort of recognisable reality otherwise where's the threat coming from ? Also the X-Men themselves are too powerful , between them they can do just about anything including Wolverine who can get shot on the head yet heal himself . You just always felt they would be able to overcome any situation they find themselves in & it just kills any excitement or tension . At well over two hours X2 feels like it goes on forever , there aren't that many memorable set-pieces & as a whole I think X2 is one of the poorer Marvel superhero comic book films . Director Singer does alright but there's not much here that really stands out , there are a few forgettable fights , some exploding cop cars , a bust dam spewing water & a few flashy CGI computer effects . In fact I was quite surprised at how bland & routine feeling the action scenes were considering the budget . I also didn't like the way this was filmed , the scene at the end when Xavier & the rest of the X-Men turn up in the President's office with lightening flashing outside is truly embarrassing . I suspect that it was meant to be sinister & atmospheric but I just thought it looked awful & over dramatic . The special effects are generally very good but like most CGI computer effects you just ' know ' what your watching is an effect . With a supposed budget of about $110 , 000 , 000 one has to say X2 is well made with high production values & that big budget Hollywood look & feel to it . I personally thought the acting was awful , the scenes at the end as they mourn Jean Grey are embarrassing , the shots around the camp fire as Magneto fills the rest of the X-Men in on Stryker's plans & they all try to look worried & concerned is another cringe worthy moment as is Rouge's ' scared ' reaction when she lands the jet plane at the end . Hugh Jackman can't act , Halle Berry can't act ( how did she ever win an Oscar ? ) although she does look good in tight leather & even great actors like Ian McKellen & Patrick Stewart seem off colour . X2 was a big disappointment to me , I was expecting lots of action & great effects but what I ended up with was a passable superhero comic book adaptation & nothing more . The story is very weak , the character's are weak & the action is forgettable . Followed by X-Men : The Last Stand ( 2006 ) .
Not that good .	Red Dawn starts like any other day in a small Colorado town , however the normal tranquillity is soon shattered when Russian soldiers parachute out of the sky & start killing everyone . In a systematic coordinated attack right across America starting in Mexico allied Soviet & Cuban forces have invaded the US & World War III has begun . Brother's Jed ( Patrick Swayze ) & Matt Eckert ( Charlie Sheen ) along with several of their high school buddies manage to escape the initial invasion & make it to the relative safety of the Colorado mountains . With no option but to fight the teenagers take arms & wage their own personal war against the Soviet Cuban scum who have invaded their homeland & killed innocent Americans . . . Co-written & directed by avid gun collector & pro-gun activist John Milius one has to say that I really didn't think too much of this overly sentimental teenage action film . The script by Milius & Kevin Reynolds takes itself deadly seriously & is very pro the right to bear arms all the way , it says that the right of each American to own a gun is good because America is the land of the free & in the event of an attack by the Russians or any other evil superpower individual Americans will be able to defend themselves . I suppose Red Dawn tries to tap into the fears people had at the time , fears about Cummunism , about Russia , about World War III , about nuclear warfare , about increasing legislation in owning a gun which Red Dawn repeatedly says owning a gun is every American's God given right & the whole survivalist movement . The character's aren't great , there's the clichéd action film theme of ordinary people being thrust into an extraordinary situation & having to toughen-up & overcome the odds , you know the sort of thing I mean . Nothing really works that well , while watching it last night I just thought it was a collection of seemingly random incidents stringed together & you never get to know any of the character's , in fact I couldn't really name them now as I couldn't really tell them apart . The film never leaves the confines of the Colorado town either & I for one never really felt like the whole of the US was at war . At almost two hours it felt like it went on forever , the action isn't anything special & it's hard to believe a group of teenagers could take on & defeat a heavily armed platoon of highly trained soldiers . I read somewhere once that someone thought Red Dawn resembled The Goonies ( 1985 ) but with guns & rocket launchers which I think is actually quite an apt description . Director Milius nails his allegiances down here , there are some really nauseating scenes of gross patriotism which I found rather laughable . The scene of the teenagers listening to the radio & the American national anthem comes on to keep the nations spirits up is just so forced & cheap it's untrue . Red Dawn was the very first film released with a PG-13 rating in the states , The Flamingo Kid ( 1984 ) was actually the first film to be given a PG-13 but Red Dawn ended up being released before it . There is a fairly high body count & a fair amount of blood too although it's not that graphic it is quite violent & whether Red Dawn would still get a PG-13 today is debatable . Amazingly the term ' Red Dawn ' was the given code name for the military operation in Iraq that captured Saddam Hussein back in 2003 ! The film is well made with decent production values , the military vehicles & the like look very authentic I suppose & the New Mexico location shooting has some nice scenery . There are several sizable parts of the film which are subtitled . The acting is in my opinion very poor , the likes of Patrick Swayze , Charlie Sheen in his film debut , C . Thomas Howell , Lea Thompson , Harry Dean Stanton & Powers Boothe are capable of much better than this & some of the performances are truly dire . Red Dawn is not a film that I can say I liked , it's pro-war pro-gun patriotic nonsense that has dated very badly & is a bit of a chore to sit through in one sitting . Apparently set to be remade as Red Dawn ( 2010 ) .
" The best place to hide something is where everyone can see it . " Not that good .	Sherlock Holmes and the Secret Weapon starts in Switzerland as the world's foremost detective Sherlock Holmes ( Basil Rathbone ) outwits the Nazi's & manages to smuggle a brilliant scientist named Dr . Franz Tobel ( William Post Jr . ) out of the country & to the relative safety of London . But is London as safe as Holmes thinks ? Dr . Tobel has engineered a revolutionary new bomb sight that will change aerial bombardment forever & he has agreed to give it to the British government , but those Nazi's want it just as badly & Holmes arch enemy Professor Moriarty ( Lionel Atwill ) plans on stealing the secret of the bomb sight & selling it to the Nazi's . Add the bumbling Inspector Lestrade ( Denis Hoey ) of Scotland Yard , Dr . Tobel's love interest Charlotte Eberli ( Kaaren Verne ) , assassins , mysterious scientists & a puzzling coded message & Holmes has his work cut out to keep Dr . Tobel alive so he can deliver his bomb sight . . . Directed by Roy William Neill Sherlock Holmes and the Secret Weapon was the fourth in a series of fourteen Holmes films made between 1939 & 1946 to feature Rathbone & Bruce as Holmes & Watson . The script by Edward T . Lowe Jr . , Scott Darling & Edmund L . Hartmann is based on the short ' The Dancing Men ' by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle & isn't the tradition Holmes murder mystery as it's more of a wartime adventure story . To neglect what Holmes is all about , the solving of complex crimes & mysteries is a big mistake as far as I'm concerned & the involvement of the Nazi's & the war as a backdrop to the story feels out of place , awkward & just didn't sit too well with me . The dialogue isn't great , Professor Moriarty feels almost like an afterthought as if they couldn't come up with a villain for it & as a whole it's far less engaging than other's in the series . However , at least it's short . Director Neill does his usual efficient job but you have to cut it a little slack & bear in mind that it was made over 60 years ago . It has no real style or imagination & lacks both atmosphere & intrigue as well . Technically the film is OK if unspectacular , the black and white cinematography is fine although I understand that a computer colourised version is also available . The acting is alright , Bruce & Hoey do their usual comic relief turns & Rathbone's hairstyle in this looks ridiculous & I'm glad he changed it for later instalments . Sherlock Holmes and the Secret Weapon was a disappointment when compared to some of the other excellent entries in the series , there is very little by which I can recommend it & everything that made the other's so good seems to be missing here . Leave this one till last & watch some of the better ones first , for die hard fans only .
Bad sci-fi nonsense .	Neon City is set in a post apocalyptic future during the year 2053 A . D . where ex-law enforcement ranger Harry M . Stark ( Michael Ironside ) roams the wastelands in search of human bounty like escaped or wanted criminals on the run which he brings in & collects money for . His latest capture is a woman named Reno ( Vanity ( ? ! ) ) who he takes to the nearest ' civilised ' city , Jehricho . Unfortunately she's hot property & needs to be taken to the larger Neon City for trial & since Jericho are low on man power it's up to Stark to get her there if he wants his money . Meanwhile several people are boarding a large truck which will take them across the rough & dangerous terrains of the wastelands to Neon City as is the only way to get there , along with several other passengers on board is the daughter of a top ranking official in Neon City & Stark is forced to travel with them to protect her since he was the ' best ' before he went renegade . As they try to reach Neon City they have to deal with mutants , cannibal tribes , freak whether phenomenon & the fact that there is a murderer among their number . . . Co-written & directed by Monte Markham I personally thought Neon City was a pretty lacklustre post apocalyptic sci-fi adventure . The script by Markham , Jeff Begun , Buck Finch & Gus Peters is basically a rip-off of the classic western Stagecoach ( 1939 ) & takes it's plot & transports it into the future . However that's where the similarities end I'm afraid as Neon City has dull & unexciting action scenes , clichéd & forgettable character's especially the main leads & sub-plots which seem to go nowhere & serve only to stretch the things running time out even more . I found it to be a touch on the slow side with not much happening & average at best action scenes to punctuate the boredom & it takes itself far too seriously . The ending was also a disappointment & it's almost as if the filmmakers didn't know what they wanted to do & just wrapped things up as quickly as they could . The world depicted in Neon City is your typical post apocalyptic vision with wastelands full of mutants & gangs , little law & order , the daily struggles to find water & food & life threatening whether conditions . Mad Max ( 1979 ) was doing all that sort of thing much better over a decade before Neon City , in fact besides stealing most of it's best ideas from Stagecoach & Mad Max the whole film feels like it's one big rip-off & doesn't have an original idea in it . Director Markham does a surprisingly excellent job here , Neon City is one of the best looking post apocalyptic films I've seen & I'm even more surprised by the fact this must have had a pretty low budget . The landscapes are fantastic & really help the look of the film , apparently shot on the Utah flatlands during winter it has a great feel & desolate atmosphere to it . The production design is also rather good with nice costumes & good sets . The look of Neon City is easily it's best aspect . The infrequent action scenes are bland & simply don't excite which is the films biggest problem , it's just not that much fun to watch & it's as simple & straight forward as that . Technically Neon City is fine & even quite impressive when everything is considered , don't expect many special effects though & the violence is rather tame . The acting isn't up to much although the usually great Michael Ironside has a rare lead role . Neon City is an average time waster at best & a lifeless unoriginal bore at worst , generally speaking I'd say it's somewhere between the two . Not one to rush out & buy I'm afraid .
Better than most recent low budget horror fare but still no masterpiece .	Brain Dead starts as a small meteorite crashes to Earth from outer space & lands directly on fisherman Bill's ( Dennis Michael Tenney ) head & lodges inside his brain where a parasitic alien black slime attaches itself & takes control of Bill turning him into a brain eating zombie . Two convicts the mild mannered Clarence ( Joshua Benton ) & the psychotic Bob ( David Crane ) can't believe their luck when their prison transport van gets a flat , Bob uses the situation to kill the guard & make his escape into the isolated woods where handcuffed together Clarence & Bob find a seemingly abandoned log cabin . Then two female hikers & a preacher & his assistant turn up seeking shelter , then the cabin comes under attack from various alien controlled zombies . . . Produced & directed by Kevin Tenney who has had some degree of success in the low budget horror genre with the likes of Witchboard ( 1986 ) , Night of the Demons ( 1988 ) , Witchtrap ( 1989 ) & Endangered Species ( 2002 ) although he's not exactly a well known name , his latest effort is this rather unsubtle horror gore comedy alien zombie flick which has a certain tacky entertainment value but I am definitely not as impressed as the other IMDb user's who have written comments for it here . I would say Brain Dead steals it's title from the brilliant Peter Jackson horror gore comedy of the same name but lift's it's story straight from The Thing ( 1982 ) & The Evil Dead ( 1982 ) with it's body controlling alien & it's central concept of various teenage character's trapped in a log cabin in the woods terrorised by possessed ( by aliens rather than evil spirits but still possessed all the same ) zombies who try to pick them off one-by-one . In this review I have now mention three other horror films , Braindead ( 1992 ) , The Thing & The Evil Dead & I have to say Brain Dead isn't anywhere near as good as any of them & while there are one or two fun moments I don't think it's that good a film . The script tries to be clever & funny which is fine if you find this moronic playground style humour amusing but I didn't , in fact I found it all rather predictable , stale & the timing just isn't right either . Almost all of the gags & humour fell flat for me , I didn't laugh once during this & the humour is so low brow that it feels like it was written by a five year old . There are big pacing problems too , the first half of the film is really slow going with all these character's meeting up & arguing & trying to be funny , the character's are really obvious stereotypes that are poor & feel like they belong in some cheap TV comedy sketch show . There's a man hating lesbian , a perverted preacher , a smooth wise-cracking hero & a comedy Sheriff . The twist at the end was obviously inspired ( or ripped-off ) from The Thing & overall while it has a few fun moments I can't get that excited about it . There's some reasonable gore effects here , I say reasonable because they are played for laughs & bouncing rubber joke shop brains covered in slime lessen the impact . A guy has his head ripped in two & his brain falls out , a guy has his head shot off , a zombie smashes his fist through a woman's face & grabs her brain & she is seen staggering around with a hole in her face , someones arm is blown off , someone is shot in two , there are various decapitations & severed heads too . Quite brightly lit & shot Brain Dead isn't scary & is played for laughs more than suspense . All of the female leads get naked at some point or other whether it's skinny dipping or a needless shower scene Tenney always manages to find a reason . There's an unbelievably tacky shot in which the camera travels up a woman's skirt & a close-up of her vagina is seen & then the black alien slime spurts out of it onto the camera , that about sums up the level of sophistication in Brain Dead & the audience it's aiming for . Filmed in California the production values are alright but it does look a bit cheap at times , it's well made enough I suppose but there's no particular stand-out feature . The acting is alright , some are worse than other's but they at least try . One of the worst filmmakers working in the horror genre today Jim Wynorski has a small cameo as the Sheriff but thankfully doesn't seem to have contributed anything behind the camera . Brain Dead is a stupid horror comedy with added cheesy gore effects , I personally didn't find it funny at all but then maybe I just find this lowest common denominator type humour a little beneath my intelligence . It has one or two decent moments but the pacing is poor & the story is just a rip-off of better films .
" The closer you get to evil the less evil it becomes . " Dull as dishwater supernatural thriller .	Lost Souls starts with Father Lareaux ( John Hurt ) , Father Jeremy ( James Lancaster ) , Decon John Townsend ( Elias Koteas ) & a young woman named Maya Larkin ( Winona Ryder ) visiting a patient named Henry Birdson ( John Diehl ) in a mental institution upon his request who happens to be a convicted killer & seemingly possessed . The four visitors perform an exorcism which causes a brain aneurysm & renders Henry speechless , some time later Maya deciphers some notes in Henry's room which leads her to the name Peter Kelson ( Ben Chaplin ) who has made a career out of studying murderers & writing books on them . Maya believes that the Devil will possess Peter & thus take on human form just as God did with Jesus & , well actually I don't know as it's never really made clear what would happen . Maya tracks Peter down to his home in New York where she tries to convince him that he will soon become the Anti-Christ which Peter doesn't really take that much notice of , at first that is as events start to happen that ultimately convince him differently & that he will indeed be possessed by the Devil . . . Directed by Janusz Kaminski who is much better known as Steven Spielberg's usual Oscar winning cinematographer with credits to his name like Schindler's List ( 1993 ) , The Lost World : Jurassic Park ( 1997 ) , Saving Private Ryan ( 1998 ) , Minority Report ( 2002 ) & War of the Worlds ( 2005 ) with Lost Souls being his only directing credit , to be brutally honest the guy is obviously a talented cinematographer but he should leave the directing side of films alone . The script by Pierce Gardner is as dull as dishwater , dialogue driven rather than action & just rips off ideas & themes from far better films like The Exorcist ( 1973 ) & The Omen ( 1976 ) . Everything you would expect is here at some point , an exorcism , crucifixes , possession , hallucinations & just everyone in sight questioning their beliefs & religion , yawn . To make matters worse , much worse , is the fact that Lost Souls is slow , bland , forgettable , dull & ultimately a complete waste of 100 odd minutes . I only saw it mere hours ago & I'm struggling to remember half of it , the story itself had potential I suppose but it just plods along in a very unexciting fashion until it's awful ending , I mean would you shoot someone dead because a car dashboard clock read 6 . 66 ? It might just have been faulty , take it to the nearest garage & get it checked out but there is no need to shoot someone through the head because of it , is there ? I don't even want to think about Lost Souls anymore & the fact that it sat on the shelf for over a year before the studio finally had the courage to release it should say something in itself . One area where Lost Souls does impress is with it's visual style & look , Kaminski is obviously a cinematographer as he spends far more time on how the film looks than trying to entertain the audience , anyway Lost Souls looks fabulous with bleached out colours that make it almost black and white , Kaminski loves his rays & shafts of light as they are everywhere & he throws in various tricks & cool camera angles to keep things interesting , on a visual level anyway . With a budget of about $28 , 000 , 000 I was amazed at how cheap Lost Souls feels , apart from the cinematography it has nothing going for it . The setting is dull as is the music & general feel throughout . The acting was OK but I didn't particularly care for anyone which was a big problem with a character driven film such as this . Forget about any blood , gore or special effects as there aren't any . Lost Souls has to be one of the lamest films I've seen in a while only saved by striking photography & this is far from enough to save it , one to avoid unless you suffer from insomnia .
Not great .	The Dead Hate the Living ! is set in an abandoned hospital where several enterprising young filmmakers have broken into illegally to shot a low budget zombie horror flick ( art imitating life maybe ? ) . The director Dave ( Eric Clawson ) has his two sisters Shelly ( Wendy Speake ) & Nina ( Kimberly Pullis ) in the leading roles , his mate Paul ( Brett Beardslee ) is doing the make-up effects & he has got the hot Topaz ( Jamie Donahue ) to be a production assistant . While exploring the hospital the crew come across a strange looking coffin like object in a downstairs laboratory , they open it up & the dead body of Dr . Eibon ( Matt Stephens ) falls out , sensing a bit of an opportunity Dave decides to put the body in his film but after accidentally bring it back to life using the strange coffin thing the crew have to fight for their lives as zombies start to appear everywhere as it quickly becomes clear that the dead hate the living . . . Written & directed by Dave Parker this cheap as chips zombie flick isn't as bad as it could have been & isn't as bad as a lot of low budget crappy horror flicks I've endured recently but it's still not very good . Low budget horror film maker , Full Moon Pictures president & killer puppet lover Charles Band was the executive producer although even he couldn't bring himself to release The Dead Hate the Living ! through his Full Moon Pictures company , hey he might not have particularly high standards but at least he does have standards . Anyway , here the script takes ages to go anywhere , apart from a brief pre-credit sequence it's well over 50 minutes before any zombies show up to terrorise the cast & that ladies & gentlemen is just too long . The whole first 50 minutes establishes that a film crew are making a horror film in hospital illegally & basically that's it , until the first zombie show's up this film is firmly entrenched in snoozesville . Then there are lots of questions over the plot , if the guy killed himself during the pre-credits sequence how did he end up in the coffin thing ? Where did the zombie that was seen during the pre-credit sequence go ? Why didn't that zombie follow Dave & Topaz into the air vent ? Why did Dave emerge the other side in front of Topaz when Topaz climbed into the vent before Dave to begin with ? Why are some of the zombies easy to kill while other's aren't ? Why do some talk while other's don't ? Why can some sense when someone is alive & other's can't ? What was that coffin thing ? Where did it come from ? Who made it ? What was it's function ? Why is The Dead Hate the Living ! such a poorly constructed film where things just happen for the hell of it with little regard if anything makes any reasonable sense ? Don't ask me , ask the people who made it . There are also some glaring references to other horror films , actor's & director's from John Carpenter , Sam Raimi , George Romero , Lucio Fulci to Bruce Campbell , Dick Miller & the obscure Italian special make-up effects man Gino De Rossi who besides doing the gory effects for such Italian splatter fare as Zombie Flesh Eaters ( 1979 ) , City of the Living Dead ( 1980 ) , Pirahna Part 2 : The Spawning ( 1981 ) , Cannibal Ferox ( 1981 ) & The House by the Cemetery ( 1981 ) also worked on the latest Bond film Casino Royal ( 2007 ) ! Director Parker does OK on what was admittedly a low budget , at least there's some cheap gore effects here . There's a decapitation or two , some rotten zombies one of whom has their face literally punched in , there's some bubbling skin effects , someones guts are pulled out & there's some blood splatter . As in a lot of low budget horror flicks these days there are some truly awful CGI computer effects , when you have literally millions to spend on computer effects like Spider-Man ( 2002 ) they can look absolutely spectacular but when your working on the sort of budget the makers of The Dead Hate the Living ! have it's impossible to create realistic computer effects . Here they use CGI to make three zombies appear as if they are on fire , they probably couldn't afford to achieve the effect on set & it looks terrible , I've seen PS3 computer games with better fire effects . It's not scary , there's very little atmosphere or tension & the story is far too loose to be gripping . Amusingly I watched this on cable TV last night ( yep , at least I didn't spend any money on it ) & during the continuity announcement just before it started the woman called it ' The Living Hate the Dead ' rather than The Dead Hate the Living ! , I'm not being funny but you would have though a TV station would at least know the correct name of the film they are about to show or is that asking for too much ? With a supposed budget of about $150 , 000 this was definitely a low budget flick , unfortunately that doesn't automatically mean we should ignore all it's faults because at the end of the day it will cost as much to rent or buy this as a big Hollywood blockbuster like Transformers ( 2007 ) & to be brutally honest I know which I'd rather watch & to give you a clue it's not The Daed Hate the Living ! . The acting could have been worse & Jamie Donahue who played Tpoaz is hot & helps make this a bit more watchable . The Dead Hate the Living ! isn't that good , it's not as bad as some low budget efforts out there but that doesn't amount to much in itself . If your a real low budget horror film junkie than this may pass 90 odd minutes harmlessly enough but I'd struggle to personally recommend it to anyone .
Slow moving & rather uneventful creature feature .	They Nest starts one night in the ' Northwest Atlantic Ocean ' during a thunderstorm where a sailor on a boat is unceremoniously bound , gagged & thrown overboard . . . Boston hospital emergency room doctor Benjamin Cahill ( Thomas Calabro ) has lost his nerve & needs a break , he heads for Noah's Island in Cusco Bay in Maine where he has recently brought a rundown house & intends to spend some time doing it up . Unfortunately Dr . Cahill arrives on the island at the same time the sailor's body washes up ashore with an unwanted passenger , a large cockroach like insect that paralyses it's living victims before laying it's eggs in them to gestate & hatch within a free meal . Soon the bodies begin to mount as the hordes of insects work their way through the local population , it's up to the doc to work out what's going on & convince a disbelieving townspeople before it's too late . . . Directed by Ellroy Elkayem this made-for-TV creature feature about nasty cockroach's is slightly below average for me for the genre . Not to be confused with the similar sounding Roger Corman produced genetically created killer cockroach flick The Nest ( 1988 ) this is a fairly slow going collection of clichés . From the outsider who is shunned by the local townspeople & given the cold shoulder to a local Sheriff , from the isolated small community location to the killer insect menace that when the bodies start to show up no-one believes anything sinister is going on until things have reached a dangerous plateau . There's nothing new or original in the script by co-producers John Claflin & Daniel Zelman , nothing that us creature feature veterans haven't seen a hundred times before & nothing we won't see a hundreds more before our killer bug / animal / alien / monster film viewing days are over . They Nest is very professional & well written to a point , the character's are pretty good , the arguments & situations they find themselves in are fairly believable & the story makes reasonable sense . The films explanation for the cockroach's is that they are a new undiscovered species , if that was the case & these cockroach things exist why haven't anyone come across them before ? If these things breed so fast why wasn't the entire boat at the start infected & the crew either dead or full of more eggs ? Then again I suppose we really shouldn't think about it too much as the filmmakers obviously hoped we wouldn't . My main problem with They Nest is that it's so generic , forgettable & routine with a snail's pace so that it's a chore to sit through even once , there are much better killer cockroach films out there ( The Nest being one ) & there are better killer bug films out there too . Director Elkayem does a good job & the film looks really nice , it looks better than most made-for-TV flicks that I have seen anyway . Unfortunately the sporadic bursts of action come few & far between & are quite lethargic , they are not scary , there's no tension or atmosphere & the ending is rubbish as well . If that wasn't bad enough this is PG stuff all the way without a trace of blood or gore , that definitely counts as a strike against it as far as I am concerned . The special effects are decent enough although they are limited to the CGI computer graphic animated cockroach variety . With a very healthy sounding $4 , 000 , 000 budget this actually had a fair amount of money thrown at it & it shows with high production values throughout . Apparently shot in Vancouver in British Columbia in Canada but set in Maine . The acting is alright by a largely unknown cast although Dean Stockwell showed up for a few days filming as the Sheriff & despite near top billing in the credits doesn't get much screen time . They Nest is a slightly below average creature feature , it's slow going for the majority of the run time but it's well made . It's all very middle of the road , clichéd , routine & predictable stuff , personally it didn't do that much for me .
" It's like someone came in here & tore through these guys like tissue paper . " Below average creature feature .	Stinger starts ' 3 Months Ago ' on the submarine the SS Newark where genetic experiments have gone awry & the crew member are brutally slaughtered by large killer scorpions . . . Jump to ' Camp Pendleton ' a couple of months later where General Ashford ( James Cagnard ) brief's Lieutenant Williams ( John Miranda ) on his mission to board the Newark & assist genetic scientist Dr . Carly Ryan ( Michelle Meadows ) , before anyone knows it a group of corporate scientists & marines are on-board the Newark & are shocked to discover he mutilated corpses of the crew apart from Dr . Mike Thompson ( Casey Clark ) who doesn't make much sense . It's not long before the scorpions attack , first to fall is Lt . Williams so Sergeant Sam Harmon ( Christopher Persson ) is promoted & takes the responsibility to get everyone to safety & end the menace of the giant scorpions forever . . . This Sweedish America co-production was directed by Martin Munthe & he also handled the cinematography & I thought this was a strictly by-the-numbers uninspiring creature feature . It's early into the new year & Stinger is the first giant genetically mutated monster / creature / insect type film I've seen in 2007 , hopefully things can only get better . . . The script by Mat Nastos is incredibly clichéd & gets all of it's ideas from other films most notably Aliens ( 1986 ) , lets see there's the isolated location in this case being a submarine , there's the hastily assembled team of marines including one who chews on a cigar throughout the entire film , there's the scientists including a blonde Sweedish one to try & explain it all & the evil money grabbing corporate villain who puts the mighty dollar above human life & the final ingredient being the monster / alien / insect or whatever , in this case there's loads of large scorpions running around but they're not utilised in any sort of unique or imaginative way so they might as well have been killer grasshoppers . Yeah , it's all here , unfortunately Stinger isn't an Aliens if you get what I mean . It's a touch long at over 100 minutes & it's throughly predictable although it moves along at a reasonable pace & as a dumb creature feature you could do worse despite what many say on the IMDb . . . Director Munthe doesn't distinguish himself , it's not scary , there's a lack of atmosphere & the action scenes are dull & unexciting . There's not many scorpion attacks & it's almost an hour before any significant action occurs , the special effects are at the bottom end of the scale but I have seen worse that's for sure . I mean that's not to say the effects in Stinger are good but I've seen worse . There isn't much blood or gore , there's some mutilated bodies , some decapitated heads & someone is ripped in half . The only clever & amusing moment in the entire film is when the naked Sweedish female scientist ask's her lover to turn her on by talking about all the money their going to make from the scorpions . . . However there was a moment which had me groaning & tearing my hair out in it's stupidity as a bloke tries to repair the submarine's circuitry & get the lights working by hitting the power supply / computer boards with a hammer & it works as well . . . Technically Stinger is average at best & there's the usual endless amount of dark corridors which gets monotonous . Stinger was shot in Stockholm in Sweeden if your interested . The acting was poor & there's nothing else to say . Stinger isn't a great film & it isn't a great horror film either , I can't recommend it at all but I've seen worse . If you liked Stinger ( unlikely ) you might like the similarly themed ' giant scorpions on the loose ' films Tail Sting ( 2001 ) or Scorpius Gigantus ( 2006 ) ( just as unlikely ) .
More Sc-Fi Channel ' Creature Feature ' madness .	Flu Bird Horror starts as two guy's out deer hunting in some isolated forest are attacked by what look like large reptilian prehistoric birds , one is killed while the other is badly injured . Meanwhile several convicted teens on a trip to the woods with a social worker are also attacked by the birds , with their social worker dead these layabout law-breaking teens have to work together to survive becoming bird food . Back with the fisherman & he is rescued by a local forest ranger who takes him to hospital where the doctor's get very worried as he seems to be infected with a highly contagious & lethal mutant strain of bird flu that could start a worldwide epidemic that could kill billions . . . Great , just what the world needed . Another Sci-Fi Channel ' Creature Feature ' with bad CGI computer effects & a totally lame & predictable story full of holes & bad writing . Issued on DVD in the US under the title of Flu Birds & knew I was in trouble when I saw Nu Image Films produced it & Leigh Scott directed it ( just check out their IMDb resumes & see at how many bad horror films they both have credited between them ) so at that point I wasn't expecting too much which is just as well because Flu Bird Horror isn't that good although I will admit I have seen worse Sci-Fi Channel ' Creature Features ' although that's certainly no sort of recommendation in itself . The script is pretty poor , the teen character's are all clichéd & annoying , there's virtually zero exposition or plot & the makers don't even try to suggest where the birds came from , what they are , where they have been , why no-one has ever seen them before , why there's only six of them , why they have only just started to attack people or why they carry a mutant strain of bird flu . Then there's the fact that Flu Bird Horror tends to focus more on the killer disease aspect of it's story like a zero budget rip-off of Outbreak ( 1995 ) rather than it's monster birds which would be fine but the disease angle is never tied up , the last time we see the hospital it's quarantined & the deadly mutant bird flu is rampant yet this side of the story is never resolved or gone back to again . Having said that it moves along at a reasonable pace , it doesn't outstay it's welcome , there are a couple of OK gore scenes & it's relatively entertaining in a crap sort of way if you don't think about the plot too much . Like all Sci-Fi Channel ' Creature Features ' Flu Bird Horror has plenty of CGI computer effects & I have to say while they aren't particularly good they are better than most of the Sci-Fi Channel output . There's some OK gore here too with a pecked out eyeball , a severed leg , a body bitten in half , some intestine eating & some guy with bird flu who has lots of open bloody sores all over his body . I think the DVD artwork displayed on the IMDb is misleading , this isn't about ordinary birds turning into killers & giving people horrible diseases as there's these prehistoric dinosaur looking creatures the origins of which are never explained in any way whatsoever . The production values are alright , it's fairly well made as far as cheap TV films go . The acting is alright too , even though the character's are poor the actor's are OK & there one or two good looking girls here which helps . Flu Bird Horror is a fairly routine Sci-Fi Channel ' Creature Feature ' that isn't as bad as some of it's type but that ain't saying much , if you know what to expect & can live with the expected & ^ obligatory flaws then you may get something out of Flu Bird Horror , all other's should steer well clear .
In his fists lies the destiny of the World . . . In his soul is the need for cataclysmic revenge . Average Sci-Fi martial arts adaptation of the Japanese anime .	Fist of the North Star starts with a lengthy , & boring , narration by a guy named Ryuken ( Malcolm McDowell ) . The opening shot is of a desolate post-apocalyptic world with what were once our cities but are now crumbling ruins , a lawless world where acid rain falls from the sky & the strong prey on the weak . Ryuken talks of a school of martial arts named the Southern Cross , the flag of the Southern Cross is now the fearful symbol of a new order . The North Star is the last opposing school , basically the Southern Cross is evil & the North Star is good . The Southern Cross Master , Lord Shin ( Costas Mandylor ) executes the Master of the North Star , Ryuken . Lord Shin also tires to kill Ryuken's son , Kenshiro ( Gary Daniels ) . Lord Shin leaves Kenshiro for dead in the wastelands & takes his lover Julia ( Isako Washio ) as his own to Southern Cross City which he rules . However , Kenshiro is not dead & sets about finding Lord Shin & putting a end to his evil plans to ' liberate the wastelands ' by any means necessary . About 200 miles North of Southern Cross City is a small town called Paradise Valley where they protect their most precious commodity , water . Lord Shin wants this water & sends his deformed henchmen & their gangs out to destroy Paradise Valley & take the water lead by head bad guy known as the Jackal ( Chris Penn ) . Kenshiro runs into a teenager named Bat ( Dante Basco ) & a young blind girl named Lynn ( Nalona Herron ) who he magically cures . Since they both have a common problem in the shape of Lord Shin & his men they sort of join forces to defeat him , after some silly plot devices keep throwing them together . I guess that's just about it , Kenshiro eventually meets up with Lord Shin & after some personal angst over Shin kidnapping Julia & murdering his Father they have a fight & that's about that . Co-written & directed by by Tony Randel based on the Japanese comic & anime Hokuto No Ken by Buronson & Tetsuo Hara I thought this live-action version of Fist of the North Star had a lot potential which it ultimately didn't deliver . The script by Randel & Peter Atkins ditches the over-the-top violence & comic book feel . The film seems to take itself a little too seriously & as a result ends up being a bit dull . There are a couple of scenes which try to recreate the comic book feel like when Kenshiro kicks someones face & dislocates his jaw to an amazing extent or in the same sequence where he punches someone in the back & a big bulge appears on their chest from the force . Unfortunately these are about the only scenes worth mentioning in this regard as the rest of the fights are short , dull , unimaginative & few & far between . Towards the end Kenshiro has to fight lots of Lord Shin's guards , he literally punches or kicks them once & they're defeated , Kenshiro's climactic fight with Lord Shin was also a let down . Fist of the North Star really needed lots more blood , gore , violence & energy in it's disappointing fight scenes . Having said that the fights are reasonably well choreographed & aren't any worse than any other low budget martial arts film . The story is simple to say the least , large chunks of it are annoyingly told in monologues & flashbacks by various characters . The characters were annoying thinly sketched bland stereotypes . It also could have done with losing a few minutes worth of running time as it drags a little in places . The cast features some familiar faces , Malcolm McDowell is in it for about three minutes maximum even though he gets near top-billing in the credits , Chris Penn makes for a sleazy bad guy & is criminally wasted throughout , Costas Mandylor didn't convince me as the most evil man on Earth , Clint Howard makes an appearance as Stalin one of Lord Shin's henchmen , Melvin Van Peebles was here somewhere but I don't know who he played & as for leading man Gary Daniels he is about as wooden & unconvincing as I expected . The music by Christopher L . Stone is totally inappropriate as it's very quiet & orchestral , this film needed an upbeat fast score to compliment the action scenes & at least try to get the blood pumping a little . The one thing where Fist of the North Star gains a few points is it's production values & design , it's actually rather impressive . The wastelands , Paradise Valley & Southern Cross City all look very convincing considering the budget as do the costumes & the overall look of Fist of the North Star . There isn't much blood or gore & disappointingly not a single on screen exploding head even though Chris Penn's head almost explodes but unfortunately the scene cuts away just at the vital moment , there is a cool looking zombie though who's in it for a couple of minutes & a few blood spraying wounds . Overall Fist of the Nortrh Star is a reasonable film , there's nothing greatly wrong with it as it's generally well made & tells it's story competently enough but I can't help but feel disappointed at what it could have been had it been made by a stronger director who had the guts to go with what made the original Japanese comic so good . Average at best , worth watching if you've got nothing better to do .
Their up watching my movies at 3 O'Clock this morning , all my movies seem to be played at that time in the morning . . . " Disappointing short .	Linda Hayden : An Angel for Satan is a short 10ish minute documentary on the Anchor Bay UK DVD of Blood On Satan's Claw ( 1970 ) . Hayden basically goes through her horror film career from her first role in Baby Love ( 1968 ) to Taste the Blood of Dracula ( 1970 ) then came Blood On Satan's Claw after which Vampira ( 1974 ) & Madhouse ( 1974 ) before finally ending on Expose ( 1976 ) which she seems to hate & regrets taking part in . Unfortunately Hayden mentions each film so briefly that virtually no useful or interesting information is learned . She spends most of the time talking about her co-stars like Christopher Lee , David Niven & Vincent Price which is all well & good but a simple ' he was a nice man ' type comment is a complete waste of time & the opportunity to say something more informative & interesting . But the biggest disappointment for me has to be the fact that this documentary is on the Blood On Satan's Claw DVD & I was expecting & hoping that the interview would be about that film in particular which happens to be one of my favourite horror films & it simply isn't . Hayden talks about it for all of about 3 minutes & doesn't say anything overly exciting . As a free extra on a DVD it's certainly worth a watch but I just couldn't help but feel disappointed at how shallow & forgettable Hayden's comments are . I love Blood On Satan's Claw , it's one of my very favourite horror films & I suppose I was just annoyed that she barely talked about it . There are a few clips from Blood On Satan's Claw but not from any of the other films mentioned , probably a rights issue . Could have been better , much better .
Did I miss something ? They saved the least until last .	Mimic : Sentinel is set in New York where a sufferer of the disease Stricklers which is mentioned in the first Mimic ( 1997 ) named Marvin ( Karl Geary ) lives with his mom Simone ( Amada Plummer ) & younger sister Rosy ( Alexis Dziena ) in an apartment block , he can rarely venture outside his sterile room as he is apparently ' environmentally sensitive ' whatever that means . So what does he do to pass the time ? For the past 10 years he has taken pictures of the people in the opposite apartment block & basically spies on them , we all have to have a hobby I suppose . However his picture taking gets him into trouble when he witnesses a drug dealer name Des ( Keith Robinson ) get killed by someone . Marvin begins to organise an investigation into the killing & drags his sister into it but they soon find out that what killed Des wasn't human , it was in fact one of the giant mutant cockroaches from the previous films & it's up to him to stop them . . . Written & directed by J . T . Petty Mimic : Sentinel is the third film in the Mimic series & you know a series is in trouble when they stop numbering them after only the first two & as if by magic my fears are confirmed with this distinctly average at best horror / thriller . The script is basically Hitchcock's Rear Window ( 1954 ) with killer genetically created giant bugs , if that sounds appealing to you then what are you reading this for ? Go & rent it . If it doesn't sound appealing then you , like me , may not be that impressed with Mimic : Sentinel . The thing is I don't know if I missed something because the final 20 odd minutes came out of nowhere & I actually didn't really understand what was going on . For instance Lance Henriksen suddenly turns up & I honestly don't know who he was or his significance other than his photo is on the back of one of Marvin's books & he seems to know about the killer bugs . He also has this bag of stuff which I presume is the killer bugs blood so they won't attack him but I'm only guessing because that's what happened in the first film . There are other bits & pieces that I didn't understand either like the ' dead ' body Rosy shows Marvin under the drain cover at the start yet even though he takes photos of it it never mentioned or seen again , maybe I did miss something I don't know . Maybe Mimic : Sentinel doesn't have any plot holes or loose ends & it's a deeply complex intricately written & thought out piece of suspenseful film-making that I was too stupid to ' get ' , or then again maybe it's a cheap straight-to-video poorly written & contrived horror sequel that totally rips-off Rear Window & is basically rubbish , who knows . . . Director Petty does OK , the film has that downbeat somewhat gray look & feel about it like the previous two with it's rundown apartment blocks . Am I the only one who found the constant scenes shot through the lens of Marvin's camera highly annoying , I can't be surely ? Also was I the only on who thought this film was far too dark to the extent where it actually became almost impossible to see what was going on at times ? The special effect's are used sparingly & are OK but nothing that's going to impress you that much , the giant bugs don't feature that much which doesn't help . The gore is minimal , there's some blood splatter & someone is impaled on the giant bugs pincers ( or whatever they are ) but not much else to get excited about . Technically Mimic : Sentinel is alright & has that Hollywood polish about it , it's well made enough for sure with decent production values . The acting isn't that good & the always great Henriksen has nothing more than a glorified cameo . Mimic : Sentinel is an OK watch , I didn't think it was anything special & not as good as the previous two but that's just my opinion for what it's worth . Worth a watch if your desperate but don't bust a gut to see it .
More trashy fun as John Ashley heads back to ' Blood Island '	We start where the previous film , Mad Doctor of Blood Island ( 1968 ) finished with Dr . Bill Foster ( John Ashley again ) and Sheila Willard although she is never seen , escaping Blood Island on a boat . However , escaping with them is the mutant green chlorophyll contaminated monster . It starts to kill the crew , they shoot at it . In return the monster throws a barrel of petrol at them , the barrel bursts and petrol spills everywhere . One of the crew attacks the monster with a naked flame , it gets knocked out of his hand and the entire ship blows up and sinks . Only Foster and the monster survive . The monster is washed up on a beach . Foster is rescued and sent back to the mainland for treatment . Foster decides to return to Blood Island , and hires a small cargo ship to take him . When he arrives on the ship he finds a newspaper reporter Myra Russell ( Celeste Yarnall ) waiting for him . She thinks there might be a story and travels with Foster to investigate . Once at Blood Island Foster , Russell and the ship's Captain ( Beverly Miller ) find the tribes Chief Ramu ( Alfonso Carvajal , another returning cast member from the previous film ) is apprehensive and unfriendly . Foster starts by heading to Dr . Lorca's ( this time played by Eddie Garcia ) old house that was supposedly destroyed by fire . There he runs into an old enemy , Razak ( the returning Bruno Punzalan ) Dr . Lorca's henchman who had previously tried to kill him . With the discovery of Razak , Foster manages to convince Ramu to help him . They go in search of Razak and leave Myra behind in the village . However , Razak and his men kidnap her and take her to Dr . Lorca's elaborate hideout in the Valley of the Red Mist who is still alive and still conducting experiments on the unlucky locals , and keeps the green monsters decapitated head and body alive with the help of medical devices , for reasons which aren't really explained that well . It's up to Foster to finally put an end to Lorca's horrifying experiments and save the girl ! Written and directed by Eddie Romero I thought it was a pretty decent film , but not as good as Mad Doctor of Blood Island . This one plays more like a jungle adventure for the most part , with Ashley trying to save Yarnall's dopey reporter . The green monster has even better make up than the first , even though those eyes are still a problem , you can the actors eyelids , again . The problem is that it's barely in the film , after the cool opening sequence the monster doesn't attack anyone else in the whole film , the monsters headless body just lies there and it's head just sits on a table doing nothing in particular , a complete waste . The monster attacks were the best feature of the previous film and this feels like a bit of a disappointment . Dr . Lorca and his experiments are also almost completely ignored , he doesn't even turn up until about half way through the film . There is also a serious lack of blood and gore , which doesn't help it . The end sequence in which the locals fight Dr . Lorca's gang isn't very exciting and a little dull , a bit more imagination would have helped . Acting , again is OK , as are the effects , music , sets and editing , but non of it's brilliant . The Philippine jungle locations are again nice and colourful . It's a reasonable exploitation film , but overall I was a bit disappointed . There are better out there , but this ain't too bad .
" It's too terrifying to even try & visualise it . " Another average one-time-watch horror / thriller / mystery at best .	Dark Sanity starts with a seemingly happy married couple named Alan ( Chuck Jamison ) & Karen Nichols ( Kory Clark , the IMDb listing is wrong her name is definitely spelt with a ' K ' in the credits ) moving into a new house in Los Angeles area having relocated from San Diego . Karen is an ex-alcoholic & has in the past suffered from ' visions ' , things begin badly as no soon has Karen set foot in the house she has a horrifying psychic vision of a severed head . . . Alan tries to comfort her & they both try to forget the incident & get on with moving in . Alan is a salesman & invites his boss & his wife Mr & Mrs ( Clarine Jackman ) Jacobs round for dinner , an idea with which Mr Jacobs agrees to . At first the casual dinner party goes well but while going upstairs Karen suffers from another vision , this time a cloaked figure appears to attack her with an axe . The Jacobs quickly make their excuses & leave as Karen shouts , screams & acts like a real loon . Karen's visions continue & she thinks about starting to drink again when an ex-police Sergeant named Larry Craig ( Aldo Ray ) talks about the house's dark past . Craig says that a woman named Lucy Duncan ( Iris Bath ) was decapitated in the house about a year ago & he thinks that the wrong man was put away , Lucy's son Edward ( Dennis Barnett ) . Craig also says that he had strange visions in the house as well & that he was a personal friend of Lucy's . Craig believes that the murderer is still at large & Karen's visions can help him unlock the mystery , find the real killer & bring them to justice . But who can it be ? Surely it's not Benny the retarded gardener as that would be far too obvious , but who else is there . . . ? Directed Martin Green Dark Sanity is a strictly by-the-numbers murder mystery with a few horror elements thrown in for good measure . The script by Larry Hilbrand & Phillip Pine isn't exactly gripping edge-of-the-seat stuff as it plods along at a fairly pedestrian pace . The murder elements aren't introduced until the 30 odd minute mark when Craig eventually shows up , what proceeds that is Karen having a couple of very brief visions . Frankly I'm surprised at the IMDb on this occasion , they insist on no spoilers without warning readers yet the ' Plot Outline ' section on Dark Sanity's main page gives away the twist ending revealing Karen's visions weren't flashbacks to the past but in fact flashfarwards to the future , her future . The person who wrote that is fired ! Empty your desk now ! Anyway , it works OK as an overall storyline but seemed a little lightweight & the eventually unmasking of the killer was somewhat underwhelming & the motive was about as simplistic & dull as it could have been & it's a shame that such little effort appeared to go into this potentially make-or-break aspect of the script . Dark Sanity felt more like a Saturday afternoon crime mystery episode like Columbo ( 1971 - 2003 , wow has it really been that long ? ! ) or Quincy ( 1976 - 1983 ) just without the intelligence or personality . The psychic investigator portion of the script is also severely underdeveloped & this could have been a great plot thread but instead it's reduced to the cheapness of having Karen scared by her visions & being able to have a severed head turn up once in a while , the marital dramatics between Alan & Karen also seem unnecessary & are frankly tedious to sit through . One more thing , what has that black cat that keeps turning up got to do with anything ? There's not a lot of gore , just a couple of OK looking severed heads , one cat & one human & a severed hand . The acting is OK & varies throughout the film . Technically Dark Sanity looks rather cheap through it's relatively short 85 odd minute running time , it ain't going to win any awards that's for sure . The music sounds like it was composed for a completely different film & doesn't compliment the on screen action at all . Overall I thought Dark Sanity was an OK time waster , I don't think I will ever want to see it again but as a one-time-watch it was satisfactory . Average at best & a good episode of Columbo would probably be a better alternative , difficult to recommend .
" They looked like flying Piranha for Christ's sake . " Dull as dishwater killer bugs film .	Deadly Swarm starts in ' Central Guatamala ' where evil misguided scientist Dr . Schroeder ( J . Patrick McCormack ) has found a new species of Wasp , a deadly species of Wasp known as ' Black Fire ' that he hopes will help him create a cure for various diseases , don't ask . Dr . Schroeder pays a local drug runner to take the deadly Wasp's over the border & back into the U . S . but en route the truck crashes & the deadly Wasp's are released ! At a nearby Mexican town American entomologist Daniel Lang ( Shane Brolly ) is conducting research on Mosquito's when his friend Commandante Alvarez ( Pepe Serna ) ask's him to take a look at the crash site because the first Officer on the scene is now dead covered in stings & since Daniel is an expert on insects , well you get the idea . At first Daniel isn't sure but finds a large hive made from bone fragments in a box in the back of the truck which he takes away for analysis . Meanwhile nosey novelist Sandra Kern ( Kaarina Aufranc ) senses a story & sticks close to Daniel as he discovers that these deadly Wasp's lay eggs in their victims which eventually hatch sending 1000's more Wasp's on their way to repeat the process , they must be stopped as does the dangerous experiments of Schroeder . . . This American Mexican co-production was directed by Paul Andresen & is a bit of a snooze-fest . The script takes itself extremely seriously & is rather mundane & predictable not to mention the fact that it's a little on the clichéd side . I mean there's the good looking hero , a good scientist , an evil misguided scientist , a reporter , the uncaring Mayor who doesn't want to cancel a local festival for money reasons , the police guy & the disposable victims , they're all here . The film is pretty dull to watch , it's far from exciting as it plods along in a fairly standard linear way , there is at first an unidentified threat , hero identifies threat & then destroys threat & gets the girl & that's it , that's as much & as original as Deadly Swarm strives to be , it's as simple & straight forward as that . The character's are OK & it moves along at a reasonable pace but I just couldn't stop myself from becoming bored with it . There's a real lack of action or Wasp attacks & the climax absolutely sucks & isn't worth watching the preceding 80 minutes to see . I'm not sure about the start either , are the filmmakers really trying to tell us that a deadly species of Wasp lives only in the abandoned ruins of a Aztec temple ( or whatever it is ) & never leave it's confines , I mean Wasp's can fly can't they ? Why don't they just fly away ? Why live in some ruins ? What do they eat ? Why has no one ever seen them before ? Also , while on the subject of these Wasp's they're a bit dull & mundane in themselves aren't they ? I mean their not mutated Wasp's , not genetically engineered Wasp's , giant over-sized Wasp's or anything like that they're just , well ordinary looking Wasp's which just didn't inspire or excite me at all . Director Andresen doesn't do anything particularly memorable , the film has a certain made-for-TV look & feel to it . When you think about it Deadly Swarm doesn't make a whole lot of sense , there are no scares , there's no shocks & the Wasp attack scenes are pretty bad with terrible CGI . There is no gore whatsoever , a few people covered in stings but that's it apart from a scene when a swarm of Wasp's emerge from someones stomach but the CGI is so bad during this scene it doesn't count & there's no blood either . Technically Deadly Swarm is competent & generally well made except for some awful special effects , the Mexican locations are quite bright & nice but hardly worth watching the film for . The acting wasn't up to much & didn't do anything for me . Deadly Swarm is a lame killer bug film that lacks any gore , any action & has a predictable & dull story . If you haven't already seen 100 films like this ( which I have unfortunately ) then you may like it as it's watchable but it won't knock anyone's socks off that's for sure . Only if your desperate or easily pleased .
" You've got to admit this does look like a dog's head . " I thought it was OK .	Howling IV : The Original Nightmare tells the tale of Los Angeles based author Marie Adams ( Romy Windsor ) who has a deadline looming but has also been suffering from bad dreams & hallucinations of a mysterious nun , after a public breakdown her doctor advises her husband Richard ( Michael T . Weiss ) to take her on a break , a complete rest form work . Richard agrees & rents a cottage just outside a small town called Drago , once there the place seems perfect , beautiful idyllic scenery & pleasant townsfolk . However Marie's opinion soon changes as her visions continue & she is terrified by constant howling at night . One day a nun named Janice ( Susanne Severeid ) visits Marie & tells her about her friend sister Ruth ( Megan Kruskal ) who was found in the area wondering the woods rambling incoherently , sister Ruth died shortly after & Janice is determined to discover the truth . Janice then mentions that sister Ruth talked about hearing howling noises which peaks Marie's interest & she decides to help Janice in her search for answers . As Marie & Janice investigate they uncover some dark secrets that townsfolk of Drago would rather keep hidden & are prepared to kill to do so . . . This English production was directed by John Hough & Howling IV : The Original Nightmare was the fourth entry in the Howling series of films which currently number seven , I can't say it's a particularly good good film but at least it's 100 times better than the dire Howling : New Moon Rising ( 1995 ) which was about as much fun as being anally raped with a large vegetable . The script by Clive Turner & Freddie Rowe is based on the Howling novels by Gary Brandner takes itself extremely seriously & for the most part is pretty slow going for about 70 minutes with virtually no indication that this film is indeed about Werewolves , one is neither seen nor the word Werewolf mentioned for over an hour . The film builds itself up as a mystery with the events that surround sister Ruth & Marie's visions dominating proceedings . Talking of Marie's visions they are never explained fully , are they hallucinations ? Are they visions of past events ? Are they psychic images or just her imagination ? Don't expect to find out . Also why does Richard change his story at the end from being bitten by a large wolf to falling down a gully ? I found the story decent , I'd have liked some proper attack scenes but the mystery elements actually kept me watching through to the end , it ain't the best film ever but I found it watchable if nothing else . Director Hough doesn't distinguish himself , the film feels like it was made-for-TV & while Howling IV : The Original Nightmare doesn't suffer from that indignity it has the dubious honour of going straight-to-video & you can see why . Notorious producer Harry Alan Towers broke anti-apartheid sanctions to film it in South Africa on the cheap & the location makes for a poor California . Forget about any gore , a few bites , a decapitated dog's head & a really impressive special effect where a man graphically melts & from the resulting puddle of goo a Werewolf emerges , I'm not sure why but it's a cool scene anyway . Technically Howling IV : The Original Nightmare is OK , it's a bit flat & forgettable although a few of the special effects are pretty good . The acting isn't great but it's OK . Howling IV : The Original Nightmare isn't anything special , until the last 20 odd minutes you'd never know you were watching a Werewolf film . It tries to build an air of mystery but the problem is you know you're watching a film called Howling IV : The Original Nightmare which is a sequel in a series of film all about Werewolves so when they finally do make an appearance it's far from surprising . Too slow for most I'd have thought , probably best to give this one a miss , not the worst Howling film but by no means the best either .
A nation of animal lovers ? Yeah , but this is quite literally going too far .	Irena Gallier ( Nastassja Kinski ) arrives in New Orleans for the first time . Irena is greeted at the airport by her brother Paul ( Malcolm McDowell ) who she has never met . Paul takes Irena back to his house but soon disappears . A prostitute named Ruthie ( Lynn Lowry ) is late for a client . She enters the seedy room and finds a strange slimy substance on the bed . She also notices a black fury thing sticking out from under the bed , she kicks it with her high heeled shoes and it turns out to be the tail belonging to a huge black Leopard which mauls her ankle but she manages to escape . Oh , and her bra ' rips ' in the middle exposing her breasts . The massage parlour's manager ( John H . Fields ) traps the Leopard in the room and calls the authorities . The city zoo's curator Dr . Oliver Yates ( John Heard ) and his team , Alice Perrin ( Annette O'Toole ) and Joe Creigh ( Ed Begley Jr . ) are called in to capture the Leopard . Irena decides to see the sights that New Orleans has to offer . Irena eventually ends up at the zoo where she sees the Leopard , now safely behind the bars of a cage . Irena stays behind after the zoo closes and is found by Oliver . They strike up a friendship and within a few hours Oliver has given Irena a job in the zoo's gift shop . One day while Joe tries to feed the Leopard it rips his arm off and Joe dies , Oliver decides to shoot the Leopard but when he returns with a gun he finds the Leopard gone and a strange slimy substance on the floor . That night Paul returns home and confronts Irena , making sexual advances towards her . Irena runs from Paul and stops a police car . Back at Paul's house they make a grisly discovery in the basement . Paul needs Irena and will do whatever it takes to convince her she needs him too . Things become even more complicated when Irena and Oliver fall in love but Irena refuses to have sex with him , as events unfold it becomes clear that Irena and Paul both harbour a dark secret . Extensively re-written and directed by Paul Schrader I thought this was one of the dullest and most boring nothing horror films that I have seen in some time . The script that was originally written by Alan Ormsby before the re-write by Schrader is so slow it's frightening , and at almost two hours long the Cat People outstays it's welcome well before the end credits roll . For most of the first hour , maybe a little more , it's no more than a drama as the film focuses on Oliver's and Irena's relationship and not much else . The film also has many unnecessary sequences and drags , badly . Another small problem is that the film tries to present it's story as some kind of mystery , well I don't want to seem fussy but the films title is ' Cat People ' and that sort of gives it away and it doesn't come as a surprise that people turn into Leopards if you know what I mean . One more thing I don't understand , if these cat people turn into Leopards during or after sexual contact why has Paul already turned into one before the prostitute even enters the room ? Most of the characters are a little on the bitty side and somewhat underdeveloped . I also think it was a mistake to cast Kinski who can't act and on occasion looks like a man with her short hair ( hey , it's true ) and McDowell seems uninterested and unsuited to the role of the bad guy . I have to say that I didn't care about any of the characters involved which is never a good thing in a film . The film has lots of nudity with Kinski the main culprit as she exposes her breasts and body numerous times during the last 30 or so minutes , having said that though most of the female cast take their tops off at some point . There are some strong sex scenes too , especially at the end when Oliver ties a naked Kinski to the bed by her wrists and ankles and then has fairly explicit sex with her . Unfortunately the horror element of the story is severely lacking , in fact there is very little horror in it . There is very little gore either , an autopsy on a Leopard , a bitten off arm and a mangled dead body is about it . The transformation sequence is so short as to be almost inconsequential , although the meagre screen time it does get the transformation looks quite cool . However I will admit that the film has a really nice look throughout and great cinematography by John Bailey which captures the New Orleans locations extremely well . Personally I really didn't find much in this film to like , I will admit that it's well made and tells a story competently enough but I just found the whole thing so dull and uneventful . This is not a film that I can recommend , there are much better horror films out there .
" Put him in a straight jacket & give him an enema . " Not very funny comedy / horror .	Dracula : Dead and Loving It starts in Transylvania during the year 1593 where British solicitor R . M . Renfield ( Peter MacNicol ) has a meeting with Count Dracula ( Leslie Nielsen ) to conclude the sale of Carfax Abbey in England . Once the forms are signed Dracula travels to London to take up residence in his new property which is situated next to a mental asylum run by Dr . Jack Seward ( Harvey Korman ) & as Dracula introduces himself he notices Lucy Westenra ( Lysette Anthony ) a friend of Seward's daughter Mina ( Amy Yasbeck ) & takes an unhealthy interest in her as he changes into a bat , flies into her room while she is asleep & drinks her blood . Lucy becomes ill & Seward calls in Dr . Abraham Van Helsing ( Mel Brooks ) an expert on rare diseases who quickly realises that Lucy has been bitten by a Vampire . It's up to Van Helsing to save the day & Seward's daughter Mina who Dracula intends to become his next victim . . . This American French co-production was co-written , produced , directed & starred Mel Brooks & to be honest it didn't do that much for me . The script by Brooks , Rudy De Luca & Steve Haberman follows Bram Stoker's original novel surprisingly closely & retains most of the relevant action & character's but just spoofs everything up . While the story is solid the decision to turn the film into a silly slapstick comedy first & foremost is one that doesn't work , surely Dracula : Dead and Loving It would have worked much better if the filmmakers had worked around the principal that they were making a horror film first as per the original novel & structure the comedy , the gags & the spoof material around it . As it is Dracula : Dead and Loving It is a comedy first & horror a very distant second while I think it would have been much better the other way around with it being a horror first & comedy second like The Evil Dead ( 1982 ) or Dog Soldiers ( 2002 ) , I mean you can't really add horror to comedy yet I would say you could add a comedic element to horror . Just a thought . Another big problem with Dracula : Dead and Loving It is that it's just not very funny , in fact as to prove my point the best scene is when Harker & Van Helsing stake Lucy through the heart & are covered in gallons of blood , horror first guys , horror first . . . The only other funny moments in it are two running gags , one about enema's & the other a silly duel between Van Helsing & Dracula about who has to have the last word . Director Brooks uses loads of ancient gags & jokes from silly accents to moronic slapstick like where Dracula rises from his coffin & hits his head on a low hanging chandelier , hey this is classy sophisticated stuff . To it's credit the film looks really good & it has great sets , costumes , special effects & period production design . Apparently the dialogue in Dracula : Dead and Loving It spoofs a lot of the dialogue from the original Dracula ( 1931 ) with Bela Lugosi , well that's fine if you've seen the original Dracula which I haven't & I'm sure many other people haven't either so I have to ask myself what was the point when there was always going to a large amount of viewers who haven't seen the original Dracula , it seems like a bit of a waste & an in-joke a lot of people weren't going to get . Brooks goes for comedy all the way so forget about any scares . Technically Dracula : Dead and Loving It is pretty darn good but this aspect of things only leads to more frustration when one thinks what this film could have been , as someone who has sat through loads of low budget horror I could only think what the likes of Hammer could have done with a budget like this . The acting wasn't anything special & everyone plays it over-the-top , I must say that I personally thought Nielsen was awful as Dracula & had little screen presence . Dracula : Dead and Loving It is a comedy that isn't very funny & a horror that has no horror , it fails at everything it tries to do . It's not a totally worthless film as it's quite nice to look at & it has a strong story thanks to the original source but as a whole it didn't work for me .
Cheap and nasty Eurotrash from Jesus Franco .	Director Franco stars as Mathis Vogel . An ex Czech priest who was thrown out of the Church because his methods were to ' severe ' . He is also an escapee from a mental asylum who is wanted by German police for crimes against minors . At the time the film takes place he is in Paris , writing sadomasochistic stories for ' The Garter and Dagger ' . The editor Raymond Franvel ( Pierre Taylou ) and his rather sexy secretary Anne ( Lina Romay ) are involved in staging fake black masses and satanic rituals , it's a hobby I suppose . The loony Vogel is deeply in love with Anne , which I can understand . He rents an apartment across the road from Anne so he can spy on her and her lesbian lover roommate Rose ( Lynn Monteil ) . Vogel overhears a conversation between Raymond and Anne talking about organizing another one of their satanic rituals and believes them to be serious . After torturing the address out of a nightclub prostitute Gina ( Carole Riviere ) , he witnesses one of the rituals in which he believes a girl is murdered , he leaves before the girl reappears on stage unharmed . Vogel then goes around in the name of god torturing and killing the people involved , cleansing their souls in the process , and eventually kidnapping the sexy Anne , who he keeps tied up naked in his house so he can torture her whenever he wants . By this time the police , Inspector Tanner ( Olivier Mathot ) and his Deputy Malou ( Roger Germanes ) are hot on his tail , but will they be able to save Anne and put an end to Vogel's twisted ways ? Directed , co written and starring Jesus Franco this is pure exploitation trash . Franco fills the screen with so much nudity and sex it becomes tiresome . Just about every female in the film is there just to take her clothes off . Regular sex , orgies , lesbianism , sexual assault and S & M , it's all in here somewhere ! Not really much blood or violence , a dove has it's head cut off and Franco stabs and cuts a few people but that's about it . The story is silly and relies on a lot of coincidences and assumption , it doesn't quite work . I couldn't quite help but think that the story was just an excuse to get as many people naked as possible . The ending feels very rushed , almost as if Franco ran out of money or lost interest . The film looks OK , the photography is decent considering it's a Franco film , as are the locations . I liked the music , in particular the main theme . It's certainly better than most of the Franco films I've seen , it's nowhere near as weird , boring , inept or surreal as some . There's a cheap and sleazy feel to it as well . Difficult to recommend , and I didn't really think too much of it .
" She thinks fellatio is a character in Shakespeare . " Average teen slasher .	Cherry Falls is an American town somewhere in Virginia & starts with a teenage couple Rod Harper ( Jesse Bradford as Jesse Watrouse ) & Stacy Twelfmann ( Bre Blair ) being brutally murdered while parked in some woods . Cherry Falls Sheriff Brent Marken ( Micheal Biehn ) & his Deputy , Mina ( Amanda Anka ) are on the case . Meanwhile his frigid daughter Jody ( Brittany Murphy ) knew the two deceased teenagers & along with the rest of the school is in mourning for them . However it's not too long before the mysterious killer strikes again , this time killing a teenage girl named Annette Duwald ( Clementine Ford ) . The Sheriff want's answers , the only thing the Coroner ( Micheal Harding as Anthony Micheal Harding ) has to tell him is that the victims were virgins & that's the killers signature . The Sheriff calls a meeting at the school to warn the town's parents , Jody & the school reporter Timmy ( Keram Malicki-Sanchez ) overhear the meeting & that the killer is targeting virgins . Timmy goes off on his own & is murdered & Jodi is attacked by the killer but manages to escape with her life . Jody is now the only witness & since she is a virgin herself understandably starts to worry , she decides to do some digging & investigate the killings herself . The only thing she has to go on is a name , Loralee Sherman . Back at school all the pupils have decided the best way to stay safe is to have sex & as a result are planning a ' pop your cherry ' party or orgy , whichever way you want to look at it . As Jody continues to investigate some of Cherry Falls dark secrets start to come out of the closet which gains her some unwanted attention . . . Directed by Goeffrey Wright I really wasn't all that impressed with Cherry Falls . The script by Ken Selden is very much in the Scream ( 1996 ) tradition just without the self parody & in-jokes . In fact Cherry Falls seems to take itself very seriously which is a mistake . The biggest problem I had with Cherry Falls is that it's just so easy to guess the killers identity , for starters Cherry Falls tries to convince the viewer that a woman is behind it by showing the killer with long hair & feminine clothes but goes to great lengths to conceal their face . Well , as soon as I saw that the film deliberately wanted us to believe it was a woman I instinctively knew that it had to be a man in drag , it just had to be so Selden could chuck in a ' twist ' at the end . So once I knew it was a male character I placed my bets on who I thought it was & bingo I was right ! I'm usually awful at predicting the killer in these sorts of things so for me to guess correctly within the first 20 minutes means this isn't exactly brain-busting stuff ! Selden's attempts at red herrings are pretty poor & didn't work on me at all . The sight of the male killer running around in drag at the end had me shaking my head in disbelief , it came across as just plain silly & undoes any sort of tension or atmosphere director Wright might have built up which wasn't exactly a lot , hardly the sort of outfit a hard as nails psycho killer would be seen in , is it ? Cherry Falls also features far too many annoying teenage stereotypes , I found it dull as I just waited for the ' twist ' ending that I just knew was coming & the murders are both few & far between & lack any sort of gore . There are a couple of fairly tame stabbings at the beginning , someone has their head bashed against a door , a guy has his throat cut off screen & we just get a shot of his dead body with some blood on his throat , a quick axe in a head & there is an impalement that's off screen as well . In fact very little gore or violence is shown , yes I know it was because of censor interference but what I'm watching on screen now is more important than what I could have been watching , basically there's no point in crying over spilt milk , this version of Cherry Falls is the one we've ended up with & that's that . The orgy scene at the end is also about as tame as you can imagine . The acting is OK but I didn't really like any of the characters . One more thing I want to mention , Gabriel Mann the guy who played Jody's ex gets to suck Brittany Murphy's toes in quite a cool scene , lucky SOB ! Technically Cherry Falls is excellent & very polished as you would expect from a fairly big budget film . Overall I thought Cherry Falls was an OK time waster at best as it's well made & there's nothing particularly wrong with it I suppose but there's nothing new here at all either & the obviousness of the killers identity really hurts Cherry Falls as it was just far too easy for me to guess the killer & if I can do it anyone can ! There is no gore so the horror & scare elements are severely lacking as the murder scenes are all very choppy & awkward looking . Worth a one time watch on TV or a cheap rental but Cherry Falls certainly isn't a keeper as far as I'm concerned , disappointing . Stick with Scream & it's sequels .
Terrible French cannibal movie .	possible spoilers Nobody makes cannibal films like the italians . This a good case in point . Three crooks , Mario Roberto and a woman , kidnap a young girl Florence Danville . They call in a favor and hide out in a house near a jungle with a guy and his wife . Mario rapes the wife . The guy extracts revenge by leading Mario into the jungle and leaving him there to be eaten by cannibals . The girls parents find out where she is and go looking for her . The remaining crooks leg it into the jungle , hotly pursued by the parents and owners of house . And so it goes on until the cannibals dole out some punishment on the crooks . Inept and poorly made in every department don't waste your money . Theres only a couple of gore scenes in it , and not very well done either . The jungle setting is'nt very convincing with neatly cut grass clearly visible in certain tight shots . The native cannibals themselves are laughable , they have strange 70s styled hair-dos and neatly cut side-burns ! ! ! ! Cannibal Holocaust still rules .
" This sort of stuff doesn't happen in real life , does it ? " I was disappointed .	Crooked House is set in modern day London where history teacher Ben ( Lee Ingleby ) has unearthed an old rusted , decaying door knocker that he has taken to a local museum where the curator ( co-producer & writer Mark Gatiss ) who show's an interest in the knocker says that he believes it came from the infamous now demolished Geap Manor . The curator goes on to say that the Manor has a bad reputation , Ben is intrigued & wants to know more so the curator tells him two ghostly tales all set inside Geap Manor . . . The first of the tales is called ' The Wainscoting ' set in Georgian times during 1786 as rich businessman Joseph Bloxham ( Philip Jackson ) moves into the newly refurbished Geap Manor only to start hearing terrifying sounds coming from inside his brand new wood panelling . . . Next up to be told is ' Something Old ' which is set during 1927 as a swinging costume party takes place in Geap Manor . Young heir to the estate Felix de Momery ( Ian Hallard ) announces his engagement to the beautiful & young Ruth Sykes ( Jennifer Higham ) , soon after Ruth starts to see a mysterious woman dressed as a bride at the party & soon discovers a dark family secret that threatens both her & Felix . . . The curator then turns down the door knocker & Ben leaves . Ben now becomes the center of the third & final story called ' The Knocker ' in which the evil legacy of Geap Manor finally catches up with the present . . . Originally shown here in the UK over three nights as three separate thirty minute episodes Crooked House has also been edited into a feature long omnibus horror anthology with the three stories running concurrently . However you see Crooked House I suppose it amounts to the same thing , it's a Tales from the Crypt ( 1972 ) , Asylum ( 1972 ) or The Vault of Horror ( 1973 ) style horror anthology show in which three different ghost stories revolving around the same Manor house are told by the curator of a museum in the films linking wraparound segments . Each of the stories is set in a different & distinct time period & to be honest things get off to a poor start with the opening story The Wainscoting set in 1786 , this is a forgettable bog standard haunted house story in which the new owner of a property hears ghostly noises & sees the odd ghostly happening before meeting a grim fate . This is pretty clichéd right down to the superstitious locals although I did like the plot revelation that the panelling in Geap Manor was made from wood taken from a set of gallows & the spirits of the men who hanged on it still haunt the wood , it's a potentially neat idea but nothing is done with it & the so-called twist ending in which Bloxham commits suicide by hanging himself is very predictable . Unfortunately things don't really improve with Something Old either , the first twenty odd minutes of this story is a total snooze-fest with the announcement of the engagement , a lot of forgettable dialogue & an odd out-of-place gay sexuality subplot that goes nowhere before a very rushed last ten minutes or so as the script tries to cram in as much exposition as possible about a tragic wedding that still literally haunts the Manor . Again Something Old is very standard stuff & actually feels like a bit of a rip-off of the Amicus horror flick - - And Now the Screaming Starts ! ( 1973 ) which also features a newly wed bride being terrorised by an old family curse at an English Manor house . Things improve considerably with the third & final story called The Knocker which is set during the present & involves Ben himself . There are actually one or two creepy moments in this one including a cool Rosemary's Baby ( 1968 ) moment . The Knocker actually has a couple of neat twist's & a good ending unlike the previous stories & feels the most horror orientated out of the three . None of the three stories are particularly great with the first two being rather poor but as a whole it's watchable I suppose & there are one or two nice moments to be seen & the final twist isn't too bad to be fair . The production values are fine , it looks a bit cheap at times & a little bit too staged but it's alright . Unfortunately there's a distinct lack of atmosphere which is a big problem for a supernatural horror anthology like this , there just aren't enough creepy moments in it . There are a few cheap jump moments like when the soundtrack is silent an alarm or telephone suddenly goes off , you know the sort of fake horror film scare that gets annoying . There's also a lack of any gore or violence , despite being shown fairly late at night this could probably pass for a PG rating . The acting is OK from a reasonable cast . Crooked House as either three separate parts or one big one edited together is nothing more than an average supernatural anthology show / film that didn't do much for me at all . Only the third & final story is worth watching to be honest & a lack of genuine scares , twist's , imagination & gore ultimately sink it without trace .
Bad , but not that bad . . .	Class of 1999 II : The Substitute starts like any other ordinary morning at at an everyday American high-school except that they have a new substitute teacher named John Bolen ( Sasha Mitchell ) who is in fact a reprogrammed military robot . A reprogrammed military robot who likes to kill off the unruly students & when local school thug Sanders ( Gregory West ) & his scumbag gang starts to hassle his fellow teacher Jenna McKensie ( Caitlin Dulany ) he takes a very dim view of it . . . Directed by Spiro Razatos I thought Class of 1999 : The Substitute was an OK time waster , I thought this sequel to the original Class of 1999 ( 1990 ) was going to be awful & in that respect it didn't disappoint & I suppose it was but not quite a bad as I thought it was going to be . The script by Mark Sevi moves along at a fair pace although after the opening 20 or so minutes it leaves the classroom & descends into a drama as a teacher is harassed because she is going to testify against a student & this is what the bulk of the film consists of rather than the classroom action & violence of the original before it ends with a paint-ball contest gone wrong , in fact I can only remember one scene set in a classroom during the whole film . The character's & narrative could have been better too , for instance early on in the film Bolen kills the schools principal & this is never mentioned again which seemed odd considering he was the principal & therefore a pretty important person & the kid that he recognises & kills for reasons we never discover . There is also a distinct lack of exploitative elements which don't help , overall it wasn't as bad as I thought it was going to be but it's still pretty bad all the same . Director Spiro does OK , there's some low budget but reasonable action scenes but I'd liked to have had some gore as there isn't any as it stands at the moment . There are a few OK one-liners as Bolen dispatches his victims . Technically Class of 1999 : The Substitute is alright , there are one or two nice shots but nothing outstanding . The acting isn't up to much I'm afraid . Class of 1999 : The Substitute isn't a particularly great film , in fact if I was pushed I'd say it was a pretty crap one but it did keep me watching until the end & at least it wasn't as bad as I had been expecting .
Early horror gore film which has a certain charm .	A woman taking a bath is stabbed in the eye by mad Egyptian cultist Fuad Ramses ( Mal Arnold ) who runs a shop called ' Fuad Ramses exotic caterer ' . He then cuts her leg off with a machete , the water in the bath remains remarkably blood free , he puts her leg in a bag and leaves . Detective Pete Thornton ( Thomas Wood or William Kerwin , whatever his real name is ) and his Captain , Frank ( Scott H . Hall ) are both baffled by a series of brutal murders of young women who have each had a body part removed . Unfortunately these guys aren't too bright and claim they don't have any clues as to who the killer is , even though Ramses commits his crimes without gloves and in broad daylight . Mrs . Dorothy Fremont ( Lyn Bolton ) visits Ramses shop and hires him to prepare the food for a special party for her daughter Suzette ( Connie Mason ) . More victims turn up , a girl on a beach has her brains removed , while another unwilling donor has her tongue torn out . The police ( all two of them ! ) are still totally clueless and baffled . Ramses plans to resurrect an ancient Egyptian goddess named ' Ishtar ' . As his plan nears completion he needs one final willing sacrifice , and guess what ? Who better than pretty , young Suzette ? ! Her only hope is that the police stop him before he can conduct his ritualistic ' Blood Feast ' ! Directed by Herschell Gordon Lewis on his usual budget of next to nothing . Blood Feast is commonly regarded as the first ' gore ' film ever made . That may be so but it doesn't make it any good , does it ? Poor in just about every department , the acting is all over the place . Either people are just plain awful or overact like mad , Thomas Wood's surname sums up his acting style very well ! Scott H . Hall , Connie Mason and the guy from the beach whose girlfriend had her brains hacked out are just plain terrible . Mal Arnold as Ramses overacts wildly , staring into the camera and delivering his lines like you won't believe . You really have to see these performances to believe them . Photography , sets , sound , music and special effects are all poor . Talking of the effects there's plenty of them , their fun in a bad way , but not very convincing . The tongue Ramses pulls out of one victims mouth is about a foot long ! The script by Allison Louise Downe is at least pacey and thankfully short , the film clocks in at a modest 67 minutes . There is also a great line at the end which I loved , after Ramses is killed in a waste disposal truck Frank the police Captain says " he died a fitting death for the garbage he was ! " . These cops are the most stupid in film history , or at least they come very close . Their logic and thought process in regard to the murders and trying to solve them is absolutely hilarious . These films hold a certain fascination for horror fans like myself but are very difficult to recommend to casual viewers , but I did have some fun watching it , and it has a certain silly , goofy and almost innocent charm .
Average by-the-numbers teen slasher .	Slumber Party Massacre III starts on a beach where Jackie Cassidy ( Keely Christian ) tells her friends that her parents are away & that they should come over to her place & have a slumber party . Sarah ( Devon Jenkin ) is given the task of getting in the food but as she gets in her car she is brutally murdered . . . That night all the girls meet up , drink , laugh & strip in front of each other as three guys turn up . However someone else much more unwelcome decides to gatecrash the party , a brutal killer is at large & intends to slaughter them all before the night is over . . . Directed by Sally Mattison ( at least we now know a woman can make a horror film just as badly as any bloke ) I thought Slumber Party Massacre III ( although the version I watched had the title A Stab in the Dark ) was a dull , predictable , unoriginal teen slasher that does nothing to try & distinguish itself in an already over populated & limited sub-genre . The script by Catherine Cyran is drawn out , it has the usual cardboard character's that could have come straight out of any other slasher film , it has no reasonable explanation behind the killers motives , it gives the killer identity away far too early & then it's just a boring precession until the end & to add insult to injury it has a fairly low body count . There is nothing in Slumber Party Massacre III that any horror fan wouldn't have already seen a 100 time before in just about any other slasher . The film takes itself far too seriously , it's incredibly dull & very slow at times . Director Mattison doesn't do a thing to try & liven things up , it's very flatly shot , it's utterly forgettable & throughly dull . There's no atmosphere & I just kept thinking to myself simply leave the house , run away , go to a neighbour's , call someone but just do SOMETHING instead of just standing there waiting to be killed . There's a decent kill at the start where someone has a drill shoved through their body but apart from that there's not much gore here , there's a few more drill murders , someone is impaled on a ' For Sale ' house sign & in the films best kill someone is taking a bath & the killer drops a vibrating dildo in the water to electrocute her , death by dildo ! There's a bit of nudity & sex as well but it doesn't really help that much . Slumber Party Massacre III is fairly well made , special effects are OK & it's quite well lit but it's all rather bland . The acting was poor throughout , don't give up your day jobs girls . . . Slumber Party Massacre III is nothing to get excited about , frankly I was pretty bored & felt liked I'd seen it all before . Much worse than either the original The Slumber Party Massacre ( 1982 ) or it's sequel the rather impressive & fun Slumber Party Massacre II ( 1987 ) so watch one of those instead .
Annoying killer / thriller / horror film .	Nightstalker starts in ' Los Angeles 1985 ' where one fateful night a man ( Bret Roberts ) has a bad foot fetish experience with a prostitute named Cherry ( Roxanne Day ) so he decides to don some black leather gloves & kill a couple of Hispanic people in they're own home . The next morning & Hispanic cops Officer's Gabriella Martinez ( Roselyn Sanchez ) & Frank Luis ( Danny Trejo ) are called to the house when relatives become worried , the two Officer's enter the house & find the mutilated & violated corpses . The killer seems to target the Hispanic community in Los Angeles & as more of them are brutally murdered Officer Martinez is promoted to homicide detective , more to appease to & calm the Hispanic community down than for her actual detective skills but what she doesn't know won't hurt her , right ? The senseless & brutal murders continue , can Martinez make a useful contribution to the case & prove her male counterparts wrong ? I'll give you three guesses & the first two don't count . . . ( not that you'll need them anyway ! ) Written , co-produced & directed by Chris Fisher Nightstalker is the latest in a long line of low budget crap that I've sat through recently , honestly sometimes I wonder why I even bother I really do . Anyway , never let it be said I don't give a film a chance & I did at least make it all way through it . Even though his name is never mentioned Nightstalker is apparently based on the crimes of serial killer Robert Ramirez who killed members of the Los Angeles Hispanic community back in the 80's , having lived in England all my life I have never heard of Ramirez or his crimes so I really can't say how accurately this depicts them . The script throws in a bald headed demon that ' tells ' the nightstalker to kill , the fictional cop Martinez to try & have a central character & add a few melodramatics to the proceedings & by all accounts has very little to do with the real Ramirez & has no real regard or intent for factual recreation . I can understand filmmakers wanting to change a few things around & spice things up a bit but in this case Nightstalker just comes across like a really bad cheapo low budget horror . It moves along at a fair pace & I didn't fall asleep ( it was quite late too ) so I have to give it that but overall I can't exactly heap praise on Nightstalker as it's simply not very good & ultimately that's the bottom line I'm afraid . I also take offence at the notion that he killed because of his foot fetish , even if it was unintentional they show him acting out a fantasy with a prostitute just before he kills his first victims which clearly sends some sort of message out , doesn't it ? Director Fisher turns in one of the most annoying film to watch I've sat through , his use of gimmicky editing & MTV style editing & manipulation is irritating to say the least . From stupid time-lapse photography , fast forward , hi-speed , low-speed , blurriness , jerky hand held camera shots & constant drab low level lighting set to the most awful rock tracks you have a film which may literally give it's audience a head ache . These annoying flashy sequences are really unnecessary as proved by the fact the films most effective scene is when these processes aren't used . Forget about any decent violence , a few blood stained murder scenes & a couple of eyeballs in a box , that's it . Technically Nightstalker is OK apart from those annoying editing tricks , according to the IMDb Nightstalker was edited in the editor's living room & that it was shot in a mere 16 days . Neither of these revelations come as any real surprise to me & 16 days ? What took them so long ! ? The acting was OK but did anyone else notice Trejo's moustache ? The one side is fine but one half of the other half was shaved off , he literally only had three quarters of his moustache ! Is this a fashion thing ? Pay close attention when he & Sanchez are talking outside her house near the end , you'll see what I mean . . . Nightstalker is a pretty bad film when all said & done , it's as simple & straight forward as that . There are much better films out there although as I said at least it kept me watching to the bitter end which is something I suppose .
Rubbishy sixth installment of a very tired franchise that was never that good to begin with .	Halloween : The Curse of Michael Myers starts as mass murderer Michael Myers ( George P . Wilbur ) last remaining blood relative Jamie Lloyd ( J . C . Brandy ) gives birth in the candle lit basement belonging to a group of dubious character's who worship Michael because he is some sort of druid incarnation of evil & these turkeys protect him & perform all sorts of dodgy rituals & you just know this film is going to be crap from this opening sequence . Anyway , a kind hearted druid nurse ( Lee Ju Chew ) gives Jamie her baby back & lets them escape but the main man himself Michael Myers is in hot pursuit , I have no idea where he came from or how he knew what was going on but hey I guess the screenwriters thought we wouldn't care ( they were right ) . Michael ends up killing Jamie but discovering that she hid her baby somewhere en-route , since all Michael wants to do is kill all his relatives ( don't laugh I feel like this all the time ! ) for various preposterous reasons he is determined to head back to Haddonfield to kill the folks in his old house including a cousin of Laurie Strode , Kara ( Marianne Hagan ) & hunt down Jamie's baby even though he couldn't have a clue where it is , as luck would have it Tommy Doyle ( Paul Rudd ) the guy across the street , who also has a tenuous link to the original as he was a babysitter or something , found Jamie's baby & has taken it back home where Michael is lurking not far away across the street . . . Directed by Joe Chappelle I thought Halloween : The Curse of Michael Myers was a boring & confusing entry in the Halloween franchise that currently numbers 9 & should have stopped at Halloween III : Season of the Witch ( 1982 ) which at least tried to be different & original . The script by Daniel Farrands is an absolute mess & when you consider the various production problems that took place it's no surprise , for instance the script apparently went through 11 drafts ( & they still ended up with this ? ! ) , Donald Pleasence died before the film was released & many of his scene were edited out , the usual ' creative differences ' between director , producer & studio & really bad test screenings prompted re-shoots & heavy re-editing . The whole sorry situation has mess written all over it , the stupid ideas about druid cults , star constellation's , Michaels origins & lots of unnecessary nonsense that I suppose was included to try & stretch the flimsy series out even more although ironically the next film in the series Halloween H20 : 20 Years Later ( 1998 ) totally ignored Holloween : The Curse of Michael Myers & it's absurd ideas . The film moves along at a fair pace , there are a few decent scenes when taken individually but as a whole the film really is a mess & it looks like it was pieced together using outtakes . Oh & since when do Hospitals leave machetes lying around ? Director Chappelle has a nice style going on here , cool neon blues as lightening flash , some good angles & camera moves means that it's a fine looking film . Unfortunately this means that the film looks very staged , one of the reasons why the original Halloween ( 1978 ) was effective was because of it's simplicity . There isn't much gore , someone is impaled on some farm machinery , an exploding head , a slit throat & a few spurts of blood . Most of the character's feel very secondary & things are never rounded off with any satisfaction . With a budget of about $5 , 000 , 000 it has that Hollywood polish & it looks good throughout . The acting isn't up to much but at least there are no rap ' stars ' in it , Pleasence looks really old & disinterested ( much like the audience by the time this thing finishes ) . Halloween : The Curse of Michael Myers is not for me , maybe there are people out there who love it & that's fine but for me it's a definite miss . Not particularly recommended & for die-hard Halloween fans only . According to the IMDb's ' Trivia Section ' many of the cast & crew were angry at all the changes , problems & re-shoots with them vowing never to make another Halloween film again ( you know what I'm going to say ) , well we all have to be grateful for small mercies I suppose !
Average slasher .	Sorority House Massacre II starts as five young & attractive female college students , Janey ( Dana Bentley ) , Jessica ( Melissa Moore ) , Linda ( Gail Harris as Robyn Harris ) , Kimberly ( Stacia Zhivago ) & Suzanne ( Michelle Verran ) , move into their new sorority house . However , as Janey explains , she managed to get the house so cheap because of the notorious history that surrounds it . Janey goes on to say that house belonged to Clive Hokstedter & was the setting for a series of grisly murders five years earlier in which several young & attractive female college students were butchered by Hokstedter . . . As the girls explore their new sorority house they discover an Ouija board & Jessica has the bright idea to hold a séance because it might be good for a laugh , these people deserve to die ! They try to contact the spirit of Hokstedter but give up when things become spooky , as a violent thunder storm rages outside the girls decide to bed down for the night but they are soon to discover that they are not alone as a homicidal maniac starts to kill the girls one-by-one . Is it the vengeful spirit of Hokstedter , maybe it's the weird next door neighbour Orville Ketchum ( Peter Spellos ) or perhaps it's someone , or indeed something , else . . . Casted & directed by Jim Wynorski , according to the IMDb wisely hiding under the pseudonym Arch Stanton , Sorority House Massacre II is another low budget conveyor belt production to come from the Roger Corman owned New Concorde production company & didn't particularly impress me , strangely this is the third film I've seen this week to include footage from The Slumber Party Massacre ( 1982 ) the other's being Slaughter Studios ( 2004 ) & Slumber Party Massacre II . The script by Mark Thomas McGee , James B . Rogers & Bob Sheridan plays more like a sequel to The Slumber Party Massacre than Slumber Party Massacre II does , it is as basic a slasher as I've ever seen , as soon as the film starts it introduces the disposable cast members , sticks them in the requisite isolated location & then pads things out a bit with boring dialogue before the killer shows up to kill a few of them until the stupid ' he's not quite dead yet ' type twist ending that is there for the purposes of a sequel , it really is as simple & straightforward as that . The killings aren't that original , the killers identity is meant to keep you guessing until the shock climax but you'd have to be pretty dumb not to work it out & since the script can't be bothered to throw in any sort of red-herrings it becomes painfully obvious . Having said that if your looking for a slasher then you could do worse than Sorority House Massacre II as it moves along at a fair pace , there are no real sub-plots to bog things down & it delivers what one would expect from a slasher . Hack director Wynorski has over 60 low budget horror / sex films to his name & Sorority House Massacre II was one of his first . There is one scene that still bugs me even now , Janey is attacked from behind & the film cuts to a white wall with a silhouette of a hook coming down , Janey is heard screaming & a gallon of blood splatters on the wall , with me ? Right , now the very next scene within seconds of Janey being killed & one of her friends has come looking for her & looks in the kitchen where the walls are absolutely perfect . I'm sorry but you could not clean that amount of blood off a wall , & presumably the floor to , in the space of a few seconds without any form of cleaning aid , could you ? It's totally impossible & that bit really annoys me even now . The rest of the film isn't exactly brilliant either & Wynorski makes sure his female cast have the least amount of clothes on possible as they spend most of the film either running around in their underwear or naked . The gore is tame , a few blood spurts , a few knife wounds & someone has their foot trapped in a bear trap . There is a fair amount of nudity though , if that's your thing . Technically Sorority House Massacre II was obviously made on the cheap & it shows . The acting is poor by everyone involved especially Spellos as the weird fat neighbour , there are a few porn stars in here as well if that sort of thing interests you . . . Sorority House Massacre II is an OK slasher , it does what one would want but it's not that well made , the gore is tame & the story is a bit to basic . Die-hard slasher fans might like it but in an already over saturated sub-genre it does nothing to distinguish itself from far better competition .
Still not enjoying it .	Dead Set ( # 1 . 3 ) starts as Kelly ( Jaime Winstone ) manages to get to the pharmacy in the supermarket to steal the medical supplies needed to help the bitten Angel ( Chizzy Akudolu ) back at the Big Brother house . However while looting the pharmacy & supermarket for supplies two armed policemen show up . Meanwhile Pippa ( Kathleen McDermott ) & Patrick ( Andy Nyman ) are still trapped inside a room by a zombie Davina McCall as they all fight for survival as the flesh eating zombies continue to take over & at the Big Brother house Angel finally dies . . . The third episode of five of this British produced zombie TV mini-series which is also available as a complete two plus hour edit I have to say yet again I remain firmly unimpressed with this despite seeing so many positive comments about it . Maybe I have horror fatigue or maybe I am just not getting it or maybe , just maybe it's total crap . Personally I'd go for the latter of those options . At only twenty five minutes in length this moves along at a good pace but not that much is going on , the script has settled down into following three sets of human character's , Riq & that woman , the producer & Pippa & Kelly & the house-mates & I find it all rather boring actually . The excursion to the supermarket is alright & adds a bit of variety but I don't understand the two policemen or why they are so unhelpful & aggressive to them , I just don ' get it & there's no logic to it either . I am really starting to hate everyone in this , I really wish the zombies would just kill the lot of them although Patrick the producer is still quite funny & the bit when he takes a dump complete with fart noises is this episodes highlight , or lowlight depending on your point of view . Some of the character's are really stupid , have none of them ever seen a zombie film before ? If someone is bitten they turn into a zombie themselves , it's not a difficult concept to understand so why do they continue to insist on trying to help those who are injured & end up getting themselves killed ? Episode two ended on a bit of a cliffhanger while this one ends much more slowly & quietly . The main aspect of Dead Set that I hate is the way it's shot , it has this bleak grey colourless tone to the picture & that shaky hand held camcorder cinematography is truly awful , awful , awful . The scene when the Angel zombie gets dumped into the jacuzzi is so badly shot & edited it's literally impossible to see what has happened . Then the sight of this zombie flapping around in a jacuzzi that is no more than two feet deep not being able to get out is a ridiculous & annoying sight indeed . I am amazed by comments saying Dead Set is gory , for a start you can barely see any blood or gore because of the awful photography but it's not gory anyway , there's a guy with a bitten neck , the usual blood splatter , a pair of scissors is stuck in a zombies head & that's it for this episode . Even the scene when the two policemen are killed & the zombies crowd round to eat them nothing & I mean nothing is shown as it just cuts away when we could have seen some cool intestine eating . If this was a George A . Romero living dead flick he would have shown it . Dead Set ( # 1 . 3 ) is another totally forgettable episode in a largely forgettable & clichéd TV mini-series that I am hating even more with each passing episode . I honestly don't care if I watch episode four or not but I will since it's free .
More of the same .	Dead Set ( # 1 . 2 ) starts as Kelly ( Jaime Winstone ) the lone surviving Big Brother production team member takes refuge in the Big Brother house with the Big Brother contestants one of whom was bitten by a zombie in an attack . Bleeding badly Kelly realises that the house-mate is about to die & become one of the flesh eating living dead unless medical supplies can be found , Kelly know's of a pharmacy nearby & together with the other house-mates devise a plan to get the medical supplies they need . . . The second episode of this British produced zombie horror 28 Days Later . . . ( 2002 ) rip-off with the sole gimmick of being set in the Big Brother reality show house has now moved on from the initial 45 minute opening episode to the shorter 25 minutes ones although there is also a complete edit of all the episodes cut together as well just to confuse things . Personally I am in two minds about whether Dead Set would work better as a full feature length film or a five part TV mini-series since as one big chunk it would probably flow better but unfortunately it's pretty bad at times & I honestly don't think I could sit through over two hours of this in one sitting so cutting it up into five separate parts has actually helped me to get through it since I have to be honest & say I'm not really enjoying it that much . While this episode feels quite short nothing much happens , the old zombie film cliché of one of the group has been bitten & is about to change into a zombie which leads to some conflict between the character's takes up the majority of this episodes duration but apart from that this is just people stuck inside the Big Brother house while some zombie roam around outside . The ending to this episode is very abrupt & is supposed to be some sort of cliffhanger but if I am honest I couldn't care less if I saw episode three or not . Plenty of swearing & plenty of running around just makes things even worse . The Big Brother angle has been completely abandoned , it was all a gimmick after all just as I had predicted & the Big Brother house-mates didn't even register with me & watching this episode less than a day after the first one I couldn't remember any of the house-mates names or who they were at all . Like episode one the shaky hand held camera is back in force , again you can barely see what's going on during the zombie scenes & the cinematography also has this grey , bleak overcast colour tone which makes the whole thing look very flat , colourless , bland & boring as most of the colour has been sucked out of the picture . Again the gore is nothing to get excited about , a zombie is shot in the head off screen & a blood splatter is seen on a window , there's a leg wound as a woman has been bitten & that's it or that's it as far as you can actually see through the jerky annoying hand held camera style cinematography . Another absolute pain to sit through . I am also noticing how cheap Dead Set looks as there are no shots set in London itself & most of the action takes place on country roads or in the Big Brother house . Dead Set ( # 1 . 2 ) is a less than impressive second episode to not much better opening episode , I really hate the way this is shot & the story so far is just one long zombie film cliché . I really hope episode three is better .
Not impressed at all .	Dead Set ( # 1 . 5 ) starts as Riq ( Riz Ahmed ) manages to reach the Big Brother house where his girlfriend Kelly ( Jaime Winstone ) , the remaining Big Brother house-mates & Patrick ( Andy Nyman ) the producer are all hold up from the hordes of flesh eating zombies outside that have seemingly taken over the world . The majority of the group feel they should stay put but Patrick wants to make a break for it in a van , unfortunately to do so would require opening the gates & letting the zombies into the Big Brother compound which doesn't sit well with anyone else . . . This was the fifth & final episode of Dead Set a British produced TV mini series rip-off of 28 Days Later . . . ( 2002 ) & just about every George A . Romero zombie flick going that some people appear to have enjoyed although I think that it's been pretty dire stuff & this less than enthralling final episode has done nothing to change my mind . The whole Big Brother angle amounts to nothing more than the setting while the supposed social commentary & relevance are absolutely woeful , to me the final message that Dead Set seems to want to leave it's viewers with is that if you watch Big Brother your a mindless zombie . Gee , talk about insulting your audience . This episode reeks of Day of the Dead ( 1985 ) with the fenced compound that one of the human survivors opens up & the place is overrun with the things as the few remaining humans run & try to stay alive just like in Day of the Dead & even the way Patrick is killed & behaves is the mirror image of the way Captain Rhodes is offed in Day of the Dead only not as gory or memorable . The majority of episode five is nothing more than arguments between the various surviving humans & the zombies don't feature until the final ten minutes or so . I am also somewhat surprised that there is never any sort of reason given for the zombies or what was turning people into zombies . All in all I didn't like it . Again I have to mention the shaky hand held cinematography which I just hate , I hate the way Dead Set looks & is filmed . The gore levels are low despite what anyone says , when you can actually see what's going on ( which isn't very often ) Patrick is ripped open & there's one or two blurry scenes of flesh eating but nothing else . The one that does stand out about Dead Set is the amount of profanity & that is why this will get adult ratings rather than the mild violence levels . Dead Set ( # 1 . 5 ) is another episode that I didn't like in a five part mini series that I equally didn't like . Overall I would give Dead Set a disappointing stars across it's five episodes of clichéd annoying as hell tedium .
More of the same .	Dead Set ( # 1 . 4 ) starts as Riq ( Riz Ahmed ) sees his girlfriend Kelly ( Jaime Winstone ) on the telly in the Big Brother house safe & well & decides he has to get to her , Alex ( Liz May Brice ) isn't keen on the idea but has little choice to agree . By a strange coincidence the house Riq & Alex are trapped in actually has a boat round the back & a river which goes right past the Big Brother house which is sort of lucky really . Kelly & the house-mates manage to rescue Patrick ( Andy Nyman ) & Pippa ( Kathleen McDermott ) who killed the Davina McCall zombie & get them back to the relative safety of the Big Brother house . Now they must try to figure out a way to escape the zombie plague & reach safety . . . This British produced zombie horror TV mini-series was originally shown as five separate parts over a week but it is also available as one long two hour plus edit which I honestly don't think I could sit through , I mean over two straight hours of this rubbish would be hard to sit through . Like the previous couple of episodes the script follows three separate sets of character's although the plot is trying to bring them all together . I have actually thought Dead Set has been a rather dumb & clichéd zombie horror series so far & I would say this is the first episode where the script tries to say anything relevant at all . Patrick has a rant about how he worked he way up to his position of success & that wanting a quick fix to become famous by appearing on a show like Big Brother is just , well , wrong . To be honest I am pretty sure that sitting through over an hour & a half of Dead Set to get to that momentous social message has not been time well spent . At all . Once again at only twenty five minutes in length at least it's short but I didn't enjoy it so what's the point ? The character's are still awful , some of the decision making is awful , every second word is a profanity & why don't the zombies try to smash windows , open the doors or climb over fences which are barely six foot high ? There's a little passage of dialogue which is pinched from Dawn of the Dead ( 1978 ) as the Big Brother house-mates ponder why the zombies seem to be coming to the Big Brother house . After episode three's dull ending there's anther cliffhanger style ending to episode four although it doesn't make me want to watch episode five at all really . I have mentioned in all of the previous comments I have written for the other episodes & again here the cinematography is awful & I hate the way this looks . After complaining about the lack of gore this episode is a little better , the Davina McCall zombie is killed with a pole stuck through the back of her head , there's some blood splatter & a gory bit at the end when Patrick cuts a dead body up with a kitchen knife removing it's insides & there's also a severed hand seen too . But generally speaking it's still fairly tame , when Alex kills the zombie that has bitten her nothing is shown & when Riq kills her before she turns again absolutely nothing is shown . As a seasoned horror film fan I have not been impressed with the gore levels in this so far & you can't see half of it anyway because of the shaky cinematography . Dead Set ( # 1 . 4 ) is another lacklustre episode to a clichéd , predictable & annoying series that I am glad I didn't spend any money on . Can't say I am looking forward to the fifth & final episode but I'll watch it out of commitment rather than anticipation , I mean I have come this far why give up now ?
Another Sci Fi Channel bad CGI stuffed ' creature feature ' .	Supergator is set in Hawaii where a group of vulcanologist's are studying a volcano near a holiday resort , they think it might be about to blow . Professor Scott Kinney ( Brad Johnson ) , one of his senior graduates Ryan Houston ( Josn Kelly ) are sent in to liaise with resident volcano watchers Max ( Dave Ruskjer ) & his assistant Alexandra Stevens ( Mary Alexander Stiefvater ) & compare notes , the sort of things vulcanologist's do . They decide to set some seismograph's up near the base of the volcano to measure it's activity , the group set off but hadn't counted on there being a 30 foot genetically created ' supergator ' that kills & eats anyone it comes across & it's heading straight for the holiday resort where it has plenty of tasty humans to pick from . . . King of the rip-off cheapies Roger Corman strikes again , this straight-to-video Sci Fi Channel creature feature was executive produced by Corman while it was co-written & directed by Brian Clyde & isn't anything particularly special although it passes the time harmlessly enough if you don't expect too much . The script by Clyde , Frances Doel & Jeffrey Sturges is pretty clichéd & very standard for this type of film , basically there's some form of huge man eating monster / creature running around eating the less important members of the cast & when all said & done that's all there is to Supergator really . The film moves along at a reasonable pace , I certainly wouldn't call it slow or boring & there are a few unintentionally funny moments . I must also congratulate the makers for such a high body count & surprisingly a lot of the cast die even some I was expecting to make it . The reason behind the supergator itself is your standard ' genetic experiment gone horribly wrong ' type scenario , you know I was sitting there watching this & I was thinking to myself why would a bunch of scientists create a huge prehistoric alligator ? It just doesn't make any sense to me , what were they hoping to prove or find out that they couldn't achieve by genetically creating a docile , plant eating dinosaur that could have been easily controlled & relied on not to eat every person it came across ? I don't know , then again maybe I'm just thinking about this too much . If you like cheesy creature features then Supergator isn't all that bad but it's nothing new or special . Director Clyde doesn't do much to liven things up , some of the scenery is quite nice but the direction & the set-ups aren't that great . It seems just about every tourist on Hawaii is traipsing through this particularly patch of forest where the supergator lives , there are random people like models , dope heads , fishermen , lovers , waterfall watchers , random guy's driving jeeps & vulcanologist's walking around . The gore is disappointing , there is one severed body part , someone is decapitated otherwise there are just quick shots of people covered in fake blood . The CGI computer effects are poor , the supergator itself looks OK but it isn't animated that well & every time it attacks someone a fake puppet head & jaws are used & there are close-ups of it's blood stained mouth & teeth yet when the film switches back to the CGI supergator it's mouth & teeth are perfectly clean . What does it do ? Whip out a handkerchief & wipe itself ? There is also a fair amount of CGI blood which looks pretty fake , almost like a solid red cloud . With a supposed budget of about $250 , 000 this was pretty damned low budget & in a way they did OK with the meagre amount they had but it's still not a very good film . Actually shot on location in Hawaii apparently . The acting isn't anything particularly memorable . Kelly McGillis of Top Gun ( 1986 ) fame plays a scientist & gets eaten . Supergator is an OK time waster & that's being kind to it , it didn't impress me that much but it kept me relatively quiet for 100 odd minutes . I've definitely seen better but then again I've definitely seen worse .
Another Nu Image creature feature , average at best .	Kraken : Tentacles of the Deep is set in a stretch of Ocean called the Desolation Passage where marine archaeologist Nicole ( Victoria Pratt ) & her crew are searching for a couple of legendary Greek artifacts , a ceremonial Trojan war mask & a hugely valuable Opal . Unfortunately Nicole & her crew are hampered by a few unforeseen problems , first off is Maxwell Odemus ( Jack Scalia ) the son of a Greek mafia gangster who wants the two relics returned to Greece by any means necessary & there's also the small fact that a gigantic squid is guarding the precious bounty & basically kills anyone who goes near it . Can Nicole beat the odds , find the treasure & become famous or will she & her crew end up as squid food ? Directed by Tibor Takacs this is yet another by-the-numbers Nu Image produced creature feature the likes of which I'm sick of . The script by Sean Keller & Brian D . Young has all the usual clichés & plot devices these creature features do , there's the beautiful female scientist , a rugged male hero type , there's the disposable character's who are included for no other reason other than to be killed & of course there's the assortment of bad guys who want something valuable that some mutated badly CGI animated creature of some sort is either guarding or is just generally in the way of . There really isn't anything original , fresh or new about Kraken : Tentacles of the Deep at all & quite frankly it's a bit of a chore to sit through , there are already loads of these bad killer creature feature type films out there & this doesn't do the sub genre's reputation any favours . I sat there thinking I'd already this dozens of times before & I'm right , scientists look for something , get attacked by monster , hero kills monster & saves girl at the end , that's all there is too it . The character's are bland & forgettable as is the dialogue , the giant squid isn't in it nearly enough & doesn't do anything particularly special when it does make an appearance . It's all very predictable & isn't even unintentionally funny , if you really like these creature features , someone out there has to or they wouldn't keep making them , then you'll probably enjoy Kraken : Tentacles of the Deep to some extent but for those of us who are really bored of this type of film I urge you to steer well clear of it . Director Takacs was once a decent genre filmmaker with titles like The Gate ( 1987 ) & I , Madman ( 1989 ) but he seems to have gone down the creature feature route with dreck like this , Rats ( 2003 ) , Mansquito ( 2005 ) , Ice Spiders ( 2007 ) & his latest epic MegaSnake ( 2007 ) ! This made-for-TV film is quite well made , the giant squid CGI computer effects aren't as bad as I had expected although that's not to say they are good . The version I saw was titled Deadly Waters which is what it was shot under , apparently the Sci-Fi Channel's website held a competition for fans to come up with a better title & I guess Kraken : Tentacles of the Deep won which I suppose is why the word ' Kraken ' is never used in the film itself . Forget about any gore , there's a severed leg , some blood & a cool decapitation by fishing line but nothing else that graphic or worth mentioning . I'm also sorry to inform you that there is no nudity at all . The supposed budget of about $2 , 100 , 000 doesn't sound too bad actually so it's a surprise that overall the film is rather flat , bland & forgettable . The acting isn't great from nobody worth mentioning . Kraken : Tentacles of the Deep is another creature feature that is virtually indistinguishable from any other , catch it on the Sci-Fi Channel for sure but don't go wasting your money on it .
" Alright fellows , it's kick-off time . " Bad 80's action that has a certain entertainment value .	Silent Assassins must be seen to be believed . Here's a quick run down of the clichés , erm sorry I mean plot . Wise cracking cop Sam Kettle ( Sam J . Jones ) & his partner Danny ( Dan Beder ) are on a bust to capture big time ex-CIA part criminal all psychopath & all round evil bloke Kendrick ( Gustav Vintas ) but unfortunately Danny gets himself killed . Cliché # 1 , unorthodox cop now has a personal vendetta against a major criminal who killed his partner . Cliché # 2 , said cop has to track said criminal down . Cliché # 3 , even if it costs him his marriage to Sara ( Linda Blair ) which is a breaking point as it is . Kendrick , his sexy side kick Miss Amy ( Rebecca Ferratti ) kidnap Government biological scientist Terrence London ( Bill Erwin ) & an innocent little girl named Joanna ( Joanna Chong ) . Cliché # 4 , cop becomes saddled with innocent parties uncle , Jun Kim ( Jun Chong ) who is instantly transformed into the obligatory fish-out-of-water character who through spending time together befriends cop whose partner was killed & now works alone . Cliché # 5 , despite an entire police force on the case super cop & an ordinary member of the public manage to track evil bad guys down . Cliché # 6 , bad guys try to kill cop & new partner but fail miserably . Cliché # 7 , cop & new found best friend kill all the bad guys with guns that never run out of ammo & don't even get scratched . I could go on & on forever but hopefully you get the idea . . . Directed by Doo-yong Lee & Scott Thomas I actually didn't mind Silent Assassins too much . The script by Will Gates ( I hope that's not some sort of joke ) & Lin Ada isn't going to win any prizes for originality or dramatic content but to it's credit it moves along like a rocket & is quite funny if approached in the right manner & frame of mind . Silent Assassins obviously had zero budget & the fights look a little cheap but they are violent & contain scenes of people having their hands chopped off , being disembowelled , someone is blown up & a brief decapitation with a Samurai sword , while none of this looks particularly impressive it's quite bloody . There is also a torture scene where Dr . London has spikes inserted under his finger nails , ouch ! Forget about Linda Blair getting in on the action despite the artwork on the box where she is shown in black holding a large gun , she is purely to add dramatic impact ( yeah right ! ) & some personal angst between the fights . The fights are OK at best , their reasonably choreographed & to their credit they use lots of weaponry like swords , Freddy Krueger type gloves , knives , guns , rocket launchers ( that you don't have to reload ) & various axes . The filmmakers managed to chuck in a couple of cheap explosions as well . There is a funny bit where Sam glues a mans mouth shut because he was following him & another one when Sam is interviewing a top Government scientist & on his office door it say ' Private No Admittance ' written in blue ink on a piece of paper sellotaped to the door ! Hardly a top scientist's office ! On a technical level the film is rough , it looks like it was shot wherever they could get permission , the music is terrible & sounds as if it was recorded in a tin shed . The cinematography is static & dull as is the whole film generally speaking . Acting wise Jones is OK & makes for a likable enough hero , Blair is awful as is everyone else . Good for a few laughs but not much else especially as it can get a bit nasty at times , having said that it provided a certain charm & had some basic entertainment value . Still , probably best give this one a miss if you can .
" Just because I drive a truck does not make me a truck driver . " Very pedestrian thriller , pun intended !	Roadgames is set in the Austrailian outback & beings late one night as solitary truck driver Patrick ' Pat ' Quid ( Stacy Keach ) rolls up to the last motel in town in his semi with his faithful pet Dingo in tow Boswell . Before he has a chance to rent a room a green van pulls up & a man ( Grant Page ) & woman ( Angelica La Bozzetta as Angie La Bozzetta ) get out also looking for a room for the night , Pat distinctly remembers the woman as a hitchhiker he passed earlier in the day . The man & woman take the last room so Pat has to spend the night in his cab before he heads over to a local meat processing factory to pick a load of pork up that he has to deliver to Perth . Early next morning when pat wakes up he notices the man looking through the curtains of his room as the rubbish bins are emptied , Pat thinks it's strange but doesn't give it much thought . Once loaded up with meat Pat hits the lonely desert highways of Australia . On his way he picks up a hitchhiker named Madeleine ' Sunny ' Day ( Marion Edward ) & soon Pat notices the green van from the previous night & it's owner digging a hole in the middle of nowhere trying to bury some plastic bin bags . Pat remembers a news report on the radio about a Jack the Ripper style serial killer picking up & murdering young female hitchhikers & instantly becomes suspicious , during the course of his long drive to Perth Pat encounters the green van again on several occasions becoming more & more convinced that the killer is behind the wheel . Pat also picks up another hitchhiker named Pamela Rushworth ( Jamie Lee Curtis ) as he is determined to discover the truth & deliver his meat . . . Produced & directed Richard Franklin I personally thought Roadgames was far too slow & predictable to distinguish itself from it's competitor's . The script by Everett De Roche is just so slow & Roadgames quickly became a test of endurance for me . Roadgames felt like 90 minutes of Keach driving along & talking to himself occasionally being distracted by a possible serial killer on the loose & one or two hitchhikers . The murder elements of the story are given very little time overall especially during the first hour or so , even though Pat isn't sure whether or not the green van driver is a killer we , the viewer that is , are so we don't really emphasise with him or what he's going through because we know & he doesn't . I just found it rather tedious to watch a murder mystery without any mystery on my part ! For some bizarre reason the killer & his motives are almost totally ignored , he isn't given any sort of background or even a name which made it hard for me to be interested in the character & to some extent the killer felt like an afterthought at times . The central idea is solid & could have been turned into a good psycho thriller but instead Roadgames is an uninteresting & somewhat dull film . It goes on for far too long at 95 odd minutes , it could have done with being 10 or so minutes shorter . I find it hard to believe that if you suspect someone of being a vicious serial killer that you've never seen or met you would let a young girl investigate their van on her own & I personally would want more proof than a occupied toilet that he wasn't around , I mean it could be anyone in there ! I found the scene with the car alarm constantly going off in the background highly annoying . At one point I thought the climax might surprise me but instead it quickly got back on track & ended happily for everyone as could easily be predicted . Having said all that Roadgames is reasonable entertainment & it made me want to stick with it to see the outcome , it's generally well made throughout & there are a couple of effective scenes as well . There's no blood or gore in Roadgames apart from the out-of-place twist scare ending which feels like it belongs in a horror film . The acting is good enough even though very few characters populate the film , Keach is particularly good & quite likable as the hero which is just as well as he has to carry the film by himself at times . Even though given near top-billing in the credits Curtis is only in Roadgames for a relatively short period of time . Technically Roadgames is good , Franklin shoots the film simply but stylishly . Overall Roadgames is a slightly below average thriller as far as I'm concerned , the story & the way it was developed didn't really do anything for me & I found it all rather boring & pedestrian . Worth a watch if you like these types of films otherwise I'd steer clear .
Serial killer biopic without much serial killing .	Gacy is set in the small Chicago , Illinois town of Des Plaines & starts during 1976 where local businessman John Wayne Gacy Jr . ( Mark Holton ) lives with his wife Kara ( Joleen Lutz ) & their two young twin daughter's . Gacy is a well respected member of the Des Plaines community , he holds huge parties , employs various young men & likes to do volunteer work in the community like attending children's parties dressed up as Pogo the Clown . However his respectable reputation seems at odds with the fact that he is a huge liar & brutal sadistic rapist & killer of young men . . . Co-written & directed by Clive Saunders this true-life biopic of notorious serial killer John Wayne Gacy is one of several Indie produced films that profile some infamous serial killer or other from Dahmer ( 2002 ) to the enjoyable Ted Bundy ( 2002 ) to the God awful The Hillside Strangler ( 2004 ) , I can't say Gacy as a film did much for me & even at a short 80 odd minute run time I doubt I would ever want to watch it again . The film starts with a caption that explicitly states several character's & events in the film have been fictionalised so Gacy is maybe not as true to life as some may like , having said that whether it's true to life or not it's still not a very good film . It's rather slow going for the most part & almost all of Gacy's crimes are omitted , at no point in Gacy do we actually see Gacy kill anyone which , considering it's a film about a serial killer , could be thought of as a definite flaw . Gacy is more of a drama than an exploitation flick , I thought the story & character's were alright but a distinct lack of gruesome incident & the total omission of Gacy's crimes meant that Gacy didn't really feel like a biopic of one of the most notorious serial killers ever . Surely those crimes & evil acts were a huge part of him ? Surely they are the only reason anyone even knows who he is ? How can the film almost totally ignore them ? The film looks alright , it's reasonably well made although there's a distinct lack of blood or gore , there's plenty of maggots & cockroaches in Gacy's corpse strewn crawlspace but surely they would have totally overrun the entire house & not just stayed down in the crawlspace . Apparently Gacy is also known as ' The Killer Clown ' , in reality he was convicted & later executed ( he was given 21 consecutive life sentences & 12 death sentences ) for the rape & murder of 33 boys & young men ( ranging between the ages of 14 & 21 ) between 1972 & his arrest in 1978 ( 27 of whom he actually buried in his crawlspace ) . Rumour has it Gacy's last words before his execution on May 10th in 1994 were ' kiss my ass ! ' . Bizarrely after his execution Gacy's brain was removed & is now in the possession of Dr . Helen Morrison although I have no idea what she intends to do with it or why she has it . Although set in Chicago the film was actually shot in California , it looks alright & has reasonable production values but it doesn't have much of a 70's feel or vibe to it . The acting is alright , Adam Baldwin has a small role at the start . Gacy is a film about a serial killer that completely misses out all of the killings , as a drama it's alright I suppose & at least it's short but I doubt I would ever want to see it again & by all accounts it's not that accurate .
Pretty bad giant creature feature , so bad it's good film lovers rejoice !	Boa vs . Python starts as rich casino owner & big game hunter Broddick ( Adamo Palladino ) has a huge 80 foot Python imported from South East Asia with the intention of staging a one of a kind hunt , however just outside Phillidelphia the snake breaks free & disappears into some underground tunnels . FBI Agent Sharpe ( Kirk B . R . Woller ) is on the case , this guy has a pretty wild imagination because he flies in Monica ( Jaime Bergman ) from the Miami Marine Research Institute to help fit a huge 80 foot Boa with special monitoring equipment because they intend to release the Boa which will hunt down the Python & bingo job done . However the FBI has more to worry about than just 80 foot snakes as Broddick still wants his hunt & Pillidelphia is as good a place as any , I mean so what if innocent people lose their lives . . . Directed by David Flores this is quite simply an incredible film , an incredible film for all the wrong reasons of course & one that you have to see to believe . The script by Chase Parker & Sam Wells is absolutely preposterous from start to finish , this really is one of the dumbest & stupidest films I've seen & it wouldn't surprise me if the filmmakers took that as a compliment . At least it doesn't take itself seriously & I'm convinced the humour & silliness on show here is deliberate although I admit I didn't find any of it particularly funny . For a start the character's are awful , from dumb local cops to incompetent FBI agents to heavily armed soldiers who just stand there while some guy with a flame thrower turns them into human toast without firing a single shot back . The dialogue is terrible , people reactions & decision making is awful & you know your in trouble when they cast the likes of Playboy Playmate January 1999 Jaime Bergman as a brilliant marine scientist ! You can't take the film seriously for a second , it's just so ridiculous & the basic premise is totally moronic . To it's credit it moves along like a rocket & provides some entertainment on a so bad it's good level . Director Flores does OK I suppose , it looks nice enough although it does resemble flashy music videos & commercials at times . There's a surprising amount of female nudity on show here , it certainly outweighs the gore side of things which is low as there's a couple of bitten in half bodies & that's it . There is also one priceless moment in Boa vs . Python the likes of which will probably never be repeated again , while having oral sex with his girlfriend a guy is dragged off & killed by the Python which then goes back & finishes the job off for him with it's slimy forked tongue ! The snakes themselves aren't really in it enough & when they do eventually get to fight for all of 30 seconds at the end it's rather pathetic & poorly animated . There are numerous classic bad film moments throughout this that will go down in cinematic history & really do have to be seen to be believed . Technically the film is alright , the snake CGI computer effects aren't too bad generally speaking although some bits here & there are terrible . Set in Phillidelphia but actually filmed in Sofia in Bulgaria . The less said about the acting on show here the better I think . Boa vs . Python is just one of those cinematic experiences which almost defies explanation , it really is as ridiculous & dumb as it sounds but if you turn your brain off it might provide a few decent laughs . Impossible to recommend as it's terrible but there's a bit of fun to be had here if you look hard enough . Follows & brings together Python ( 2000 ) , Python 2 ( 2002 ) & New Alcatraz ( 2002 ) which featured the 80 foot Boa .
Almost story free ghost flick .	Prison is set in Wyoming where work on a new prison has hit a problem so the state board decide to re-open an old state penitentiary that has been closed for 20 years , Warden Eaton Sharpe ( Lane Smith ) is put in charge . 200 odd prisoners are shipped in & they are put to work fixing the rundown prison up including Burke ( Viggo Mortensen ) who is ordered to break into the old execution chamber , he duly obliges but when he penetrates the bricked up door an intense beam of light shoots out & all the electrics , gas & fire around the prison goes crazy for a few minutes . Burke has unwittingly unleashed a deadly evil force which is in the mood for some killing & no-one is safe . . . Directed by Renny Harlin I thought Prison was a poor late 80's horror flick that seemed to forget about the small point of having a story . The script was by Empire Pictures regular C . Courtney Joyner who was responsible for writing such ' classics ' as Class of 1999 ( 1990 ) , Puppet Master III : Toulon's Revenge ( 1991 ) & Puppet Master vs . Demonic Toys ( 2004 ) amongst other low budget horror crap that even I haven't heard of & seems to take itself very seriously . The biggest problems I have with Prison are that it's far too slow , it's over 30 minutes into the film before the ' evil force ' is even released although the pace does pick up towards the end but by then it was too little too late as far as I was concerned , then there's the fact there's no discernible storyline here at all . For a start it never tries to explain why there's an ' evil force ' bricked up in the old execution chamber , it never explains why this force decides to kill random inmates when it's supposed to be out on a revenge mission or why it just doesn't kill Warden Sharpe straight away , no explanation is given to where Burke fits into it even though he looks exactly the same as the prisoner who was electrocuted & has come back , there's no real explanation as to how the Warden is connected to everything that's going on apart from two early nightmare sequences in which he seems to be remembering something although it's never revealed what it is or why . To be honest I couldn't really give you a plot synopsis as the film doesn't have a rigid story which it follows all the way through . The character's are dull & forgettable , the murders are few & far between , the pacing is way off , the whole film is a mess & even ghosts can't shoot straight when it comes to trying to shoot the hero . A less than satisfactory way to spend 100 odd minutes , there really are better things you could be doing . Director Harlin's full American flick debut he does a good job & there's a decent atmosphere but after over an hour of constant drab , dull , dark prison cells & corridors I started to get bored . I just think the look of the film is far too repetitive , bland & frankly lifeless . I didn't think it was scary & the gore is pretty tame apart from the best moment in the entire film when a police guard gets killed when a load of barb wire wraps itself around his body & face with a nice close up of his throat being torn open . Other than that there's a burnt corpse & a mangled body which falls from the ceiling & very little else . There is a scene when the Warden burns all the prisoner mattresses in front of them & then makes them stand all night in their underwear in the yard , I was watching this scene & thought that you'd never get away with doing something like that . Over here prisoners have rights & if the Warden did something like that there would be a national outcry from all those humanitarians & every prisoner would sue the Warden , the prison service & the Government for everything they had & they'd win ! With a supposed budget of about $4 , 000 , 000 Prison actually had a pretty healthy budget although it doesn't really look like it on screen , sure there's a decent cast & the few special effects that are included are good but overall it's set in the same location with limited ambition . Prison was actually shot in a real Wyoming state prison so it certainly looks the business . The acting is alright , Prison proves that sometimes Hollywood stars not only have one crap horror film skeleton in their closets but in the case of Mortensen he has two with this & the awful The Return of the Texas Chainsaw Massacre ( 1994 ) both of which I'm sure he'd like to forget about . . . Prison is a dull , lifeless , colourless & humourless waste of 100 minutes , despite one good gore scene I didn't like it at all as I actually prefer my films to have a story rather than seemingly random events & incidents cobbled together with no narrative sense .
Just not funny or scary enough .	Elvira's Haunted Hills is set in Carpathia in 1851 where Elvira ( Cassandra Peterson ) is making her way across Eurpoe to Paris to do a stage-show , totally broke & stranded there Elvira & her maid Zou Zou ( Mary Jo Smith ) accept a ride from a guy named Dr . Bradley Bradley ( Scott Atkinson ) who takes them to the Hellsubus castle to stay the night . The owner of Hellsubus castle Lord Vladimere Hellsubus ( Richard O'Brien ) lives in torment of the Hellsubus family curse , the striking resemblance Elvira has to Lord Vladimere's dead wife Lady Elura doesn't go unnoticed either . . . Directed by Sam Irvin this is the second film to feature Elvira who is probably best known as the hostess of Movie Macabre during the 80's where she introduced various sci-fi , cult & horror films on US TV which means me living in the UK I never saw it & have no affinity with the Elvira character at all & only know of her through her first feature film Elvira , Mistress of the Dark ( 1988 ) so I am not clouded by any sort of nostalgic sentiment . Elvira's Haunted Hills is not a sequel to Elvira , Mistress of the Dark & is a completely stand-alone film , when you strip the film down Elvira's Haunted Hills is a comedy spoof of the Edgar Allen Poe / Roger Corman / Vincent Price / AIP Gothic horror films of the 60's with many references to said films . Unfortunately the script goes for comedy rather than scares which would have been fine if it was funny but since it wasn't it isn't , the jokes & gags feel old & are very predictable with lots of sexual innuendo , physical slapstick accompanied by daft sound effects & silly one-liners . What it boils down to is that I didn't find Elvira's Haunted Hills funny at all & the lowbrow childish humour just didn't do anything for me & since the makers neglected the horror aspects of the story there's not much left to compensate & make-up for the lack of genuine laughs . The pace of the film is alright , the story is OK & to be fair it's watchable I suppose but the script misses the mark more times than it hits it . I will say that Elvira's Haunted Hills has pretty good production values & it looks quite nice , the CGI effects are used sparingly & are alright , the sets are decent enough as are the costumes & period decor . There are plenty of horror film references & spoofs like obvious ones from The Shining ( 1980 ) , House of Usher ( 1960 ) , Pit and the Pendulum ( 1961 ) , Dracula ( 1931 ) & oddly Titanic ( 1997 ) . There's really not much in the way of proper horror here & the PG rating doesn't help either , there's a brief shot of a decapitated head & a skeleton & that's your lot . With a supposed budget of about $1 , 500 , 000 this was filmed in Bucharest in Romania which is helpful since the film is set there anyway , the film looks nice enough although the low budget does occasionally show . The acting is over the top & everyone hams it up , Peterson is pretty good & she still looks OK even at 50 when she shot this although if you look at the film you will notice there aren't any close-ups on her as medium & longs shots are mostly used . Elvira's Haunted Hills is more of a comedy than it is a horror , unfortunately it's just not very funny . It's not a complete disaster & is watchable I suppose but I can't really recommend a silly horror comedy that is neither scary nor funny .
A low budget Hostel rip-off .	Live Feed is set in some unnamed Chinese / Japanese Asian district somewhere as five American friends , Sarah ( Ashley Schappert ) , Emily ( Taayla Markell ) , Linda ( Caroline Chojnacki ) , Mike ( Lee Tichon ) & Darren ( Rob Scattergood ) are enjoying a night on the town & taking in the sights . After a scuffle in a bar with a Japanese Triad boss ( Stephen Chang ) they decide to check out a porno theatre , as you would . Inside they are separated & quickly find out that the place belongs to the Triad boss who uses it to torture & kill people for reasons which aren't made clear . Can local boy Miles ( Kevan Ohtsji ) save them ? This Canadian production was co-written , produced & directed by Ryan Nicholson who also gets a prosthetic effects designer credit as well , one has to say that Live Feed is another pretty poor low budget shot on a camcorder type horror film that seems to exist only to cash in on the notoriety & success of Hostel ( 2005 ) & the mini craze for ' torture porn ' as it's become known . According the IMDb's ' Trivia ' section for Live Feed writer & director Nicholson wrote it after hearing about certain activities taking place in live sex theatres , for my money I reckon he wrote it after watching Hostel ! The script is pretty poor , there is no basic reason given as to why this porno theatre has a big fat ugly freak dressed in bondage gear lurking around torturing & killing people , none . Was it for the Triads ? Was it for his pleasure ? Was it to make snuff films to sell ? Some sort of explanation would have been nice . Also why did he turn on the Triad boss at the end ? If your looking for a film with a coherent story then forget about Live Feed . It seemed to me to be some sort of uneasy misjudged mix of sex , S & M , horror , torture , gore & action films which doesn't come off . I mean just setting a horror film in a porn theatre isn't automatically going to make your film any good , there still needs to be a decent script & story , right ? The character's were fairly poor clichés & some of their actions & motivations were more than a little bit questionable . It moves along at a reasonable pace , it's fairly sleazy mixing gore , sex & nudity but it does look cheap which lessens the effect . Director Nicholson doesn't do anything special here , the editing is choppy & annoying , he seems to think lighting almost every scene with neon lights is a good idea & the film has a cheap look about it . Available in both ' R ' & ' Unrated ' versions I saw the shorter cut ' R ' version which really isn't that gory but I am prepared to give the benefit of the doubt to the ' Unrated ' version & say that it might be much , much gorier but I can't say for sure . There's a fair amount of nudity too if that's your thing . I wouldn't say there's much of an atmosphere or many scares here because there isn't & aren't respectively although it does have a sleazy tone in general which is something it has going for it I suppose . Technically Live Feed isn't terribly impressive , the blood looks a little too watery for my liking & entire scenes bathed in annoying neon lights sometimes makes it hard to tell whats happening , it to often looks like it was shot on a hand-held camcorder & the choppy editing at least on the ' R ' rated version is at times an annoying mess . Shot on location in an actual porn theatre somewhere in Vancouver in Canada . The acting is poor , sometimes I couldn't tell if the actresses in this were supposed to be crying or laughing . . . Live Feed is not a film I would recommend anyone to rush out & buy or rent , I didn't think much of it with it's very weak predictable storyline lacking exposition & which goes nowhere , poor acting & less than impressive gore ( at least in the ' R ' rated cut anyway ) . Watch either Hostel films again or instead as they are superior .
Dull Euro horror / exploitation / thriller film , there is much better out there .	The film opens with the on screen paragraph ' this film is based on actual events that took place in a Central European country not many years ago ' . Yeah , course it is . During the credits we see a yet unknown nun in confession . Then we are introduced to Sister Gertrude ( Anita Ekberg ) who works in a hospital with a Dr . Poirett ( Massimo Serato ) and her roommate and friend Sister Mathieu ( Paola Morra ) , other people work there obviously but these are the only ones you need concern yourself with at this point . Sister Gertrude has recently undergone surgery to remove a brain tumour and has been experiencing headaches , black outs and a loss of control . Dr . Poirett says that he thinks she is suffering from post operative shock and the symptoms that she describes are purely psychosomatic . In actual fact Sister Gertrude has become addicted to morphine . Sister Gertrude receives no support from her Mother Suerior ( Alida Valli ) as she tells Sister Gertrude that " it's a nun's vocation to suffer " . After Dr . Poirett refuses to prescribe her anymore morphine , Sister Gertrude steals a ring from a dead patient and pawns it in the city buying the drug with the proceeds . Sister Mathieu steals morphine for her as well from the hospital . The patients and Dr . Poirett begin to notice that Sister Gertrude's personality has begun to change , for the worse . One night Sister Gertrude notices that a patient named Josephine ( Nerina Montagnani ) has put her false teeth into her glass of water on the dining room table during dinner . Angry Sister Gertrude throws them on the floor and stamps on them . Later that night Josephine has a heart attack in her room and dies , this is when Sister Gertrude steals the ring . Soon after this incident Sister Gertrude senses Dr . Poirett is becoming suspicious and talks to the director ( Daniele Dublino ) of the hospital and convinces him to fire Dr . Poirett . Things become worse for Sister Gertrude as Father Janot is bludgeoned to death and thrown out of a high window to make it look like suicide . More deaths occur as the new Doctor , Patrick Roland ( Joe Dallesandro ) can't quite believe what is happening at the hospital and he too also starts to have his suspicions about Sister Gertrude . Is Sister Gertrude a drug-addicted killer ? Since the hospital doesn't want a scandal they try and cover up the deaths as accidents but eventually the truth is revealed . . . . . . . . . . . . Co-written and directed by Giulio Berruti I really didn't think too much of this European exploitation film . The script by Berruti and Alberto Tarallo is quite slow at times and surprisingly shy's away from the stronger sleaze and exploitation elements you may expect from a Euro film from this period and of this type . A bit of nudity , a sequence where a female patient gives a man in a wheelchair a blow-job and has sex with him and a scene where a woman has needles stuck into her face is about it . The film is set almost entirely in the hospital and the fact that Ekberg plays a nun is totally irrelevant and not really used to it's full potential . There are not enough suspects on show either , I always felt that it was going to be one of only two potential killers and I was proved right . And the films title ' Killer Nun ' tells you just about everything you need to know as well . The killers motives are never really made that clear and the way they are revealed at the end is one of the poorest and most unimaginative I've ever seen , the killers unmasking is better in an average Murder , She Wrote ( 1984-1996 ) episode ! I just didn't care about anyone or anything in this film , and that's never a good thing . Quite well made on a certain level but there are so many more better films out there in this genre . Dull , unexciting and somewhat uninteresting . Not worth spending good money on that's for sure .
Below average slasher , nothing new or particularly good .	Lovers Lane starts on ' Valentines Day Thirteen Years Ago ' & opens in lovers lane as Harriet Anderson ( Erin J . Dean ) is cheating on her husband Tom ( Matt Reidy ) with Ward Lamson ( Brian Allemand ) who in turn is cheating on his wife Penny ( Suzanne Bouchard ) , as they conduct intimate relations with each other they are attacked & murdered by Ray Hennessey ( Ed Bailey ) who uses a large hook on his hand to dispatch his victims with . . . Jump to the ' Present Day ' , Tom is now the local Sheriff & has brought his daughter Mandy ( Erin J . Dean ) up on his own while Penny who is now the local high school principal has had to bring her son Michael ( Riley Smith ) up on her own , both are now 16 years old . Hennessey escapes from ' Meston State Hospital ' after killing a guard & is on the loose again . Michael wants to dump his girlfriend Chloe ( Sarah Lancaster ) so in revenge she takes his best friend Bradley ( Ben Indra ) up to lovers lane & tells a guy named Doug ( Bill O'Sullivan ) to make sure Michael knows about it . Along with a group of friends , including Mandy , Michael heads up to lovers lane for some fun but someone else has other plans for our teenage lovers , someone who has a large hook on his hand . . . Directed by Jon Steven Ward Lovers Lane is a pretty dull slasher that offers nothing particularly worthwhile in an already over saturated sub-genre . The script by producers Geof Miller & Rory Veal is poor even by teenage slasher standards . For a start the character's are annoying teenage stereotypes of the worst kind , the killer & they're eventual motives come as no real surprise & the films only clue to who it might be is far too obvious & gives the game away early on in the proceedings , the exploitation elements are seriously lacking as the murders are very tame & considering it's called Lovers Lane there is virtually no nudity or sex . It seems to pay homage to , or rip-off whichever you prefer , various other slasher films like My Bloody Valentine ( 1981 ) as the opening is set on Valentines day , the whole Friday the 13th ( 1980 ) & Scream ( 1996 ) feel about it & most blatantly copying I know What You Did Last Summer ( 1997 ) as the killer uses a large hook in both films . . . The film is also far too slow , has too low a body count & the mystery surrounding the killers identity never grips or engages , Lover Lane also features one of those awful sequel driven endings . Director Ward directs with surprising competence & as a whole the film looks decent enough . However the stalk ' n ' slash scenes are poorly handled with zero tension , build up or atmosphere & have little in the way of a pay-off . The gore is absolutely minimal , there's a severed dogs head , some dead bodies covered in blood , someone is stabbed in the leg & right at the every end we finally see the hook sink into human flesh , but not for too long as that would actually be quite gory & we can't have that can we . . . The budget for Lovers Lane couldn't have been that great but as a whole the film looks OK & is reasonably well made . The babe factor is quite high with some nice looking birds . Lovers Lane isn't the best slasher ever filmed , far from it but on a positive note it isn't the worst I've seen . Unfortunately the slasher genre is an over worked & limited sub-genre & Lovers Lane just doesn't cut it at any level . I suppose it's watchable but not very enjoyable .
" She's sexy , she cooks , she cleans . . . I think you've found the perfect woman . " Mildly entertaining comedy spoof .	Return of the Killer Tomatoes ! starts as it means to go on with a silly film-within-a-film gag about it being the one dollar movie of the week on a cheap cable TV station . Once the film begins proper it seems that Professor Gangreen ( John Astin ) is experimenting with splicing human & tomato genes & has created tomato people , or at least I think that's what's happening . One such tomato person is his good looking assistant Tara ( Karen Mistal ) who dislikes the way he treats her fellow tomatoes & runs away , she ends up at pizza delivery guy Chad Finletter's ( Anthony Starke ) shop because he is the only other person she knows . They become romantically involved but the sinister Professor Gangreen sends his tomato person servant Igor ( Steve Lundquist ) to find , capture & return her . Oh , a young looking George Clooney is here as Matt , Chad's best friend just to make the film even more bizarre . Co-edited , co-starring , co-written & directed by John De Bello I thought Return of the Killer Tomatoes ! was an OK comedy spoof that you simply can't take seriously . The script by De Bello , Stephen F . Andrich , Costa Dillon & J . Stephen Peace moves along at a fair pace & has plenty of cheap gags the best of which are centred around some tacky & blindingly obvious product placement , a trend that was becoming popular in films at the time this was made , the fact that tomatoes are now illegal & have to be smuggled into the country like drugs & the shortest car chase in cinema history . A lot of it is pretty much hit & miss , you'll either end up in stitches rolling around on the floor or you'll be sat there stoney faced . Personally I found a few scenes mildly amusing but I thought much of the comedy here was far to predictable , silly & juvenile to be effective . Also forget about any literal killer tomatoes because there aren't any as the film focuses on Tara & her adventures in the real world of which she had no knowledge of before , at heart it's a fish out of water tale with the hapless Chad bailing her out of trouble . At the end of the day I found it an acceptable way to pass the time , nothing more . Director De Bello doesn't do much & as a whole Return of the Killer Tomatoes ! is a rather bland & forgettable film throughout . There are flashbacks to the original Attack of the Killer Tomatoes ! ( 1978 ) to save money while he goes for zany comedy rather than bother with unimportant things like a story . Technically Return of the Killer Tomatoes ! is OK at best but nothing spectacular . It's competent but nothing more . The acting isn't up to much & it really is strange to see such a young George Clooney pre-stardom in such a , well lets be kind & call it a unique piece of film-making . Return of the Killer Tomatoes ! is OK if you liked films such as Airplane ! ( 1980 ) , Top Secret ! ( 1984 ) , The Naked Gun ( 1988 ) & Loaded Weapon 1 ( 1993 ) . Watchable if your in the right mood . Followed by a further two sequels , Killer Tomatoes Strike Back ! ( 1990 ) & Killer Tomatoes Eat France ! ( 1991 ) both of which were directed by De Bello who seems to enjoy making films about tomatoes a little too much , he must have a giant tomato fetish or something like that . . .
" Jesus Christ ! Is that a gun ? " Average low budget horror film .	Truth or Dare ? - A Critical Madness starts with Mike Strauber ( John Brace ) finding his wife of five years Sharon ( Mary Fanaro ) in bed with his friend Jerry Powers ( Bruce Gold ) , distraught Mike heads out into the woods to get back to nature but ends up having a game of truth or dare with an imaginary hitchhiker ( Kerry Ellen Walker ) which ends up with him cutting his own tongue out , slicing his finger off & being put in Sunnyville mental institute . Jump forward 13 months later & the institute is suffering from overcrowding , as a result Dr . Thorne ( Rick Paige ) & Dr . Evans ( Mona Jones ) need to make tough decisions to free some room up so they let Mike go . Mike is still a little bit angry & bitter so kills Jerry & attempts to kill Sharon , he gets put back into Sunnyville mental institution but manages to escape & plays the ultimate murderous game of truth or dare as he sets out to gain revenge on his unfaithful ex-wife . . . Written , produced & directed by Tim Ritter I thought Truth or Dare ? - A Critical Madness was average at best , it's by no means as bad as some micro budget homemade horror films I've had to endure but it's hardly mind blowing stuff . The script takes itself far too seriously but it moves along at a reasonable pace even if it's pretty basic stuff , the character's are simplistic to say the least , the dialogue is poor & it has low production values throughout . There are no sub plots which means the narrative is very linear & a bit monotonous . I don't believe that a mental patient could hide a survival knife & grenade without anyone noticing , this wasn't him getting out it was him being admitted ! You would not be able to shoot three people on a busy road & not one single car stop or at the very least draw some attention to yourself , could you ? Also I'm not sure someone could drive a car , start a chainsaw , stick it out of the window , kill someone , retain control of the vehicle & drive off like nothing ever happened , or maybe they could ? If anyone's ever tried it let me know . . . Finally , if Mike originally cut his own finger off did a new one just magically grow back or something ? You know I don't think that would happen , would it ? I thought it entertained on a simplistic level but just don't expect anything amazing . First time director Ritter does an OK job considering the poverty of the production & his inexperience . There's no scares or shocks & there's no tension or excitement either , this won't exactly get the pulse racing . The gore wasn't great , there's a fair amount of fake blood splashed around but not that much graphic violence , a cut off hand , an exploding head & some gunshot wounds . With a supposed budget of about $200 , 000 Truth or Dare ? - A Critical Madness is technically about as good as one could expect , which is not good . The acting isn't great but at the same time it's nowhere near as bad as in some low budget horror films I've seen . Truth or Dare ? - A Critical Madness is an OK watch , I thought it passed the time but didn't do that much for me . If you like low budget obscurities than you may want to check it out but if you prefer your films with a little more polish then I'd give this a miss .
" If I knew why I was here I probably wouldn't be . " Cheap action / horror , sci-fi thing .	The Breed starts sometime in ' . . . The Near Future . . . ' where homicide detective Steven Grant ( Bokeem Woodbine ) & his partner Phil ( Reed Diamond ) follow up a lead on a particularly nasty serial killer who's running around at the moment . The lead happens to be a stolen van which they find & in a nearby building discover yet another dead body . The mysterious killer is also there , he most definitely resists arrest & even though Grant repeatedly shoots him he kills Phil by biting his neck . Grant survives but the killer disappears into the night . . . The ' National Security Agency ' contacts Grant about the incident , the agencies director says that what he , & Phil , were dealing with was a renegade Vampire . He carries on to inform Grant that there are about 4000 Vampires worldwide & they revealed themselves to ' us ' to try & live in harmony together , he also says that Vampires are genetic mutations & feed on a synthetic substitute for blood . Grant is assigned a new partner , a Vampire named Aaron Gray ( Adrian Paul ) & they are told to work together to discover the identity of the serial killing Vampire who wants to sabotage the peace between the two races . . . This American Hungarian co-production was directed by Michael Oblowitz & is average at best . The script by Christos N . Gage & Ruth Fletcher is the real problem here . Too many things just didn't work for me , for a start could a high ranking scientist create a virus that has the potential to wipe out the entire human race without a SINGLE person questioning him or finding out ? I mean the guy is even using the ' Nation Security Agency ' laboratories for Christ's sake ! Considering the Vampire race has been around for 1000's of years it seemed strange that there was only 4000 throughout the entire world & that they had never been noticed before . The central relationship between Grant the human & Gray the Vampire was clichéd & really cheesy , I mean at first they don't don't get on & seem mismatched but by the end they are best of friends & have saved each other's lives , we've seen it all before & done a lot better . The whole story is predictable & I can't believe it took Gray over half the film to figure out the painfully obvious . The whole concept just didn't work as far as I'm concerned & the film spent a good 30 minutes explaining it's own set of Vampire ' rules ' as Grant would ask a question like how to kill a Vampire & Gray would tell him thus making sure we , the viewer that is , know as well . The breed also makes a few feeble attempts to say things about racism , trust & acceptance , you know all the clichéd things one would expect . Director Oblowitz thinks he's making a cross between The Matrix ( 1999 ) , Lethal Weapon ( 1987 ) & Vampires ( 1998 ) , well no-one told him that you need a budget to pull that off . He films the fight scenes with people ' flying ' through the air plus shooting & reloading their guns in a ' cool ' way but they come off as looking ridiculous . He films everything with bleached out colours & a greenish tint . As for the films supposed style , you need to do a bit more than tilt the camera , shine a few neon lights & have some mist swirling in every shot . The gore is none existent , one neck biting , a couple of slit throats , a few gunshot wounds & someone explodes CGI style at the end & it looks terrible . With a really low budget of about $400 , 000 it shows . The Breed has reasonable production values but it looks cheap throughout & you can tell it was shot in Europe , in this case Hungary . Even though it is meant to be set in the future the cars , clothes & the like suggest otherwise . I found the acting awful , whats with the gay moustache Paul ? Woodbine gives a terrible performance & just wasn't right for the role at all . Ling Bai is quite sexy looking whenever she appears . I was disappointed by The Breed , it's one of those films that make a fantastic trailer when they show ALL the cool bits in the space of two & a half minutes set against some techno music . Unfortunately there's another eighty seven & a half minutes to sit through if you decide to watch it . Personally I didn't think much of it .
" Is my fear fuelling my imagination or is my imagination fuelling my fear ? " Average supernatural horror cheapie .	The Chair starts as psychology student Danielle Velayo ( Alanna Chisolm ) moves into 216 Archwood Drive , a large three storey Victorian house . Initially excited at moving in Danielle starts to get second thoughts when strange , ghostly & supernatural occurrences begin to happen . Doing some research on the house Danielle discovers that 100 years ago a mesmerist named Mordachai Zymytryk ( Paul Soren ) hypnotised sadistic child killer Edgar Crowe ( Adam Seybold ) at the point of his death leaving his soul in limbo . However Crowe's soul is back & begins to possess Danielle in order to carry on his murder spree , can Danielle's loving sister Anna ( Lauren Roy ) save her from Crowe's evil soul & influence ? This Canadian production was directed by Brett Sullivan & I am constantly amazed at how much an audiences opinion can differ , I mean I had a quick scan through the other IMDb comments for The Chair & quite frankly I'm wondering if they saw a completely different film than I did ! I'm sorry but I can't see how anyone could use words like ' awesome ' , ' great ' & ' I loved it ' to describe The Chair , I just can't . Everyone is entitled to their opinion of course but even so . Anyway , I personally thought The Chair was a pretty slow going fairly dull supernatural horror flick that I admit passes the time but there's not enough story here to fill a 90 odd minute film , it's pretty repetitive & I will probably have forgotten everything about it by the end of the weekend . There are a couple of plot holes that I found distracting here , for start how was Danielle connected to the house & the plot twist at the end when her tutor turns out to be Mordechai is just daft beyond belief & doesn't make a blind bit of sense . I mean if Mordechai knew that Crowe's evil spirit was still around & he knew how to stop him ( obviously he does since he does at the end ) then why didn't he kill Crowe before ? Why wait until Crowe possessed someone & started to kill innocent people ? Also there is supposedly footage shot by Mordechai back in 1902 when he first hypnotised Crowe & he talks to the camera & explains everything in a quick & easy exposition scene . Right , well that's OK if it wasn't for the fact film cameras couldn't record speech back then in 1902 ! In fact the very first ' talkie ' film was The Jazz Singer & wasn't made until 1927 . I usually don't mind the odd goof in a piece of fiction but this really bugged me & I picked up on it straight away , it irritated me the entire film ! Then there's the question of how an unemployed student could afford to rent & run a huge three storey house on her own , lets keep it real people OK ? Then there are some truly bizarre scenes like a shot of a hand pushing Danielle under water while she takes a bath but the film suddenly cuts & the next time we see Danielle she's alright & the hand is never mentioned or seen again . There's also a strange scene in which Anna comes home & her sister Danielle is hiding from her on the top shelf in the bathroom ! What's wrong with a cupboard or something simple like that ? Then Danielle gets down & walks around the house naked for no apparent reason ! What makes it even stranger is that Danielle isn't even hiding from Anna so why the top shelf ? The first hour or so is pretty slow going , the last thirty odd minutes is better & at times is even quite good but overall The Chair didn't do much me at all & a glaring plot hole or two doesn't help . According to the IMDb this was shot in director Brett Sullivan's own house , I suppose it keeps the budget down . There is very little variety in The Chair & the film takes place almost entirely in this one location which becomes boring . The chair of the title refers to a torture device the killer Crowe made & uses in the films best moments . Gore wise there's very little here , a screwdriver in someone's head & a bit of blood on a cut . Director Sullivan places his camera all over the place , there are extreme close-ups , there are lots of shots from the ceiling looking down presumably to give some impression of space & he thankfully keeps the CGI computer effects down to a minimum . There's nothing that scary here & as a whole you won't be on the edge of your seat ! Shot in Toronto in Canada the film actually looks quite nice , it certainly looks a lot better than a lot of recent low budget horror & the lack of awful CGI really helps too . The acting is average , I thought the leading lady lady Chisholm looked nice but her performance was wooden , there wasn't any difference between her being possessed by Crowe & not being possessed by him . The Chair is a film that is just about watchable but isn't anything great , I think it would have worked much better as a thirty minute Tales from the Crypt style episode with a dark twist ending which the material lends itself to perfectly . Not to be confused with The Chair ( 1989 ) which is another horror film & is about a cursed electric chair in a prison .
One of my least favourite Midsomer Murders .	Midsomer Murders : King's Crystal starts in Shanghai in China where businessman Alan King ( David Firth ) is killed in a car accident . Back in the small village of Midsomer Magna six months later & the factory that Alan own named ' King's Crystal ' is now being run by his brother Charles King ( John Castle ) & company accountant Peter Baxter ( Ray Lonnen ) . Alan's widow & his brother Charles have also just married , having sold King's Crystal & the laid off workers finding out that their pensions have been stolen both Charles & Peter find themselves under pressure . Then when Alan's son Ian ( Sam Heughan ) turns up & starts to take an interest in the business a chain of events is started that begins with the brutal stabbing of Peter Baxter , as usual DCI Tom Barnaby ( John Nettles ) has to sort through the lies & back-stabbing to uncover the truth & bring a killer to justice . . . Episode 3 from season 10 this Midsomer Murders mystery was directed by Peter Smith & I have to say I thought King's Crystal was well below par as far as this generally very good detective series goes . There are several aspects of King's Crystal that left me unsatisfied , most of them revolving around the main murder plot . OK so Barnaby discovers that Alan King was murdered in Shanghai but there's no way on Earth he can prove who did it let alone the killer in this instance , also this is one of the few times during Midsomer Murders where the killer doesn't confess & that leaves the episode feeling a little unfinished . I mean the supposed killer says he has an alibi for when Ian was murdered so how did Barnaby get around that ? If there was a pensions black-hole in a company the police would already be involved & why was Jack Tewson aiming for Ian with his rifle in that field ? There's a scene of Jack aiming for Ian but it's never explained why for some bizarre reason unless I missed something which I don't think I did . The motives are poor & the first murder isn't even a proper murder with a motive behind it . There's the usual sub-plots involving Barnaby's family that are actually more entertaining than the murder plot . There's also some nonsense about the Mason's which comes to nothing & will probably baffle most as I am not sure most will even know who or what the Freemason's are . At almost two hours in length it frags & just feels a little unfinished with a far too ambiguous ending that doesn't tie everything together neatly enough for me . There's a small scene set in Shanghai at the start of King's Crystal & it's painfully obvious that the makers just put a road sign up in Chinese somewhere in the UK & have a car drive past it ! This has the usual high production values & looks great with the real life Ironwork Gallery on the Grand Union Canal in Hertfordshire apparently being used as the King's Crystal factory . There are two murders here with neither being particularly imaginative & the second of which doesn't really get much of an explanation . The acting is fine , the regulars are good & the guest cast are also OK . Midsomer Murders : King's Crystal is not one of my favourite episodes , in fact it's probably one of my least favourite . This one falls well below the usual standard in my opinion .
One of the worst slashers from the early 80's .	Just Before Dawn is set is the mountain wilderness where five teenage campers have decided to spend the weekend having brought some land there . Despite warnings from from the local park ranger Roy McLean ( George Kennedy ) & a man who helpfully warns them that a ' demon ' is on the loose the quintet of friends decide to carry on with their initial intentions . Unfortunately the teenage friends quickly discover that there is a killer lurking in the woods who intends for them to be their next victims . . . Co-written & directed by Jeff Lieberman with the IMDb crediting producer Dave Sheldon with directing ' additional material ' whatever that may mean , Just Before Dawn seems to have a pretty good fan-base although I certainly don't count myself amongst them because I found this film average at best & a total bore at worst . A sort of lame mixture of Deliverance ( 1973 ) & Friday the 13th ( 1980 ) the script by Lieberman under the pseudonym of Gregg Irving & Mark Arywitz takes itself very seriously & is a complete snooze-fest for 50 odd minutes , there's a murder within the first five minutes which ironically is the most memorable the film has to offer & then just goes nowhere fast . I also thought the teenage character's were worse than usual , they really were totally faceless & their decision making was unrealistic & annoying to say the least . Usually a good solid 80's slasher flick will have a steady stream of decent kills to take your mind off the padding & the stupid way the character's behave but because Just Before Dawn is so dull , boring & largely uneventful I found my mind kept wondering back & focusing on all the stupid parts that either didn't make sense or were just plain stupid . The idea of Constance climbing a tree to escape the killer or the notion that after what she had been through she decides to do her hair & put on some make-up seemed odd to say the least . Then there's the supposed twist ending I kept hearing about , don't be fooled because there isn't one as it's revealed about half way through that there are two killers who are twins so the actual ending when it comes is no surprise at all & I'd have been more surprised if it didn't the way it did . There is also a serious lack of gore & a really low body count , the killer only bump off four people & only two of those are on screen deaths . Jesus Christ , what the hell am I watching this crap for if not to see lots of gory deaths ? Director Lieberman does OK , the film looks quite nice but why so many pointless shots & drawn out pans across the forest ? It becomes increasingly tedious as the film goes on & as for those annoying chirping crickets that are constantly present as background noise during the last 20 minutes don't even get me started . I didn't think the film worked , it was far too boring , it was too predictable with the stereotypical retarded inbred Hillbillie Redneck killers , it had a none event of a twist ending which is too predictable & there's not enough gore in it either . Some guy has a machete stuck through his groin which comes out of his are , someone falls into a river , a guy falls to the floor with a machete in his stomach & the killer gets it when the female heroine stuffs her hand into his mouth ! The shot of the sun & the glare in the camera is quite a nice opening credits sequence but other than that the film looks pretty repetitive . There's a touch of nudity but not much . Technically it's quite well made with decent production values , shot on location in Silver Falls national state park in Oregon . The acting is alright but nothing special , an early film appearance for Gregg Henry he has gone on to ( much ) bigger & ( much ) better things while big George Kennedy was the ' name ' actor & he seems to have a worryingly close relationship with his horse Agatha in this . . . Just Before Dawn is a lame 80's slasher that is average at best , the twist is awful & well signposted & to make matters even worse the body count is very low . What exactly do people see in Just Before Dawn ? A lot of people seem to like it so they must be seeing something here that I am not & I have absolutely no idea what it is . Didn't do a thing for me & I usually love 80's slashers .
" It tastes although it's been passed through the bowls of a goat . " Not good .	Dragon Storm starts in outer space as various meteorites hurtle towards Earth , cut to ' Carpathia 1190 A . D . ' as these meteorites land they hatch & large fire-breathing Dragons emerge . A messenger ( Vlado Nikolov ) informs King Fastrad ( John Rhys-Davies ) whose Castle is attacked by the Dragons & his people slaughtered , King Fastrad escapes with Theldag ( Tony Amendola ) his bodyguard who hire a huntsman named Silas ( Maxwell Caulfield ) to take them to the Castle of King Wednesbury ( John Hansson ) for protection . Once there Fastrad tells Wednesbury about the Dragon threat that threatens to wipe out his kingdom . King Wednesbury orders his mage Remmegar ( Richard Wharton ) & Silas to set up a team of Dragonslayers to seek out & destroy the alien Dragons . . . Directed by Stephen Furst there is little in Dragon Storm to recommend . The script by Patrick Phillips & Sam Wells is basic , sloppily paced & plotted & commits the unforgivable crime of all but neglecting the Dragons in favour of annoying comedy relief character's & an uninteresting sub-plot about overthrowing King Wednesbury . It's rather predictable & is less than exciting to watch . I would have liked to have seen the Dragons eat some people , one Dragon bites someone's head off at the end but that's it , they just use they're fire breath to wreck havoc which becomes boring very quickly . Also what's with the bizarre notion that Dragons come from outer space ? ! Director Furst ruins anything the film might have had going for it , the action scenes are so lacklustre & unexciting it's hard to believe anyone could have made such a mess of it . The character's just stand there looking very uncomfortable , almost as if their not sure as what their meant to be doing . The fights & Dragon battles are tedious in the extreme & these Dragons sure do die easily & don't even seem to put up much of a fight . Dragon Strom was made-for-TV , it was shot in Sofia , Bulgaria & had a budget of about $1 , 000 , 000 . The whole thing has a cheap look about it although most of the CGI Dragon effects are actually pretty impressive which is a bit of a surprise , it's just a shame they aren't used to any great effect & the rest of the film is poor . The locations are obviously derelict run down tourist attractions . The acting is average at best . Dragon Storm isn't very good , it's cheap & doesn't provide much in the way of entertainment . Both Dragonheart ( 1996 ) & Reign of Fire ( 2002 ) , big Budget Hollywood Dragon themed films , are far superior to Dragon Storm in every way . Worth a watch if you can catch it on TV for free & nothing else is on but it's not worth going out of your way or spending good money to secure a copy .
Not for all tastes , including mine unfortunately . . .	Fascination is set in the year 1905 & starts ( properly ) when thief Mark ( Jean-Marie Lemaire ) double crosses a gang of crooks & runs off with a bag full of gold & the crooks in hot pursuit . Mark happens upon a large Château surrounded by water with only one bridge offering access , Mark feels this would make a perfect hiding place until the cover of night . Inside he finds two young attractive women , Eva ( Brigitte Lahaie ) & Elisabeth ( Franca Mai ) who just happen to be lesbians . Mark holds them hostage at gunpoint & has sex with one of them . Eva & Elisabeth try to convince Mark to stay for a mysterious reunion that they are having that very night , Mark sticks around , out of curiosity apparently , until the first guest arrives Helene ( Fanny Magier ) . As four more female guests arrive it fast approaches midnight which seems to hold some significance that when Mark discovers what it is he wish he hadn't . . . This French production was written & directed by Jean Rollin & it didn't do much for me . While I respect other people's opinions that Rollin's films are artistic , dream like & visually stunning I don't think that about Fascination at all . Don't get me wrong there are some very nice shots & imagery in Fascination , Eva wandering around with a long robe & scythe being a particularly memorable scene , the pigeon loft scene is visually unusual & the Gothic Château setting is impressive & adds a great deal to the film , but overall I just felt it was cheaply filmed with Rollin lingering on shots & keeping his camera rolling for far too long , as a consequence at times this slows Fascination down to a virtual stand still . The one area that I do agree with the general opinion is that Rollin isn't particularly interested in story telling or a coherent plot which is a shame because if he put some of the effort that he puts in his visuals into a decent entertaining film than he'd have a winner on his hands . There is virtually no dialogue in Fascination & the plot is basic & somewhat predictable . One more thing I must state at this point is that there are no traditional Vampires in Fascination at all , no fangs , no stakes through the heart & no sleeping in coffins . There is some brief blood drinking but it's not for any sort of supernatural reasoning . I also found Fascination's exploitation elements lacking , maybe I was expecting too much but there is virtually no blood or gore & the sex & nudity seemed very tame , there is one lesbian scene & two sex scenes & that's your lot . Having said that these French women are very pretty & easy on the eyes . I don't know , maybe I'm missing something here but I just didn't find anything here to gain any sort of enjoyment from apart from some nice looking locations & a bit of nudity . Finally Fascination commits the fatal mistake of being boring & slow & at just under 80 minutes that's not a good thing to think , I can forgive almost anything as long as a film entertains me & Fascination simply didn't . I just can't imagine any regular modern cinema goer getting much from this arty mess .
" What's your dick doing over there Chuck ? " Another poor low budget straight-to-video horror .	The Tooth Fairy is set in a small town somewhere in Northern California where Peter Campbell ( Lochlyn Munro ) has brought a farming property which he is renovating & planning to turn into a holiday inn , he is joined by his girlfriend Darcy Wagner ( Chandra West ) & her young 12 year old daughter Pamela ( Nicole Munoz ) who arrive to help for the weekend . While exploring the property Pamela meets another young girl named Emma ( Jianna Ballard ) who warns her that evil lurks within her new home , she tells a tale of an evil old witch known as the Tooth Fairy who takes baby teeth from children & then kills them . Pamela is worried & becomes even more so when she falls off her bike & her last baby tooth falls out , it's not long before the evil ghost of the Tooth Fairy has her eyes on Pamela's tooth & just for kicks she also decides to kill anyone she comes across . . . Directed by Chuck Bowman I thought The Tooth Fairy was just another poor straight-to-video low budget horror film that fails to distinguish itself from the countless other's which litter video shop shelves & fill late night obscure cable TV schedules , basically it's not very good . The script by producer Stephen J . Cannell , Corey Strode & Cookie Rae Brown is a complete snooze-fest for the first 40 odd minutes , nothing of any great interest happen during this period at all & is basically dull exposition as if this stuff was going to surprise anyone . It introduces the character's , sets the Tooth Fairy legend up & that's it . The second half of the film improves slightly but even then it's hardly spectacular stuff , there are a few decent set-piece gore scenes but apart from that it's all very predictable & forgettable stuff . The character's aren't great & most of them are there purely to be killed off , the story has inconsistencies like the story of the Tooth Fairy herself , it says she kills children after they give her their baby teeth so why does she go on an indiscriminate killing spree that has nothing to do with teeth ? What happened to her after the prologue set during 1949 ? Why has she come back as a ghost ? Despite being a ghost of some sort she seems very human having to open doors herself & using weapons to kill people , there is no attempt to make any use of the supernatural elements except the ghostly children who are played for maximum sentiment . Director Bowman does OK , it's reasonably well made & there are a couple of half decent scenes but nothing to get that excited about . There's nothing I would describe as scary or atmospheric in here & don't take any notice of the comparisons between this & Darkness Falls ( 2003 ) as besides the teeth thing they're quite different . The gore is OK , someone is shoved into a wood-chipping machine , there's a decapitation , someone has their penis chopped off & the best scene when someone is nailed to a door & then has their stomach hacked open with an axe & their guts slide out . With a supposed budget of about $1 , 500 , 000 The Tooth Fairy is generally well made but there's nothing special on show here . The acting isn't anything great but it's not too bad & unusually I didn't find the child actors that annoying so that's something I suppose . The Tooth Fairy is the usual just below average low budget modern straight-to-video horror fare that seems everywhere these days , if you can find a cheap copy then it might pass 90 odd minutes if your not too demanding otherwise it's pretty poor & forgettable stuff .
" Typical , 150 women dead & penguins get top billing . " Crappy Masters of Horror episode .	Masters of Horror : The Screwfly Solution starts as America is being infected by an airborne virus that affects the male population , when aroused men indiscriminately kill any woman in sight apparently in the name of God . Scientist Alan ( Jasn Priestley ) is brought in by the Government & knows more than most & senses the situation may have gone too far already so he tells his wife Anne ( Kerry Norton ) to take their teenage daughter Amy ( Brenna O'Brien ) & try to survive as the future of the human race may depend on them . . . This Canadian American co-production was episode 7 from season 2 of the Masters of Horrror TV series , directed by Joe Dante I thought The Screwfly Solution was pretty bad . I personally think the script by Sam Hamm sucks , it takes itself far too seriously & I don't really understand why it's part of the Masters of Horror series , the horror that the filmmakers are going for in The Screwfly Solution is in the actual story itself & themes & ideas it brings up rather than on screen visual horror particularly the tenuous ecological message it sees intent on ramming down our throats whenever it's gets the chance during it's short 60 odd minute running time which I felt itself was a problem as the thing just finishes out of what could easily be interpreted as necessity rather than any meaningful attempt to wrap things up . I wasn't happy with the inconsistencies with the story either , if men only kill when sexually aroused why does the flight attendant casually break that woman's neck on the plane ? Was he sexually aroused , I think not . Why does every bloke then think he's killing in the name of God ? I just can't see every single bloke on Earth suddenly knowing the Bible & starting to believe in God , I just found the notion ridiculous & the show also states clearly that there's nothing religious about what's going on so what's the deal with everyone thinking they have a divine to murder any woman they see ? Then there's the fact people get turned on by different things , what about gays for instance ? Will they kill guys instead of women ? I know there's a brief scene which makes a joke out of the gay issue but it's conveniently brushed to one side & then there's the thing which annoyed me the most . The fact that presumably every bloke on earth has turned psycho & killed all the women they go about their everyday business like nothing ever happened , it just felt so stupid , the plotting is rubbish & to round things off there's a ending which looks like it was taken from a rejected episode of The X-Files ( 1993 - 2002 ) with a bright neon alien . Director Dante on this showing definitely doesn't qualify as a Master of Horror as far a I'm concerned , the story is badly paced , it's just so stupid considering it's played deadly straight & instead of trying to make a proper horror show he turns in more of a thriller with it's deadly virus on the loose situation & the subsequent mother & daughter on the run because of it , there's very little here in the way of what I would call effective horror & even less gore . There's a scene when a woman is stabbed with a broken bottle , a brief scene after when a guy stabs his own groin with said bottle & another woman is stabbed in the stomach but nothing else to write home about . Technically like the other episodes it's really good & it doesn't have the look of a cheap TV series , the special effects are great as usual & it's well made . The acting is alright but no-one really stood out . The Screwfly Solution is easily the worst Masters of Horror episode I've seen but bear in mind I haven't seen all of them . . . yet . As a stand alone piece of entertainment it did nothing for me & as a show made by a so-called Master of Horror it disappoints me even more .
" Freshly transplanted organs remain alive & healthy . " Dull horror .	Frankenstein 1970 starts deep in some German woods with Carolyn Hayes ( Jana Lund ) desperately running from a monster intent on killing her . . . Film director Douglas Row ( Don ' Red ' Barry ) shouts cut & the scene is in the can . Baron Victor von Frankenstein ( Boris Karloff ) has hit hard times & is skint , he has let a film-crew consisting of Row , cameraman Morgan Haley ( John Dennis ) , writer Judy Stevens ( Charlotte Austin ) , assistant director Mike Shaw ( Tom Duggan ) & actress Hayes make a film in & around his castle & estates about his ancestor's . As one would expect the current , & last , Frankenstein is continuing the family tradition of trying to re-animate a stitched together body ( Mike Lane ) . His latest patchwork creation is missing several vital ingredient's , a heart , a brain , a face & a couple of eye's . His nosey servant Shuter ( Norbert Schiller ) provides the brain & heart , however while handling the eye's Frankenstein drops them . He re-animates his monster so it can go & find a suitable pair , meanwhile all the missing people are starting to make everyone become suspicious of Frankenstein & what his real intentions are . . . This black and white potboiler was directed by Howard W . Koch & there is very little to recommend in Frankenstein 1970 , & that's another thing what's with the 1970 in the title ? No mention of the fact it is set in the year 1970 is made & the film was made in 1958 . Anyway , I am amazed that the script by Richard H . Landau , Charles A . Moses , Aubrey Schenck & George Worthing Yates took four people to write it . Four people ? ! Didn't at least one of them stand up & say ' look guys this is total crap & the audience deserves better ' , obviously not it would appear . It's slow , boring , uneventful & is basically Frankenstein trying to create a monster using spare parts from various unwilling donors just like most other cheap Frankenstein films . He doesn't even get an assistant this time . The only original part of Frankenstein 1970 is the presence of the film-crew but it's never used to forward the story or try to take things in a different direction other than one would expect . The ending is abrupt but there is a certain degree of fun to be had watching this man with a bucket on his head wrapped in bandages running around trying to act scary & menacing , totally failing of course . Director Koch does nothing to distinguish the film & it's bland throughout from the awfully dated lab to the flat castle interiors . The lab itself features some of the worst looking scientific equipment ever , massive computer panels with huge dials & knobs to all the stupid flashing lights & a control panel that wobbles whenever Frankenstein touches it . The monster starts off looking OK as it lies on an bed with no skin on it's face & just it's skull exposed but once it gets re-animated it looks awful , it's completely wrapped from head to toe in bandages ( which makes it look more like a Mummy ) & the shape & size of it's head resembles a large bucket ! One more thing , when the monster is looking for some eye's for itself how can it see where it's going or who it's kidnapping & why are there eye holes cut into the bandage's around the bucket , erm sorry head , so it can ' see ' ? With a budget of about $110 , 000 Frankenstein 1970 looks cheap throughout & considering Hammer's Curse of Frankenstein ( 1957 ) looked better & was made a year previous there really is no excuse , it's just bad film-making . The acting is poor & Karloff is obviously living on past glories here , in this he has a weird haircut , a stupid exaggerated limp & scar on his face . There really is very little to recommend Frankenstein 1970 by , I can't really think of anything other than the fact that I have seen worse films . Not one of Karloff's finer moments although I'm sure fans of his will lap it up . Not worth bothering with .
Halloween rip-off from The Asylum , surprisingly not as bad as much of their output . . .	Halloween Night starts as a young boy named Chris Vale ( Sam Stone ) witnesses his mum ( Jan Anderson ) get raped & then murdered before being horribly burnt by a jet of steam from a pipe . Jump forward ' Ten Years Later ' on ' Halloween Night ' where Chris ( Scot Nery ) is now locked up inside a mental asylum with a face that looks like a McDonald's hamburger , he escapes & kills teenager Todd ( Nicholas Day Clark ) & his girlfriend who were on their way to a Halloween party organised by their friend David ( Derek Osedach ) . It just so happens that David is organising this Halloween party in the house where Chris used to live & he heads there dressed in Todd's Halloween costume & everyone mistakes Chris for Todd which lets him move about freely killing everyone he meets for no apparent reason . . . Directed by Mark Atkins I settled down to watch Halloween Night yesterday & I feared the worst , being made by those folk at The Asylum who specialise in ripping-off big budget well known Hollywood blockbusters ( affectionately known as Mockbusters ) with the vast majority of their product being amongst the worst films you could ever have the misfortune to see but rather surprisingly I though Halloween Night was a fairly reasonably watch & not a too bad little Halloween ( 1978 , 2007 ) rip-off that does what it sets out to do . The script by Michael Gringold will feel very familiar who has watched any sort of 70's or 80's teen slasher , although the title is obviously taken from Halloween there are elements of Friday the 13th ( 1980 ) with the killers mask resembling Jason's more than Michael's & the basic idea of a horribly burnt maniac killer is taken from The Buring ( 1981 ) . To give it some credit at least there's a steady stream of dead bodies & killings , there's a nice amount of sex & nudity including a bit of lesbianism & a deliriously awful double barrelled twist ending that doesn't make any sense . The ending claims that Chris ' father placed some wood effect sticky strips over a door , shut him self in the small room & committed suicide & no-one found him in the ten years since ! Wouldn't the door handle or the door frame give away that there was a room there ? Do you know the smell that a dead decomposing body would have given off ? All the fly's & maggots would have been hard to ignore ! Then in the final twist David is accidentally killed by his girlfriend after he is mistaken for the killer & placed in a body bag ! What ? Wouldn't the police & medical examiners actually have checked his face ? I mean Chris is so burnt I really doubt anyone could have got the two mixed up . Then the final scene show's Chris being picked up at the side of the road with a paper plate placed over his face with two eye-holes cut out , would you stop to give someone wearing a paper plate over their face a lift ? It's just a totally insane ending that makes zero sense & that sums up films from The Asylum quite well in that when they go for simple blood , guts & nudity their films are OK in a crappy sort of way but when they try to write twist endings or good scripts & plots then they fall completely on their face & look stupid . As usual for an The Asylum film Halloween Night looks like it was shot on a camcorder although the special effects are better than their usual output . Out goes the horrible CGI & wisely the makers went with proper on set prosthetic make-up effects , there's various stabbings & impalement's , some effective burn make-up , a slit throat & a ripped out throat , some guts , a rotten corpse , a fair amount of blood splatter & Halloween Night is maybe the only slasher to feature death by clothes hanger ! There's nothing scary here but if all your looking for is some cheap gore effects & naked chicks then I suppose it delivers . This isn't as badly made as many films from The Asylum but that's not saying much as there really isn't anything to it & when a bit of film-making is required when the twist endings come along it all falls apart & becomes hilariously bad & inept . There's not even any reason given why Chris would want to kill anyone anyway , is there ? The acting isn't anything special & I am sure the actors used were cast for their looks rather than their acting ability . Halloween Night is a Halloween rip-off with a bit of Friday the 13th in their as well & a modern Scream ( 1996 ) style twist ending which is just plain stupid . For what it is I thought it was OK , at least it actually delivers what it promises with a fair amount of blood & boobs & it's short .
Another disappointing Masters of Horror episode .	Masters of Horror : The Black Cat starts as the broke Edgar Allan Poe ( Jeffrey Combs ) tries to sell some poetry to his publisher George Graham ( no not the Arsenal football club legend ! ) but he thinks Poe should get back to writing what he writes best , fantastical stories of horror . Poe disagrees & continues to squander his money on drink , however his priorities have to chance when his wife Virginia ( Elyse Levesque ) becomes seriously ill & he has to find money for her medicine . As Poe sit down to write the sort of story Graham ( Aron Tager ) wants his wife's black cat Pluto seems to haunting him & driving him mad . . . This Canadian American co-production was episode 11 from season 2 of the hit-and-miss Masters of Horror TV series , the second Masters of Horror story to be directed by Stuart Gordon I was deeply disappointed by The Black Cat . The script by Gordon & Stuart Paoli feels more like an autobiographical character study rather than horror for the first 40 odd minutes before it finally gets going during it's last quarter . As a lover of the horror genre myself I should be fascinated with this episode which bases it's central premise around Edgar Allan Poe who was responsible for the source material & ideas for a lot of genre films but to be honest I couldn't give a toss about him , I haven't got a clue whether this is an accurate representation of him & what he was like & frankly I couldn't care less either way . So straight away I've got a problem with it , then there's the fact that the majority of the time Poe is painted as some drunk , aggressive , rude , lying brute who I really disliked & that made it very difficult for me to care about anything which was going on . Then there's the clichéd lame cop-out ending which destroy just about everything that has gone before although I admit I didn't see it coming mainly because I thought the likes of Gordon was better than it . I was pretty bored during the opening half but at least things pick up towards the end , it's well written enough I suppose & I can see how some might be drawn in & like it but it didn't do much for me . Director Gordon does a fine job , this one looks good with great period sets & detail as it was set in the first half of the 19th Century ( Poe himself lived between 1809 & 1849 ) . Almost all the colour has been removed & this isn't too far away from being black and white apart from the brilliant creative decision to emphasise all the reds , from the bright red wine to the predictable spurts & splatterings of bright red blood , it's a nice touch which works very well & gives The Black Cat a bit of style . There's not much gore here although there is one big special effect when someone gets an axe stuck in their head in a great scene with plenty of blood , a cat has it's eye poked out , someone coughs up loads of blood & animal lovers should beware a few critters bite the dust so bear that in mind . This one lacks any great scares & there are only a couple of horror themed sequences throughout . Technically The Black Cat is excellent with great production values & it's very well made with a convincingly realised & authentic looking period setting . The acting is good although while I've liked Combs in just about everything I've seen in him I thought he was a bit bland & unlikable in this . The Black Cat certainly isn't a Masters of Horror I will look back on with any great fondness , I'm sorry but it's as simple & straight forward as that . Another week , another Masters of Horror episode , another disappointment .
" I was tired of being a vegetable . " Rubbishy third instalment of the Blind Dead series of films .	El Buque Maldito , or the more common English title of The Ghost Galleon along with various other's like Ghost Ships of the Blind Dead , Horror of the Zombies , Ship of the Zombies , The Blind Dead 3 & Zombie Flesh Eater , starts in a modelling studio owned by Lillian ( Maria Perschy ) who has been hired by rich businessman Howard Tucker ( Jack Taylor ) to supply two girls for a publicity stunt to promote his new boat . Kathy ( Blanca Estrada ) & Lorena ( Margarita Merino ) are the chosen two , they are to be stranded out at sea , rescued & then tell the waiting world how fantastic Tucker's boat was in their bid for survival . A perfect plan right ? Well no because Kathy's best friend Noemi ( Barbara Rey ) threatens to call the police so Tucker's goon Sergio ( Manuel de Blas ) has to kidnap her & while out at sea Kathy & Lorena run into a ghostly galleon that sails in perpetual fog . Soon all contact with the girls is lost , fearing bad publicity for his boat Tucker decides to sail out there himself & look for them on the quiet , along with Sergio , Noemi , Lillian & a meteorologist named professor Gruber ( Carlos Lemos ) who has heard tales of the ghost galleon before . They quickly find the galleon ( despite the whole Atlantic ocean to search ) & board it but fail to find the girls , that night from deep within the bowls of the ship the undead Knight Templars rise seeking fresh blood for their cannibalistic rituals . . . This Spanish production was written & directed by Amando de Ossorio & was the third instalment of the Blind Dead series of films & it's not very good . The script by Ossorio is awful , it's painfully slow , lacks any sort of exploitation & blood or gore has terrible unlikable character's that irritate immensely & is a chore to sit through which is a shame because I really liked the central idea of a ghost galleon travelling the sea in a cloud of fog . Every character & most of their actions in El Buque Maldito are so dumb it's unbelievable , the stranded character's quickly discover that the Knight Templars only rise at night ( which begs the question how can they emerge from the sea at the end in the middle of the day , but that's another question ) which would give them a reasonable amount of time to try & figure out a plan right ? I'd say 10 hours at least , so why does it take until half an hour before the Knight Templars are due to rise before someone finally has the ingenious plan to throw their coffins overboard ? There is a scene that comes from nowhere when the weather professor casually says that he knows a little bit about exorcism , yeah right because that's the sort of thing everyone knows a little about isn't it ? Especially meteorologists . So it continues with some of the dumbest scenes & dialogue you can think of . El Buque Maldito will put most people to sleep , it's over half an hour before we see the Knight Templars & even when they do make an appearance they don't do anything much , except walk , slowly , very slowly . Director Ossorio creates a wonderful atmosphere on the galleon , the creaking wood , the torn sails , the period decor & fixtures , the dirt dust & the whole look & feel is quite unique , it's just a shame Ossorio made such a lame film around it . The Knight Templars look exactly the same as the rest of the series minus the slow motion horses while the gore is virtually none existent . During the entire film there is one on screen murder & it's actually a good one , someone has there neck sliced with a sword , the Templars then also get to eat their victims severed hands & drink some blood . Unfortunately one decent kill can't compensate for the rest of the film . Technically El Buque Maldito is OK but the one thing that spoils it are the absolutely awful miniature ghost galleon effects , they really are that bad , they look like a paper boat in a bathtub & just wait until you see it burn & sink at the end , very funny & completely destroys the mood . The acting & dubbing are both poor as one would expect . El Buque is a pretty awful film except for a couple of good ideas & some nice sets . There is very little here to recommend , Euro horror fans might like to give it a try but anyone else would probably be bored rigid & be more likely to laugh than scream . However , I still can't quite decide if this is the worst in the series or the next one Night of the Seagulls ( 1975 ) .
Below average Quincy episode .	Quincy M . E . : A Small Circle of Friends starts as big shot American Football player quarterback Joe Ramsey ( Lee Paul ) drops down dead in the dressing room after a game , after the autopsy Los Angeles coroner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) concludes he died from a brain aneurysm that could have burst at any time . The autopsy also show's that Joe was carrying a penicillin resistant strain of gonorrhoea , a sexually transmitted disease which could cause an epidemic . Quincy is drafted in as a health department volunteer to track down the source & original carrier of the gonorrhoea & stop it's spread even further . . . Episode 12 from season 4 this Quincy story was directed by regular series producer Peter J . Thompson & one has to say this is not one of Quincy's better episodes . The basic story revolves around gonorrhoea & sexually transmitted diseases & the delicate social & moral issues that surround them , like how people are embarrassed by them , how they refuse to get checked up & receive treatment , how the situation might be seen as awkward at home & it has several scenes with prostitutes & pimps ( one who calls him ' Sultan ' no less ! ) as well who rather prejudicially are considered to be the source . These days A Small Circle of Friends like a lot of Quincy episodes feels a touch dated , I don't think the same sort of attitudes exist today & I also think most responsible people use condoms anyway . In fact if that prostitute Gabrielle was so careful like she insists she was what was she doing having unprotected sex ? I mean by definition that's the only way to catch a sexually transmitted disease isn't it ? Shouldn't the message here from the makers have been wear a condom ? I think maybe it should yet the word condom or the discussion of safe protected sex is never mentioned once . If a skanky whore prostitute wants to have unprotected sex with some guy she met five minutes earlier than that's up to her & if she gets gonorrhoea then the saying ' if you live by the sword expect to die by it ' ( or whatever the exact saying is ) comes to mind . Just to liven things up a bit the last ten minutes features a hastily resolved murder case that was almost totally forgotten about after it was brought up during the opening sequence . Not a particularly good episode , the moral & social messages are both wrong & outdated for me & there are much better Quincy episodes out there , it's that simple really . This episode deals with prostitution to some extent & there's some nice sleazy nighttime Los Angeles location footage of prostitutes & some pimps too ! Quite risky for a Quincy episode although there's nothing graphic or coarse . Has anyone else noticed that every woman Quincy is seen romantically involved with is an air stewardess ? The acting is alright . A Small Circle of Friends is not the best Quincy episode ever but at the same time it's not the worst , I didn't think too much of it because the moral & social messages were outdated & wrong & the murder mystery angle is barely noticeable .
Another vastly overrated early horror from David Cronenberg , disappointing .	Nola Carveth ( Samantha Eggar ) is under the psychiatric care of Dr . Hal Raglan ( Oliver Reed ) who practise's rather radical unconventional methods know as psychoplasmics & Nola is his star patient . The treatment encourages the patient bodies to manifest their emotions . Nola's estranged husband , Frank Carveth ( Art Hindle ) is at Dr . Raglan's clinic to pick up his & Nola's young daughter Candice ( Cindy Hinds ) after she had visited to see her Mother for the weekend . Back home Frank notices bruises & marks on Candice's back while giving her a bath , after seeking advice from his lawyer ( Larry Solway ) Frank decides to investigate Raglan's clinic & methods to prove he , or one of his patients , was responsible for Candice's injuries . Frank discusses the situation with his Mother-in-law Julianna Kelly ( Nuala Fitzgerald ) as he leaves Candice there for her to look after . Julianna hears the window breaking in her kitchen & banging noises , she investigates & is brutally murdered but Candice is unharmed . Frank is notified by the police & when his Father-in-law Barton ( Henry Beckman ) is also murdered in the same house by a deformed child he knows something is going on ( as you would ) . At Candice's school her teacher Ruth Mayer ( Susan Hogan ) is attacked & murdered by two different deformed children as they kidnap Candice & lead her away . Eventually Frank realises that all the evil he has encountered has originated at Dr . Raglan's clinic , Frank drives up there to see Nola , Dr . Raglan & reclaim his daughter Candice but what he finds instead is a nightmare of terror beyond imagination ! Written & directed by David Cronenberg I really didn't see much to enjoy in the Brood . I just don't get why so many people like this , it's as dull as dishwater for over an hour & contains little in the way of horror . Having said that things pick up towards the end with the revelations & a fairly decent climax . The Brood plods along like some sort of marital drama as very little information is given away , Cronenberg obviously wanted to create an air of mystery which is O . K . but at least have things happening so we care about where the story ends up . I was totally uninterested in anyone or anything by the time all was revealed . Acting is solid throughout as you would expect from a Cronenberg production but even though Oliver Reed is given top-billing in the credits he has very little on screen time . I liked Samantha Eggar in her role , I'm not sure if she was meant to be the villain or not but I liked her . There is one decent gore scene in the Brood at the end , otherwise we don't get anything other than splashes of blood . From a technical point of view the Brood is good enough but not exactly outstanding . Overall I just didn't like the Brood & couldn't get into the story or characters , it all just left me deeply uninterested & cold . Lots of people seem to like it so maybe it's me but I don't personally know anyone who would particularly enjoy this film in my opinion , & certainly not anyone into mainstream films that's for sure . Check it out if you can , just don't expect too much like I obviously was .
Infamous yet familiar feeling Quincy episode .	Quincy M . E . : Bitter Pill starts as 18 year old college basketball player Perry Jordan ( Thomas Byrd ) drops down dead from a brain hemorrhage . Los Angeles coroner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) does the autopsy & discovers that Perry had a rare condition which facilitated his brain hemorrhage but the main cause was look-a-like drugs named ' Black Beauties ' found in his system . Then another college boy named Ross Yates ( Michael LeClair ) dies because he took the real drug by mistake instead of the supposedly harmless look-a-like . Quincy realises there is a big problem & finds out that there is a store named ' Zagner's Pep Shop ' which supplies look-a-like drugs over the counter , Quincy is shocked to learn that since each specific drug in the look-a-likes are legal the owner Keith Zagner ( Simon Oakland ) is not breaking the law by selling otherwise potentially dangerous drugs . . . Episode 9 from season 7 this Quincy story was directed by Georg Fenady & is the infamous episode where Quincy completely loses his temper , goes into Zagner's shop & literally tears it apart with his bear hands ! Quincy then spends the night in jail & surely would have been suspended at least if not sacked on the spot but I am prepared to overlook it . As you can probably guess Bitter Pill is one of those Quincy episodes which focuses entirely on a moral or social issue & here once again it's drugs . Quincy has done the anti-drug thing before on more than one occasion & I must admit I found Bitter Pill rather tedious & doesn't particularly add anything that hasn't already been covered by the series . There's no murder , there's no mystery , there's nothing to solve , Quincy doesn't really use his medical skills or knowledge to solve any sort of crime & Bitter Pill presents a very black and white picture of drugs & that they are bad & that's all there is to it . The one original aspect of Bitter Pill is that it tries to raise the issue of look-a-likes but a drug is a drug is a drug as far as I am concerned whether it's a look-a-like or the real thing you shouldn't be taking them & if you do then you have no-one else to blame but yourself if you end up on Quincy's autopsy table . Simple as that . I don't take drugs , no-one I know takes drugs & to me it's a personal choice so I have little sympathy for junkies & addicts who rob old ladies to get money for a fix & end up killing themselves . To be honest do decent honest folk really care if these addicts , thieves & low-lives kill themselves in pursuit of getting high ? At fifty odd minutes at least it's short but I can't say I enjoyed it except one or two scenes which are unintentionally funny when watched today . Bitter Pill feels like a cross between Walk Softly Through the Night ( 1979 ) from season four & The Winning Edge ( 1980 ) from season five . Simon Oakland makes the third of his four guest appearances on Quincy playing the drug dealer making money from other people's misery while his next role in Give Me Your Weak ( 1982 ) from season eight is that of a US Senator . Again Klugman is the best thing about Bitter Pill , his performance & rousing heartfelt speeches & superb acting keeps it watchable . Bitter Pill is not a Quincy episode that I liked , it's another straight moralistic warning against the dangers of drugs . Yawn . Change the record guy's , change the record . . .
" As far as I'm concerned your a hot-dog . " Disappointing start to season 8 .	Quincy M . E . : Baby Rattlesnakes starts as a 9 year old girl Maddy Billingsley is ' accidently ' shot & killed in a gang related drive-by shooting , L . A . coroner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) performs the autopsy & is upset by what he sees . He learns that a 14 year old boy named Ethan Kellog ( De'vereaux White ) has been arrested , he was out on probation & wasn't supposed to be associating with his old gang ' The Ravens ' . Ethan claims he was just in the car & didn't fire the shot but with an angry press & Californian public wanting blood justice has to be seen to be done . This one incident could affect the lives of many young men who are being helped by a radical program run by Rick Durado ( Gregory Sierra ) which aims to straighten out young gang members , but is it working & is it worth saving ? Quincy decides to find out . . . Episode 1 from season 8 this Quincy story was directed by Georg Fenady & was a pretty lousy way to kick off Quincy's final season . The script deals with the still very relevant issue of juvenile & gang related crime which is fine but time hasn't been kind to it & in the 25 years since Baby Rattlesnakes was made it has become clear that dealing with youth crime using social workers , Government based schemes & giving them astonishingly light sentences because they are ' children ' simply doesn't work , personally I think Quincy is sitting on the wrong side of the fence on this one . One of the reasons why juvenile crime is such a problem , certainly here in the UK , is because of these namby pamby schemes & programs & because there is simply no deterrent for offenders . If a kid commits a serious crime & they are ordered to report to a social worker for six months where's the deterrent in that ? These people just use the system to their advantage & they know how to get the lightest possible sentence . I know for a 100 % fact youth crime is a big problem here & those committing it are literally laughing at our justice system because to them it feels like they can ' get away ' with anything totally Scott free except maybe a fine & a slap on the wrist . It's pathetic & I don't care if I sound like a Neanderthal but I firmly believe we , as a society , should come down hard on these people & send them to prison regardless of age because otherwise it becomes a way of life for them , I'm sorry but that's the way I feel . Take New York for instance & the zero tolerance campaign against crime they had , it bloody worked didn't it ? It certainly worked a lot better than sending these people to social workers & giving them umpteen chances like we do here . God I'm starting to sound like Quincy going off on another impassioned speech ! This Quincy episode focuses on Ethan & the moral issues surrounding his case , the killing of Maddy is given very little screen time , just like in reality all the rights are given to the criminals & the victims are totally forgotten about . This is a poor episode , a misjudged episode & one which won't go down as one of my favourites . This one sees the introduction of Dr . Emily Hanover & the beginnings of a relation between her & Quincy which will lead to bigger things . Here she asks Quincy his first name & he won't even tell her ! A new season also brings with it a slightly revamped & beefier opening theme tune although the actual opening sequence stays exactly the same . Am I the only one who found that Ethan kid extremely annoying ? Baby Rattlesnakes might have had some relevance 25 years ago when it was made but the procedures & schemes which Quincy fights to save in this episode have , in my opinion , been proved not to work & in the long run have ended up doing more harm than good . An extremely dated & for a change a morally wrong episode , a poor start to season 8 .
Disappointingly dull companion piece for Flesh for Frankenstein .	Count Dracula ( Udo Kier ) is dying . He needs fresh human blood , the blood of a ' pure wirgin ' as Dracula pronounces it . Dracula is to well known in Romania to be able to locate a virgin , so together with his servant Anton ( Arno Juerging ) he sets out to Italy to find one , because of the Italians strict religious upbringing they believe the chances of finding a virgin will be high . Upon arrival they question some locals and learn of a married couple who live nearby , the Marquis ( Vittorio Di Sicca ) and Marquise Di Fiore ( Maxime McKendry ) who have four unmarried daughters , Esmeralda ( Milena Vukotic ) , Saphiria ( Dominique Darel ) , Rubinia ( Stefania Casini ) , and Perla ( Silvia Dionisio ) . The Marquis has gambled the Di Fiore's family money away and by marrying one of their daughters off to a sick looking Dracula they think they will inherit his money when he dies . Dracula and Anton are invited to stay at their large , but run down house . Once there Dracula has the opportunity suck all the blood he needs , but thanks to Mario Balato ( Joe Dallesandro ) the Di Fiore's servant , some of the girls aren't as pure as Dracula needs . Before long Mario becomes suspicious of the Count , but will he find out the truth too late ? Written and directed by Paul Morrissey I was very disappointed by this extremely talky , overlong and rather dull excuse for a horror film . In fact it's more of a historical drama / sex film rather than horror . There's a lot of naked flesh and sex on show , the girls even go topless when gardening . There are only three gore scenes in the whole film , two scenes where Kier violently throws up impure blood and when Dracula is gorily killed at the end with an axe . After the funny black humour and over the top gore of Flesh for Frankenstein , which was made at the same time with some of the same cast and crew , I was expecting more of the same . Unfortunately I didn't get it . The film looks quite nice having being filmed in real historic locations in Europe and Kier is watchable as Count Dracula , as he always is . But the film just takes too long for anything interesting to happen and it becomes very boring to watch . There are very few characters in the film , once Dracula arrives at the Di Fiore's house the Di Fiore's themselves , their daughters , Mario , Dracula and Anton are the only characters seen on screen for the whole of the rest of the film . Apart from some nice scenery there is very little to recommend here for horror fans , disappointing .
" There are very few people in this world who go out in a state of psycho analytical grace . " Dour Quincy episode .	Quincy M . E . : Gentle Into the Night starts as terminal cancer sufferer Brian Foyte ( Kevin O'Brien ) dies in a car accident , he ends up on L . A . coroner Quincy's ( Jack Klugman ) autopsy table where it seems like an open & shut case . However Quincy learns that insurance company won't pay out because they feel it was suicide , he goes down there to talk with them & meets a Dr . George Pendleton ( Michael Constantine ) who works with terminally ill patients . Dr . Pendleton proves that Brian didn't commit suicide which grabs Quincy's attention , later that day Quincy has to tell a man that his wife has been murdered & he feels he made the guy feel worse so he ask's Dr . Pendleton to give him some advice about helping people grieve & cope with death . Episode 7 from season 7 this Quincy story was directed by the show's regular executive producer David Moessinger & to be honest on this evidence he should have stuck to the hiring & firing rather than the directing side of the series . I am a big fan of Quincy in general as it has a wide variety of story lines , it can vary it's approach & tackle various relevant issues which is all well & good but the reason I like Quincy so much & I suspect many other people as well is because the show usually has a good intriguing murder mystery which Quincy has to use his medical knowledge to solve . Unfortunately Gentle Into the Night is one of those dull episodes where there is no crime at all & is more intent on exploring a sentimental moralistic issue rather than have Quincy solve a crime , all I can say is if it ain't broke don't fix it . Basically this is a poor episode which is boring , depressing & pretty hard to sit through where Quincy himself become almost irrelevant as the issue of the day takes center stage here being terminal illness & the moral issues surrounding death & grieving . One more thing , why is an L . A . county coroner allowed to take over Dr . Pendleton's job for a couple of days ? Doesn't Quincy have any work himself ? Who pays Quincy's wages exactly ? In what official capacity or context is Quincy permitted to work with terminal cancer sufferers ? The script doesn't have any of the show's regular light humour & is all rather too sombre & slow for my liking . Anyway , this is one of my least favourite episodes that doesn't really need Quincy in it at all . This one features Tyne Daly in her first cancer related story as she would later have another cancer related story in Cagney and Lacey ( 1982 - 1988 ) . There's not much to really say about this episode as it's rather bland & forgettable . The guest cast do OK but again I'd have liked to have seen a bit more of the regulars who seem to be getting less & less screen time as the series progresses as a whole . Gentle Into the Night is maybe my least favourite episode of Quincy that I can remember seeing so far & over the years I have seen them all . What can I say ? I love the show usually but I pretty much hate this episode .
Poor Quincy episode .	Quincy M . E . : Give Me Your Weak starts as David Bowman ( Roderick Ewing ) a sufferer of a rare neurological disorder called myoclonus commits suicide & end sup on L . A . coroner Quincy's ( Jack Klugamn ) autopsy table . All the evidence points to suicide , Quincy then learns from his old friend Dr . Arthur Ciotti ( Michael Constantine ) that David was making good progress while taking a new drug but the doctor who developed the drug had his funding taken away & couldn't provide it anymore & David was reverting back to a point where he couldn't even walk on his own . Quincy sets out on a moral crusade to get the Government , the drug agencies & the pharmaceutical companies to work together & develop drugs for rare ' unprofitable ' diseases like myoclonus . . . Episode 3 from season 8 this Quincy story was directed by Georg Fenady & is the third rubbish Quincy episode in a row , I think it's safe to say season 8 isn't the show's finest hour & if things carry on like this it's not hard to see why the show was canned & never made it to season 9 . Show's like Quincy rely on a strong fan base as well as the casual viewer & so far during season 8 there's very little of what I personally like about the show & I just can't see these poor & frankly dull morality tales appealing to casual viewers either , I just can't . Quincy is barely in this one , he gets to make a few passionate speeches but does virtually zero lab work , there's no crime to investigate unless you count suicide because technically it's illegal although you'll have a hard prosecuting & there's not much mystery or interest in who did it ! All I'll say is if it isn't broke don't fix it & I just wish the makers of Quincy had followed that simple yet relevant saying . Quincy gets to go to Washington in this episode but it's obviously mostly studio bound . Give Me Your Weak feels like either a remake or a sequel to Seldom Silent , Never Heard from season 6 back in 1981 as both are almost exactly the same & features a couple of the cast from that episode in recurring roles . Also making an appearance here is Robert Ginty a couple of years after he was dishing out revenge on those who killed his mate in the exploitation classic The Exterminator ( 1980 ) . Give Me Your Weak is a poor Quincy story & that's coming from someone who considers themselves a big fan of the show , no crime means a dull episode & they don't come much duller than this .
Another Hellraiser sequel that has little to do with the original .	Hellraiser : Hellworld starts as four internet Hellworld game playing addicts get an invite to the 5th Annual Hellworld party at Leviathan House , Allison ( Anna Tolputt ) & her boyfriend Derrick ( Khary Payton ) are up for it as is Mike ( Henry Cavill ) but Chelsea ( Katheryn Winnick ) takes some persuading although eventually she agrees to go . Once there they find that Leviathan House was designed by the architect L'Merchant who also designed & built the Lamont Chinese puzzle box that serves as a gateway between Earth & hell . There the four friends are welcomed by the host ( Lance Henriksen ) & are in for one ' hell ' of a time . . . Like the previous two Hellraiser films Hellraiser : Hellseeker ( 2002 ) & Hellraiser : Deader ( 2005 ) this was directed by Rick Bota & one has to say that it would have probably worked a lot better without the tenuous Hellraiser connections . The script by Carl Dupre was apparently based on a an idea called ' Dark Can't Breathe ' & was unconnected to the Hellraiser franchise which comes across in the finished film since any relation to the brooding horror of Clive Barker's masterful original is purely coincidental & the whole Hellraiser , Pinhead & Cenobite elements feel tacked on & a little bit out of place at times . Hellraiser : Hellworld is an odd film to try & review , for the majority of the running time it feels like Hellraiser crossed with The House on Haunted Hill ( 1999 ) with lots of ghastly goings on in a large house but then everything is turned on it's head in a fairly clever twist ending that is a touch implausible but certainly surprises . Unfortunately Hellraiser : Hellworld doesn't know when to quit & there at least another two awful twist endings after which make zero sense . Also there are problems with the twists & there are one or two plot holes . Despite the whole point of the film being about the suicide of Adam & the twist endings depending on it it's odd that the makers never go into any great detail about his suicide , why he committed suicide & the reasons behind it are strangely never touched upon apart from one vague flashback & something about him ' going to far ' . Such a crucial & pivotal aspect to the story is all but ignored & that means the twist ending lacks any real punch & meaning despite being fairly clever . There's also some silly plotting that is below your average teen slasher flick , the character's aren't the greatest & like most of the Hellraiser sequels Pinhead gets about one minute of screen time & the gore is tame . Director Bota does alright , he films in a glossy Hollywood style that looks nice enough but the dark gritty visuals of the original Hellraiser films are long gone . The gore & violence isn't up to much , someone is sliced in half , there's a decent decapitation , someone is impaled on a hook & there's a fair amount of blood splatter but nothing overly memorable . The film certainly isn't scary & there's not much of an atmosphere either . I don't like how self referential the film is either in the way Scream ( 1996 ) made so popular , people wearing T-shirts with pictures of Pinhead on , Hellraiser props in people's rooms & all the self homage dialogue . The film just feels too safe & too mainstream . Hellrasier : Hellworld was in fact the eighth Hellraiser film but they stopped numbering them in the titles after Hellraiser III : Hell on Earth ( 1992 ) . According to the IMDb Hellraiser : Hellworld had a very sizable budget of about $5 , 000 , 000 which considering it went straight-to-DVD is a fair old chunk of change , I can't really see where the money went to be honest since it's well made for sure but hardly outstanding . Like the previous entry Hellraiser : Deader which was filmed back-to-back with Hellraiser : Hellworld this was filmed in Bucharest in Romania although set in America . The acting is alright although I am not happy with Lance Henriksen in this , he deserves much better than this & is a great actor . Hellraiser : Hellwrold is a relatively dull teen slasher set in a big house for the most part but then it finishes with several twist endings which if you think about them don't really make a whole lot sense .
Below average episode that feels more like a soap opera .	Quincy M . E . : Quincy's Wedding : Part 1 starts a mere two week before Los Angeles chief medical examiner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) is due to marry psychiatrist Dr . Emily Hanover ( Anita Gillette ) but he seems hesitant & nervous . Meanwhile life still goes on as well as death , the latest body to arrive on Quincy's autopsy table is that of the elderly Roy Brackett ( John McIntire ) who at first seems to have died from heart failure & as such natural causes . But then Quincy gets a visit from his widow Edna ( Jeanette Nolan ) who admits to killing him , Quincy is sceptical at first but feels there might be something to her story when she talks about specialised drugs & techniques for administering them . . . Episode 17 from season 8 this is obviously the two part story where Quincy ties the knot & get married for the second time , you know I have to say I don't like the way Quincy as a series was going particularly in the generally poor season eight as it just felt like the makers were trying to turn the show into a soap opera amongst other things . I'm sorry but that's not what Quincy was about & that's not why I liked the show so much , I'm just not interested in the sort of rubbish moral issues & soap opera style shenanigan's that went on during the majority of season eight . This episode has to be considered a disappointment , there's a bit of humour revolving around the wedding planner Winslow as well as a slow moving & horribly predictable murder mystery which gets very little screen time as to stretch it out over two episodes but otherwise Quincy's Wedding : Part 1 is poor & pretty much typifies most of what was wrong with Quincy at this point & why a season nine was never commissioned . It seems that Quincy is pulling out all the stops for his wedding with a lavish outdoor setting . I feel a little sorry for him having to sell his boat though , over the previous seven & a half seasons it's made clear how much he loves his boat & I see it as another aspect of Quincy that the makers were trying to get rid off & change , another important aspect of Quincy I might add . The acting is alright but the regulars are better than the guests as they always are . Quincy's Wedding : Part 1 is closer to a soap opera as it is a proper Quincy episode & that ladies & gentlemen is why I didn't like it & if I'm totally honest I don't even want to watch Part 2 ( even though I already have ) .
OK Quincy episode .	Quincy M . E . : Physician , Heal Thyself starts as seventeen year old Julie Reed ( Tara Buckman ) staggers into the Bennett Clinic where she ask's for an abortion , highly experienced & well respected Dr . Ronald Shafer ( John Dehner ) performs the abortion as requested but Julie dies on the operating table . Julie's parents contact Dr . Asten ( John S . Ragin ) in order to arrange a private autopsy which they will pay for , Asten gives the case to Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) who notices that the abortion wasn't done very well . He decides to investigate further & subsequently finds out that Dr . Shafer has a drink problem & regularly turns up to work to perform vital operations & surgical procedures drunk , outraged Quincy is determined to stop him before he kills anyone else but it isn't as easy as he first thought it would be . . . Episode 18 from season 4 this Quincy story was directed by Corey Allen & is one of those largely moralistic Quincy episodes where he finds himself on some sort of crusade against bureaucracy , red tape , inadequate laws , incompetence & unhelpful people in authority . He pretty much takes on the whole system as usual . The themes here in Physician , Heal Thyself are rather standard issues dealing with alcohol problems & people make life & death decisions letting the alcohol rule their lives & therefore putting others at risk . There's also a stab at trying to say that keeping your mouth shut when you know someone who turns up for work drunk isn't good , which it isn't . It ends on a anti drink message which most will probably laugh at . It also points out some inadequacies in the law like usual & it's all rather familiar & routine feeling . There's nothing here amazing or overly enthralling either , it's OK I suppose & if you like these moralistic Quincy episodes then you may enjoy it but for most of us this isn't exactly going to knock our socks off . A largely talkative & exposition based episode nothing of any real note happens , there's no murder ( technically there isn't ) & no mystery which doesn't help . It's just a bland fifty minutes of preaching more than anything else , sure it's always fun to watch Quincy run around getting angrier & angrier at people as he fights red tape & bureaucracy but that can only entertain to a certain extent . The acting is OK & Quincy gets to gatecrash a posh country golf club . Physician , Heal Thyself is a standard fairly dull moralistic Quincy episode that fans will probably like but more casual viewers may find the going a little slow .
Not very good .	The Thirst starts as exotic dancer Lisa ( Clare Kramer ) is taken to hospital after falling ill on stage , she has terminal cancer but hasn't told her boyfriend Maxx ( Matt Keesler ) although it's not long before he finds out & is slightly annoyed that she didn't tell him . Maxx is depressed , Lisa is depressed & things just aren't looking great . As a potential solution Lisa decides to commit suicide because , you know , that would cheer everyone up wouldn't it ? Maxx is understandably upset , he & a couple of his buddies decide to pay a visit to an S & M club called Inferono where he thinks he sees Lisa . Going back the next night he manages to catch up with her & it is indeed Lisa , unfortunately she's now a bloodsucking Vampire who hangs around with other bloodsucking Vampires who kill people . Lisa manages to convince the head Vampire guy Darius ( Jeremy Sisto ) to spare Maxx & let him become one of them which he does , however being a bloodsucking Vampire isn't as fun as it sounds . . . Co-written & directed by Jeremy Kasten this Vampire flick has a fair amount of blood & gore but little else by which to recommend it . The script by Kasten , Ben Lustig , Liz Maccie , Wayne Mahon & Mark A . Altman ( it took five people to write this ? ! ? ! ) is more or less a Near Dark ( 1987 ) rip-off although while Near Dark had great character's , acting & writing The Thirst clearly & most definitely doesn't . The plot feels pretty bad & unoriginal , it's not any fun to watch apart from some over-the-top gore scenes & it neither interested me or drew me in to the action . The character's are poor as is the dialogue & there's nothing here we haven't seen dozens of times before . It moves along at a nice enough pace & isn't overly boring but there was just something about it , something dull which meant I just couldn't get into the story or action . I certainly didn't think it was anything special & I think by the end of the week I'd have completely forgotten about it . Director Kasten does alright but I thought the film lacked energy or any sort of atmosphere & it certainly isn't scary . There are pleasing amounts of gore & the filmmakers use old fashion prosthetic make-up effects rather than CGI computer effects but most of it is pretty much the same with huge sprays of blood coming from people's wounds , there's some guts here as well , someone gets a finger in the side of their head , there are shots of the remains of cats that have been torn to pieces , someone gets a lamp shoved down their throat & several people get their throats ripped out but the blood looks a bit watery & once you have seen one huge spray of arterial blood you've frankly seen them all . There is also a fair amount of nudity & naked female breasts if that sort of thing interests you although none of the actresses are anything special in the looks department . With a supposed budget of about $2 , 000 , 000 The Thirst had a bigger budget than I was expecting & personally I'd have liked to have seen a bit more on screen action for that sort of cash . The acting isn't anything to write home about & the cast aren't that good looking either . The Thirst is a below average Vampire horror flick , it's OK on a basic level but there's nothing memorable here beside some gory Vampire bite wounds . Worth a watch if your a Vampire junkie or die hard horror fan otherwise there's nothing much here of any worth .
A depressing episode of Quincy .	Quincy M . E . : Honor Thy Elders starts as Los Angeles coroner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) has to autopsy the body of eighty one year old Randall Morgan , it quickly becomes apparent that he took an overdose of drugs & killed himself while in hospital . Quincy tries to understand why & thinks that a broken arm & rib points to parent abuse , Quincy thinks the man committed suicide rather than go back home to his abusive son Timothy ( Joby Baker ) . Talking to his friend Sharon Ross ( Julie Adams ) who runs a treatment centre for the elderly Quincy realise that parent abuse is rife throughout society & that no-one apart from a dedicated & sympathetic few seem to care . . . Episode 12 from season 5 this Quincy story was directed by Ray Danton & Honor Thy Elders is a none stop conscience pricking morality tale all the way for each of it's fifty minute duration . I will be straight with you , I love Quincy when he's using his medical & forensic skills to solve a murder or prove some sort of crime & I really dislike the show when it gets too preachy like it does here in Honor Thy Elders . I am certainly not against mixing a good solid murder mystery with a bit of social moralising like seen in the previous episode Murder by S . O . P . ( 1979 ) but when it's as heavy handed & as preachy as Honor Thy Elders I tend to lose interest very quickly . The other major factor about this episode that I didn't like was how God damned depressing it was , it's all rather sombre & meant to make us feel guilty about how we as society treat the elderly which it probably does to an extent but that doesn't mean I want to sit down for fifty minutes & feel bad ! The plot is also a bit , well bitty I suppose . It shifts from one set of elderly people with problems to another fairly quickly & then back to Quincy fighting bureaucracy & back again . The production teams efforts to raise issues such as this are commendable but I just don't find these sorts of episodes fun to watch at all & you have to say that Honor Thy Elders is probably the type of episode that got Quincy cancelled . Honor Thy Elders is a largely forgettable episode , it's reasonably well made for what it is but there's nothing memorable here . There's no murder , there's no mystery , there's no suspense , there's no action & overall Honor Thy Elders is one of the worst episodes in an otherwise splendid fifth season . The acting is alright again with Klugman excelling as Quincy . Julie Adams who has built an entire career around the fact she starred in Creature from the Black Lagoon ( 1954 ) makes the second of her three guest appearances on the show . Honor Thy Elders is a pretty sombre & rather depressing episode of Quincy that I doubt I would ever want to watch again , this just isn't the Quincy that I like so much but for what it sets out to do it's reasonably successful .
The worst episode from season three ? Maybe .	Quincy M . E . : Main Man starts on Saturday November 25th as the Arroya Junior College Bears are set to play the Corona Valley Panthers in a game of American football , things are going well for the Bears with home advantage but the teams star player 19 year old Frank Daniels ( Michael F . Kelly ) suddenly & tragically collapses & dies on the field . Los Angeles coroner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) gets the job of finding out how Frank died , after the autopsy & some tests it becomes clear to Quincy that Frank died from a cyst in his brain that became detached when he was tackled on the field . Quincy knows his stuff & determines that the cyst was congenital & that Franks brother Steve ( Scott Colomby ) might have the same rare condition , Quincy warns the boy's father Walter ( Eugene Roche ) but he wants his son to compete in an important game the following Friday , a game which if he is right Quincy fears could kill Steve . . . Episode 8 from season 3 this Quincy story was directed by Ray Danton ( also co-writer ) & without wishing to sound unkind is for my money the worst Quincy episode from the whole of the third season which otherwise is pretty much uniformly excellent with some great episodes . Now , I like the Quincy episodes where he has to use his medical knowledge & skills to uncover a crime & / or catch a murderer while I find the stories which concentrate on some moral issue very dull , usually patronising & when viewed today often very outdated . Unfortunately for Main Man it falls very much into the later type of story & therefore I didn't like it , simple as that really . You know while watching this yesterday I was thinking to myself what possible reason could either Steve or his dad Walter have to make him play that football game when he might have the same brain condition that killed Steve's brother & Walter's other son less than a week before ? I know about the nonsense where Walter wanted Steve to succeed but at the cost of his life ? I'm sorry & I know people do all sorts of strange things but I was never convinced by anything either Steve or Walter said that prevented him getting checked out at the Hospital . At the usual 50 minutes ( without commercials ) in length Main Man had little to sustain my interest , there's no murder mystery , there's no suspense or intrigue & this one is more about Quincy's diplomatic skills rather than his medical ones , a disappointment & not an episode I'd ever be in any hurry to see again . This time around Quincy gets assaulted & roughed up by a team of American football players repeatedly throwing the ball as hard as they can into his stomach ! Also check out Quincy's stylish 70's shirt during this scene , it's well groovy . Otherwsie Main Man is pretty unremarkable & forgettable . I did spot a goof at the end though , the football game where the end scenes are shot is supposed to be between the ( obviously fictitious ) Bears & Bobcats but there's a banner in the stands which clearly says ' Go Bulldogs ' which I would assume is the name of one of the real football teams that were playing when this was shot . The acting is alright , again though it's the regular's that impress while Julie Adams makes the first of her three guest appearances on Quincy all playing different character's although she is perhaps best known for her role as the love interest of the fish-man from The Creature from the Black Lagoon ( 1954 ) ! Main Man is in my opinion the worst Quincy episode of season three & it's as simple & straight forward as that . No murder , no mystery & no entertainment , even the cheesy happy comedy ending involving pizza can't save it .
Average Quincy episode to kick off the sixth season .	Quincy M . E . : Last Rights starts in the small Californian county of Stoker which has a population of 28 , 361 but that is quickly reduced to 28 , 360 when local businessman Wayne Fields ( Warren Stevens ) finds the dead body of his teenage son Cory with an empty drug container near by , considering Cory had a drug addiction problem his father assumes that he died from an overdose which will look bad all round so he puts pressure on county commissioner Bill Sullivan ( Philip Abbott ) to keep it quiet . New forensic pathologist Dr . Charlie Volmer ( William Daniels ) comes under huge pressure to ignore Cory's death & put it down as an accident but he refuses which upsets a lot of powerful people . Volmer turns to Los Angeles medical examiner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) for help in resolving the situation . . . Episode 1 from season 6 this Quincy story was directed by Georg Fenady & one has to say that I thought Last Rights was a throughly lacklustre opening to the sixth season . Traditionally Quincy season openers are very good but Last Rights is a really dull fifty odd minutes , there's no murder , no mystery , there's lots of badly dated heavy handed moralistic preaching that I don't think is even relevant these days & the main man himself Quincy takes a back seat in the episode as his mate Volmer becomes the focus . I was unimpressed . The whole message about people only wanting to know the truth when it's convenient for them might have made a decent platform for a good episode but most of the events here are very predictable & there are an awful lot of coincidences that happen in a short space of time which first gets Volmer into a sticky situation & then just as quickly gets him out of it . The character's are one dimensional walking clichés ( a corrupt businessman who uses his power to try & get what he wants , uncaring politicians , drugged up teenagers , an owner of a local company who turns out to be a big bully only interested in money & a local small time reporter who no-one will listen to until Quincy show's up ) & there isn't even any humour in this episode either . Mostly set inside Stoker county Last Rights looks OK & is competently made if unspectacular , it certainly isn't much to look at . Larger than life character actor Cliffton James plays a bad guy while William Daniels plays Volmer , he has a voice you will probably recognise but not a face which can be quite frustrating but a quick check of his IMDb profile reveals he actually provided the voice of K . I . T . T . in Knight Rider ( 1982 - 1986 ) which explains it & he also appeared in all 137 episodes of St . Elsewhere ( 1982 - 1988 ) . Klugman again is on top form , the only time Last Rights comes to life is at the very end when he stands before a committee & has to make an impassioned speech about the integrity & need for forensic pathology . Last Rights is a disappointing start to to the sixth season of Quincy , this just has none of the elements that I usually find so entertaining about the show apart from the always watchable Klugman & his fine performance . Luckily things improve .
Slightly below average Quincy episode .	Quincy M . E . : Sweet Land of Liberty starts late one night as LAPD cops Kemper ( Paul Tuerpe ) & DiGregorio ( Bert Santos ) investigate a possible stolen car parked outside a house , they knock on the door of the house & a Japanese woman named Lee ( Nobu McCarthy ) answers . The two cops ask to speak to her husband Steve ( Bill Saito ) who panics & has a violent attack in which he shoots Kemper dead . Kemper ends up on Los Angeles coroner Quincy's ( Jack Klugman ) autopsy table , it seems an open & shut case . But then Sam ( Robert Ito ) notices on the police report who is accused of killing the cop , Steve was like a brother to Sam while he was growing up & Sam refuses to believe that Steve could kill a young cop in cold blood for no reason . Then the next morning & Steve is found hanged in his cell , Sam is determined to clear Steve's name & find out what made him kill a cop & take his own life . . . Episode 6 from season 5 this Quincy story was directed by Robert Loggia & one has to say that I didn't think that much of it . For a start there's no real mystery element in it at all , there's no murder to solve or killer to find & that hurts the overall interest level . Then there's the fact that Quincy takes a back seat for this episode & it's Sam who orchestrates the moral crusade , in the case of Sweet Land of Liberty against the US Army for giving experimental drugs to interrogation victims . This of course raises the issues surrounding human experimentation , the US Army thinking it can do whatever it wants & the after effect of such treatment on it's soldiers which can last for decades . This isn't anything new though , is it ? I mean we have had all sorts of films & telly programmes in which Vietnam vets go mad , go on killing sprees & / or are unable to readjust to normal civilian society . Despite Sam being a good character he usually plays second fiddle to Quincy which is just the way it should be , I mean this episode proves that beyond any shadow of a doubt . Sam's alright but he ain't no Quincy ! Then again who is ? At fifty minutes it's a little slow at times , the story lacks a hook or any intrigue , the character's are pretty clichéd & it's far too predictable . Does anyone out there not believe Sam & Quincy will not prove Steve innocent ? Also the fact that the young cops death seems secondary to everyone doesn't help matters , it's clear that Steve killed the cop & that's that . I don't care whether he wasn't responsible for his actions he still killed him & yet he is talked about like a hero . Didn't sit too well with me at all , just like the episode in general . The climax of Sweet Land of Liberty sees Quincy & Sam in Washington attend a full military funeral at Arlington , this is probably one of the few times they filmed outside California . Unusually this is a Danny free episode , in fact Danny's bar doesn't even feature either . The acting is alright , Klugman is just brilliant as usual ( his arguing with Jim at the end in particular ) but he doesn't get much to do as this episode is all about Sam & I'm sorry but Ito just isn't a strong enough performer to carry a emotionally loaded episode such as this . Ex professional baseball player Stack Pierce makes the second of his three Quincy guest appearances here . Sweet Land of Liberty isn't classic Quincy , in fact one could rename this episode to Sam L . A . ( Laboratory Asisstant ) ! This one didn't do much for me at all & the cop that Steve killed was too easily forgotten .
Crime free Quincy .	Quincy M . E . : The Golden Hour starts as Bruce Anderson ( Leonard Stone ) & his teenage daughter Sherry ( Heidi Bohay ) are involved in a car crash , the paramedics are on the scene in no time & get to work . Sherry seems fine apart from a few broken bones but her father looks in a bad way , Mike ( George DelHoyo ) the attending paramedic defies the rules & sends Bruce to Memorial Hills trauma center even though it's not the nearest hospital because he feels it's the only hospital in the area equipped to treat Bruce . Meanwhile Sherry is sent to the much nearer Valley View emergency hospital where she dies of complications & ends up on L . A . coroner Quincy's ( Jack Klugman ) autopsy table . Quincy comes to the conclusion Sherry died from internal bleeding which wasn't spotted , as he digs deeper into her death he becomes enraged when he realises patients are sent to the nearest hospital as opposed the best equipped & he decides to try & change the rules in favour of the patient . . . Episode 2 from season 7 this Quincy story was directed by Georg Fenady & is yet another story where the basis firmly lies on telling a moral issue , generally I love the show but I don't like these dull moral crusades which revolve around some personal tragedy rather than than the intriguing murder mysteries in which Quincy has to use his knowhow to solve a crime . To make matters even worse with The Golden Hour the message it's trying to get across is totally irrelevant these days , I'm sorry but I simply do not believe any hospital in the Western world in the year 2007 would not have a team of in-house surgeons on call or could not cope with a road accident so that in itself makes this episode extremely dated & basically pointless . Sure we still get Klugman as Quincy fighting bureaucracy & red tape the way only he can but medical techniques have come a long way since The Golden Hour first aired in 1981 & this is one of the few Quincy episodes to have so badly dated to the point where it has absolutely no relevance at all . A disappointing story , not that much actually happens , it's a bit predictable & it's definitely not one of my favourites . As I've mentioned The Golden Hour has not stood the test of time at all well , I simply don't believe hospitals & paramedics operate like this anymore & they certainly don't here in the UK . The guest cast aren't so great here with some poor performances . Since no crime takes place Lt . Monahan , Sgt . Brill & Dr . Asten are totally absent from this episode until the final couple of minutes in the obligatory ' light hearted feel good ' climax in Danny's . The Golden Hour has to be one of the worst Quincy episodes out there , I'm a big fan of the show but even this great series produced some poor stories & this is one of them I'm afraid , anyone new to Quincy & watching this as their first episode probably wouldn't go back for seconds .
Not the sort of episode I enjoy but I can see what it's trying to do .	Quincy M . E . : Scream to the Skies starts as Transglobal passenger flight 442 carrying 147 crew & passengers from Los Angeles to Chicago is struck by lightening & is forced to land in the Ocean just off the coast . Word quickly reaches the emergency services & a full scale rescue is mounted , the Los Angeles county coroner's office has the unpleasant task of performing the autopsies & identifying the dead including Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) who is devastated by what he sees . Upset by all the needless death & fully aware that most if not all of the passengers exited the crashed plane safely only to die of hypothermia in the freezing Ocean waters Quincy sets out on a campaign to make sure all commercial flights over water are equipped with life rafts . . . Episode 11 from season 6 this Quincy story was directed by Ron Satlof & is an odd episode for a few reasons . For a start I should say that Scream to the Skies is an entirely moralistic episode that was produced solely for the reason of highlighting inadequacies in airline safety & in particular the absence of life rafts on planes although sitting here writing this in 2008 some twenty seven years after Scream to the Skies was made I am not sure if that message is still relevant or whether planes are now obliged to carry life rafts . The one unusual aspect of Scream to the Skies as a Quincy episode is that Quincy spends the first half of the episode really depressed , not talking to anyone & refusing to go back to work which is totally unheard of for the character . But then about halfway through he miraculously snaps out of it & tries to get the Government to force the FAA to make life rafts compulsory before a strangely downbeat ending in which the airline takes out a court order against Quincy saying anything that might hurt their business . I must admit that I like the murder mystery episodes of Quincy & Scream to the Skies has no murder , no mystery , Quincy doesn't get to use his medical skills & knowledge to solve a crime & the first half of the episode is quite annoying watching Quincy sit around feeling sorry for himself . Scream to the Skies features some Plan 9 from Outer Space ( 1959 ) style special effects , the model plane that crashes at the start looks terrible & you can see it held up by wires . Also while watching the start I was wondering where all the other emergency services were , why would Qyuincy a medical examiner be the first one on the scene & as far as I could see the only doctor there ? Wouldn't there have been helicopters & dozens of boats ? According to the IMDb certain scenes in this were shot at Bob Hope Airport . The one thing that makes Scream to the Skies watchable is another compelling performance from Klugman who is again superb in the role , from sadness & sorrow to anger & determination he gives a terrific performance here . Scream to the Skies is not the sort of Quincy episode that I enjoy & I will say right now that I didn't like it at all but for another top performance from Klugman . There are much better episodes out there than this heavy handed moralistic nonsense .
More moral nonsense .	Quincy M . E . : Suffer the Little Children starts as Dr . Asten ( John S . Ragin ) ask's Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) to stop off at Bower County on his fishing holiday to help autopsy a seven year old boy named Christopher Reano ( Carl Stein ) who died at a care-home for children called Green Springs Retreat . The local pathologist & GP Dr . Curtis ( Tony Dow ) needs expert collaborative validation to help close Green Springs which keeps the children in appalling conditions , Quincy agrees with Curtis & is shocked at the state of Green Springs & the general state of child care in California . . . Episode 21 from season 8 this Quincy story was directed by William Cairncross & starts off promisingly enough but descends into some horrible moralistic family drama . The opening twenty odd minutes are pretty good as Quincy is shocked at what he finds at the Green Springs Retreat & lays into several people in the way only he can but then things switch back to Los Angeles & his wife Emily takes over & it becomes some awful moralistic drama about the break up of the family & the state of the welfare system . It's horrible , Quincy takes a back seat & barely features after the opening twenty minutes with Emily living with the family she is trying to save . That's all well & good but how can the state provide a psychiatrist for literally every family who has problems ? They can't , it would cost a fortune & I'm sure there aren't enough psychiatrist's to go around anyway . Boring horrible moral drama rubbish that pretty much keeps in line with much of season eight . I really don't think child care homes are as bad as this these days , I certainly think there are minimum standards & a home like Green Springs wouldn't get a licence . Some of the scenes in this are unintentionally funny , the part when Emily is role playing with the family & she assumes the role of the little kid while talking to his mum is rather funny . The acting is OK but the regulars are better than the guests . Suffer the Little Children ( the IMDb is wrong it's definitely Suffer the Little Children & not just Suffer the Children ) is another horrible moralistic outdated Quincy episode , just the sort of think I find hard to watch . Another disappointment from the largely disappointing season eight .
The worst of the Hammer House of Horror stories .	Hammer House of Horror : Growing Pains starts as 10 year old William Morton ( Christopher Reilly ) breaks into his father's lab & eats something he shouldn't , within minutes he has suffered a violent & agonising death . William's parents Terence ( Gary Bond ) & Laurie ( Barbara Kellerman ) are obviously upset but sensibly decide to move on , they adopt a young boy named James ( Matthew Blakstad ) but things don't go too well . Besides maggots in the dinner steaks & James gutting his toy rabbit with a knife he seems almost possessed . . . Originally airing in October 1980 here in the UK Growing Pains was episode 4 from this short lived British horror anthology TV series produced by Hammer studios that comprised just 13 episodes across a solitary season , directed by Francis Megahy I have to say that I thought Growing pains was the single worst Hammer House of Horror episode but then there had to be one ' worst ' episode didn't there ? The script by Nicholas Palmer starts off quite well & has a reasonable ghost story as it's central concept but the last 15 minutes when the ghost of William show's up it turns into some unintentionally funny comedy . I thought the story could have been told much better than it was , for a start if William blamed his father for neglecting him what about his mom ? Surely she did too ? I mean she wanted to ' replace ' him just as much as his dad . Then there's the fact the little bugger ate the chemical on his own , I'm not being funny here but it's his own bloody fault he ended up dead ! Then there's no explanation whatsoever as to why he is able to come back from beyond the grave & pester his parents & as a whole Growing Pains just doesn't work that well & is poorly written with bland character's & increasingly sillier situations . This TV series looks very good , it was obviously shot on proper 35mm film & the experience Hammer had in making feature films was obviously used here to make these 50 minute stories look cinematic . The total lack of studio filming & the fact it was shot entirely on location means they have a realistic look too even if it is somewhat dated , I'm not being funny here but don't you think late 70's Ford Capri's with ' go faster ' stripes down the side look awful ? ! There's a distinct lack of gore in this one , sure there's some cut open rabbits but nothing else , this is also rather light on scares & while not wishing to sound unkind I think Growing Pains works better as a black comedy than a straight horror . The acting is forgettable , I'm not sure if the makers wanted Blakstad to put in an annoying , bland & emotionless performance but that's exactly what they got . Growing Pains is my least favourite Hammer House of Horror episode , maybe I'm being a bit harsh because it's still watchable I suppose but since so many of the other episodes are so good this can only be described as a disappointment . If you by the Hammer House of Horror DVD boxed set leave Growing Pains to last . . .
More of the same .	Quincy M . E . : Walk Softly Through the Night : Part 2 starts as Los Angeles chief medical examiner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) receives a phone-call from Lieutenant Monahan ( Garry Walberg ) saying that Dr . Mason Colella ( Charles Aidman ) has been shot & killed , Quincy's friend Marty Herrera ( A Martinez ) is the prime suspect since he was seen threatening Colella with a gun earlier that evening . Quincy finds it impossible to believe that Marty murdered Colella but all the evidence points to the fact that he did , in court Marty is made out to be a drug pusher & a murderer & will get life in prison unless Quincy can prove his innocence . . . Episode 15 from season 4 this Quincy story was directed by Paul Krasny & didn't do much for me at all . The second part of a two part story Walk Softly Through the Night started with some narrator guy saying ' now the exciting conclusion to Walk Softly Through the Night ' , I am not being funny here but maybe he mixed his scripts up since he got the conclusion bit right but the exciting bit wrong . I mean conclusion ? Yes . Exciting ? No way . This second part is pretty much the same as the first & all that it is interested in is telling us how bad drugs are , how we can't ignore the problem anymore & if we didn't already get the message it tells that drugs are bad some more . At the end of the first part to Walk Softly Through the Night there was a brief preview & it looked like there would be a murder & therefore this second part would be a more traditional Quincy episode but that's not really the case at all . In fact this might be the only time in the entire series where there is not a single laboratory scene in the entire episode , not one . There isn't an autopsy to speak of , Quincy doesn't do any detective work , neither Sam , Dr . Asten or Danny feature at all & the real killers identity is so obvious I felt the writer insulted my intelligence . In fact the ' mystery ' killer here is maybe the most predictable & obvious in the show's entire eight season run . Walk Softly Through the Night is one ( or rather two ) long anti drug message , there's no humour , the regular character's don't feature , there's no forensic detective work & there's no mystery . During this episode we see Uncle Buddy's Hollywood mansion , wow all I can say is dressing up as a clown must pay really well considering the house he has ! I wasn't too sure about certain elements of the trial either , I know Marty was trying to help his fellow students but he still brought drugs & sold them to his mates , surely by the letter of the law that is classed as drug dealing ? I know there are mitigating circumstances but would that make a huge difference ? Selling prescription only drugs to addicts would surely at least get you kicked out of school no matter what the circumstances ? The acting is alright here with Klugman again head & shoulders above everyone else . Walk Softly Through the Night : Part 2 is one long anti drug message , if you like your Quincy episodes moralistic & preachy then go ahead you'll love it . If however you like your Quincy episodes full of murder , intrigue , clever detective work & mystery then do yourself a favour & skip it .
Low budget film that can't decide what it wants to be .	A dark night somewhere in St . Louis , Susan Narcross ( Debi Chaney ) arrives home to find her roommate Jenny Thompson ( Pat Knapko ) murdered , impaled on a door with a spear . Detective Sergeant Paul Dollinger ( Nick Panouzis ) and his partner Detective Larry Mead ( Terry Ten Broeck ) are put on the case . They interview Susan who tells them of a date Jenny had been on that night with a man named Charlie ( Turk Chekovsky ) who had been in the office where they work earlier in the day looking for a job , and that they should question her boss Donald Andrews ( Bob Winters ) . The following day the two Detectives visit Andrews but he is unhelpful and evasive and seems to be hiding something . Meanwhile , Charlie steals a car and picks a hitchhiker ( Letty Garris ) up . He drives her to a beach , she decides to take all her clothes off and have a swim in the sea . Charlie follows her in and strangles her . Charlie's real name is Charles Gunther an ex Vietnam vet who recently escaped from the Illinois state mental hospital . The guy has gone psycho because of the violence he witnessed in Vietnam , and the fact that a Vietnamese prostitute ( Charlotte Littrel ) taunted and laughed at him when he couldn't get an erection ! Charlie has been hired by Stern ( Barron Winchester ) who runs a kangaroo court to correct injustices by the legal system and real courts , but Charlie has flipped his lid and is killing everyone he runs into , most of them being attractive young girls . After listening in on one of her bosses conversations and becomes suspicious , Susan herself becomes a target . Dollinger and Mead are baffled , all of their leads produce nothing but dead ends . Their Captain ( Harry Gorsuch ) is piling on the pressure , and they also have to deal with a sudden spate of suicides among criminals . Will they be able to save Susan and put an end to Stern's self righteous campaign of murder ? Directed by Peter Marris this is a bit of an odd film . It unsuccessfully blends various genres , little bits of horror with Charlie sticking pitchforks through girls throats and killing people with meat cleavers . War , there are various incredibly poorly done flashbacks of Charlie and Stern plus their fellow soldiers having gun fights in what looks like a football field and some local woods . Action , there's a small car chase with a few explosions and a shootout at the end . Romance as Mead and Susan become involved with each other , and crime with Stern trying to sort out St . Louis's injustices . It doesn't quite work , though . It's certainly different but just not very exciting or interesting . The script by Richard Yalem , who has a cameo as Peter Sykes who is thrown into the Mississippi in the opening sequence , is a little talky and reveals too much too soon , it might have helped if all these sub plots remained mystery's and were tied up at the end but instead the script reveals all very early on . Technically the film is poor , special effects , photography , acting , editing and music are all well below par . Talking of the music this film either borrows or more likely steals the theme tune to the British quiz show Mastermind , as someone who lives in the UK and has heard this music several times on Mastermind it sounds ridiculous to hear it on the soundtrack to this . I would probably describe this film as an interesting misfire . At least the makers tried to do something a little different , it's just a shame it doesn't quite work and the film lacks any kind of polish .
Moralistic Quincy .	The first part of Quincy M . E . : Walk Softly Through the Night ( nowhere during the opening titles does it actually ' Part 1 ' ) starts as the dead body of nineteen year old Ted Campbell ( Randy Stumpf ) is dumped outside Los Angeles county hospital . The next morning & Los Angeles coroner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) is called by his close friend Brock Campbell ( Michael Constantine ) who tells Quincy the news , Quincy says he will perform the autopsy personally . The autopsy reveals that Ted died from complications arising from taking drugs & he sets out to understand why no-one at Ted's college knew or did anything about his addiction , where he got his drugs from & to bring those responsible to justice . . . Episode 14 from season 4 this Quincy story was directed by Paul Krasny , the first of a two part story Walk Softly Through the Night is a very much hard hitting moralistic Quincy with minimal detective work . In fact the only laboratory scenes are when Quincy performs the autopsy , other than that this episode takes the moralistic high ground all the way . Obviously drugs are a big problem in our society , they always have been & to be honest lets face it they always will be & I seriously doubt if one fifty minute long episode of Quincy is going to change that many attitudes . I suppose the big difference in Walk Softly Through the Night is that instead of dealers on the street the production team tried to tackle the menace of corrupt Doctor's who proscribe addictive drugs on prescription for money , I am not sure how widespread this issue actually is & I must admit I have never heard of a case such as this here in the UK although I wouldn't be surprised if it does happen . So that's it really , there's the all too familiar message that drugs are bad , the message that society can't look the other way & ignore it forever & that advocate programs in school's work . There's no mystery elements , there's no murder , there's no real detective work & there's really not that much here that is particularly memorable . Brock just happens to work as a child's entertainer , dressed as a clown & it's quite funny to see him in full clown make-up & costume trying to plead with a long line of teenagers in an attempt to get them to stop using drugs . The episode is well made but unremarkable while the regular character's really don't get much to do in this one at all . The acting is alright & as usual the episode is saved by Klugman who is just excellent as always . Wak Softly Through the Night : Part 1 is an average moralistic episode of Quincy , at least it's social issue is still of relevance although it really doesn't say anything any bone head wouldn't already know . Part 2 returns to more traditional Quincy territory as there's a murder to solve .
" Maybe you've been watching too many of those horror movies . " Dull as dishwater .	The Haunted starts with a load of scrolling text that claims the film is based on true events blah , blah , blah you know the sort of thing . It's ' Halloween 1955 ' & Janet Smurl ( Sally Kirkland ) remembers her childhood & the spooky stories that surround a house in her town . Jump forward to ' August 1975 ' , Janet & her husband Jack ( Jeffrey DeMunn ) their two young daughters & Jack's Mum & Dad Mary ( Louise Latham ) & John ( George Wallace ) move into that very same house . At first things go well except for a few minor harmless unexplained occurrences . Now jump forward to ' March 1985 ' when the real trouble begins , Janet has had a further two daughters but things take a sinister turn for the worse . Janet begins to hear voices , she sees a ghost , electrical fires & all sorts of paranormal phenomena that gradually gets more & more threatening . The Smurl's seek help from the Church but they refuse to perform an exorcism , then they turn to psychic detectives & finally the press in a desperate attempt to rid their house of the ghosts & stop the family from being driven apart . Directed by Robert Mandel I thought The Haunted was a dull supernatural horror film . The script by Darrah Cloud is based on a book co-written by Janet & Jack Smurl ( probably the real ones ! ) & offers nothing new or exciting to the haunted house horror sub-genre , one of my least favourite type's of horror films . I've always found these type's of films really dull & predictable , I mean people hearing sinister voices , things opening & closing on their own , lights exploding & lots of boring melodramatics involving the break down of a family unit , it's all here , it hardly gets the pulse racing & The Haunted does nothing to distinguish itself from loads of other boring haunted house tales . The origins of the ghosts are almost left totally unexplained as is the throwaway line that puberty ( the two daughters grow up which is why it takes 10 years before the serious stuff starts to kick in ) in someway gives the spirits their powers & you can't help but feel if they had just moved it would have saved a lot of trouble & emotional anguish on their parts ! Having said that I suppose on a certain level it's watchable , the character's are OK , it moves along at a sedate pace but it's never excruciatingly boring & the supernatural activity is not too overblown or silly . The Haunted does what it sets out to do I suppose , it's far from the best or most exciting film ever but I've seen worse & I can't really criticize any specific part of it other than personally didn't really like it . Average at best . Director Mandel turns in a really lifeless film , it's bland , forgettable , flat , does not have one single scary scene in it & lacks any sort of atmosphere . The house chosen is just so ordinary & the film never builds or sustains any sort of tension or threat . The Haunted feels more like a family drama / soap opera as much as it does a horror , since I was hoping for a horror I can't say anything else other than I was disappointed by it . Technically this made-for-TV film lives up to that billing , the whole film feels & looks like the cheap TV film that it most definitely is . It's competently made & that's the best thing I say say about it , just don't expect a visual treat ! The acting was decent enough but I don't particularly remember anyone from it in either a positive or negative way . The Haunted is an adequate ghost film , it didn't do anything for me but I will concede that maybe there is an audience for a film such as this out there , somewhere . If you like dull soap opera melodramatics in your films then The Haunted is for you , if however you like decent horror , atmosphere , scares & a bit of excitement then I suggest that The Haunted most definitely isn't for you .
Disappointing third Evil Dead film .	Army of Darkness starts where Evil Dead II ( 1987 ) finishes with Ash ( Bruce Campbell ) finding himself stranded in the thirteenth century after he was transported back in time , there he is mistaken for an enemy warrior by Lord Arthur ( Marcus Gilbert ) & his men & taken prisoner . Back at Lord Arthur's castle Ash learns that unspeakable evils are terrorising Lord Arthur's people , in order to get back to the twentieth century & to rid the land of the evil Deadites Ash must undertake a quest to find the Necronomicon , or the Book of the Dead as Ash know's it . Ash has to go it alone as he faces trouble from the evil dead & the book itself along the way as he tries to get back home . . . Co-edited , co-written & directed by Sam Raimi this is the third film in his Evil Dead franchise , also known under the title Army of Darkness : The Medieval Dead & shot under the working title of Evil Dead 3 the actual Evil Dead title apparently wasn't eventually able to be used due to copyright & legal problems caused by the collapse of the De Laurentiis Entertainment Group who financed Evil Dead II & co-produced this while it was still in business . To be honest with a distinct change in title there's a distinct change in tone as well since Army of Darkness simply didn't feel like an Evil Dead film to me or at least what I felt an Evild Dead film should feel like . While the first two Evil Dead films were classic black comedy horror films with with lots of gore Army of Darkness tones the gore & horror down to virtually nothing & instead ups the slapstick comedy & visual gags to an almost unbearable level & as such Army of Darkness feels more like a Three Stooges ( writer & director Raimi has often stated The Three Stooges were a major influence on him ) outing featuring a few monsters . To be fair the film is quite likable & there are a few moments which might make some laugh but for me there were far more misses than hits in the joke & gags department & I really miss the horror & gore of the previous Evil Dead films . The films plot is also very poor when analyzed , Ash's quest doesn't seem that difficult & why didn't either Lord Arthur & his men or the Deadites retrieve the Necronomicon already ? If they knew where the book was & how to safely get why didn't they ? Why did they need to send Ash ? Why didn't the bad guy's grab it already ? The romance between Ash & Sheila feels pointless & why did they change the start & make it different to the end of Evil Dead II where Ash shoots that flying monster ? Confusingly Army of Darkness surely must be a contender for the film with the most alternate versions , there are theatrical cuts , TV versions , director's cuts all containing / missing / adding / removing unique material & to add to the confusion there's two different endings which seem to get used almost at random depending where you live . To be honest the differences are purely cosmetic , there's no change of story between most of the different version apart from the ending which is substantially altered . Most of the deleted / added scenes are just extension's of existing sequences or minor added scenes that don't affect the story too much . While I didn't find Army of darkness funny or particularly clever I was also disappointed with it's very overblown jovial atmosphere as opposed to the intense horror & gore of the previous Evil Dead films , to be honest there's no horror or gore here to speak of & this would surely rate as a ' PG ' these days . Made at a time before CGI computer effects most of the ambitious effects sequences are achieved through matte paintings , composites & stop-motion animation . The stop-motion animated skeletons remind heavily of Ray Harryhausen's brilliant sequence from Jason and the Argonauts ( 1963 ) also featuring skeletons . The film has a fun visual style with Raimi using all sorts of camera tricks & editing techniques . With a supposed $11 , 000 , 000 budget Army of darkness was by far the biggest budgeted Evil Dead film to date & Raimi uses the money to create an all out war film set in a medieval fantasy setting culminating in an epic battle between good & evil . The film bombed at the box-office & it's not difficult to see why to be honest . The acting is alright , Bruce Campbell has screen presence & is likable in this as he delivers the one-liners with aplomb while Bridget Fonda has a small role at the start . Army of Darkness is occasionally fun & it certainly moves along like a rocket with barely a dull moment but somehow it just didn't do it for me , I didn't find it that funny & I really missed the intense horror , monsters , slime & gore of the previous films . Wathable but very silly & not entirely satisfying . According to the IMDb another sequel titled Evil Dead IV ( 2011 ) is currently in development .
Oh my God , can I have that 100 minutes of my life back . . . please ?	Dellamorte Dellamore , or Cemetery Man as it's also known amongst English speaking audiences , is set in the small Italian town of Buffalora where Francesco Dellamorte ( Rupert Everett ) is the caretaker of the local graveyard , recently within seven days of being buried the dead have been returning to life & Francesco has to kill them again this time for good . The rest of the plot is none existent & defies logical explanation . . . This Italian , French & German co-production was produced & directed by Michele Soavi & one has to say I've rarely seen a film with such a disregard for any sort of plot . The script by Gianni Romoli was based on a novel of the same name by Tiziano Sclavi originally published in Italy in 1991 , I'd genuinely struggle to call it a coherent script mind as it resembles an odd collection of bizarre ideas all jumbled together with absolutely no regard for continuity , story , plot , character's or the poor audience who has to sit through it . It's certainly strange with decapitated talking zombie heads , retarded sidekicks , three different people who look exactly the same , blue hovering lights , zombie boy-scouts , the likeness of death formed from telephone book pages & an ending which will make you question whether it was part of the same film you just spent nearly two hours watching . I like films where you have to think , I like films which leaves things open to interpretation & I like films which have hidden , deep & meaningful messages . In this respect I point towards the films of Canadian director David Cronenberg like Videodrome ( 1983 ) , Dead Rigers ( 1988 ) , Crash ( 1996 ) & eXistenZ ( 1999 ) to name a few examples . However unlike Cronenberg's work which can still be enjoyed on many levels in Dellamorte Dellamore there's absolutely rhyme or reason behind any of the confusing & just plain bizarre things that happen , there's no cohesive narrative , things just happen for no reason , people just come & go & it's an extremely frustrating & annoying film to watch unless your a member of the pretentious art-house crowd who lap this stuff up . To give him some credit where it's due director Soavi turns in a gorgeous looking film , the imagery on show is very stylish & almost every frame of every shot is carefully composed . It looks great but it's still a crap film that I had an extremely hard time watching , I really wanted to just turn it off & do something fun like watch the grass in my garden grow . I stuck it out though so never let it be said I don't give a film a chance . The gore was sort of disappointing too , after hearing good things about graphic gore there was a distinct lack of it to my eyes . There's several gunshot wounds to the head like Dawn of the Dead ( 1978 ) & Day of the Dead ( 1985 ) including a nun getting a bullet right in the eye , there's a shot of a bus running over someones head , there are some zombies , a decapitated talking zombie head which ends up flying through the air & biting someones neck just like the hilarious scene in Zombi 3 ( 1988 ) & nothing else really . There's some nudity as well both for the boy's & girls . With a supposed budget of about $4 , 000 , 000 Dellamorte Dellamore absolutely bombed everywhere it went theatrical & considering how abstract , oddball , offbeat , weird & about as far from mainstream as you can get it's no surprise whatsoever . Shot in Italy I'm not sure why Rupert Everett agreed to be in this , at least he got some credibility back as an actor from his role in Ispector Gadget ( 1999 ) ! The acting sucks , I hated everyone especially the ugly deformed retarded fatso sidekick who threw on on a girl yet she still wanted to marry him . Dellmorte Dellamore is one of those films your going to love or hate , as far as I'm concerned you can stick me in the hate camp . I have no idea why but it's become a bit of a cult item & isn't it generally true films with big cult followings almost always turn out to be rubbish & / or disappointing ? Not for me at all I'm afraid & I'll give it 1 star for the film itself & another couple for it's stylish good looks , there's a place for DVD's like Dellamorte Dellamore & it's called eBay !
" Dead or alive Cold is dangerous . " Poor Steven Seagal thriller .	Black Dawn starts at a Federal Prison in Utah where rouge CIA agent & nuclear weapons expert ( ! ) Jonathan Cold ( Steven Seagal , also producer ) breaks international arms dealer Michael Donovan ( Julian Stone ) out . Impressed with Cold's efficient work Donovan offers him a job , a job to oversee his buying a new nuclear weapon from some crazy scientist dude & obtaining the plutonium to power it . Jump to Los Angeles where the deal is to take place & where CIA agent & Cold's friend Amanda Stuart ( Tamara Davies ) has Donovan's brother James ( John Pyper-Ferguson ) under surveillance , however when she is caught by Donovan's men Cold has to blow his cover & rescue her . Now the Donovan's have plans for a nuclear weapon & the equipment to build it that they intend to sell to a bunch of Russian suicide bombers who intend to become marters when they blow Los Angeles up , that is unless one-man army Cold can stop them . . . Directed by Alexander Gruszynski this was actually a sequel to Seagal's terrible earlier straight-to-video / DVD action thriller The Foreigner ( 2003 ) a couple of years previous in which he played CIA agent Jonathan Cold racing across Europe with a deadly package , so Black Dawn which is titled The Foreigner 2 in some countries moves the story to the US & is the sequel no-one wanted . The plot is short on action & Seagal fans looking forward to some of his trademark martial arts fights will be disappointed as there isn't any , the too complex for it's good plot is all over the place , completely fails to engage or grip & is pretty standard action thriller fare without much action or many thrills . There's this really dumb twist at the end when some guy we have only seen once is revealed to be behind it or something yet for some reason he is there to start the bomb & kill the Russian terrorists , why not just let the Russians start the bomb & blow themselves up & like just make sure your out of Los Angeles well in advance ? Why stick around to potentially be blown up in a nuclear holocaust ? If Donovan was going to double cross the Russians why was he so bothered about finding the real plutonium ? Just give them vials of water or something , how would they know ? Open them up & have a taste ? I don't think so . The pace is alright & it keeps moving along but the plot is weak , predictable & the character's are forgettable . The action is pretty poor apart from a reasonable car chase involving a huge dumper truck which is quite good & probably belongs in a better film than Black Dawn . The only fight scene in Black Dawn sees one of the worst body doubles ever stand in for Seagal who is fat in this , in fact he is really fat & out of shape in this . This fight is filmed so you never see Cold's face but the stunt doubles body is all wrong & you can just tell it's not Seagal . Other than that it's just a fairly dull succession of shoot-outs between people . There's a big CGI computer effects explosion at the end but if it really was a nuclear bomb there would have been an electro magnetic pulse which would have shut down all electrical equipment including the helicopter Seagal was flying & thus send him crashing into the Ocean but Black Dawn isn't that concerned with factual accuracy . With a supposed budget of about $15 , 000 , 000 Black Dawn looks alright , it's a little flat & forgettable but the production values are decent enough . The acting isn't great from no-one of any interest & Seagal again seems dubbed a lot of the time . Black Dawn is a poor action thriller that fails to deliver on any count , it's dull & boring & utterly forgettable . Not quite as bad as The Foreigner but not too far behind it .
Watchable enough early 40's psychological thriller .	The Ghost Ship starts with a blind beggar ( Alec Craig ) dishing out some advice to the new fresh , just out of training school 3rd Officer of the cargo ship Altair named Thomas Merriam ( Russell Wade ) who gives him some loose change for his trouble & boards the Altair for the first time . On board he introduces himself to Capatin Will Stone ( Richard Dix ) , they both seem to get on well & like each other . Tom is informed that the 2nd Officer suddenly died in his cabin but not to worry about it . At first things go well but it soon becomes clear to Tom that Captain Stone is very authoritative & dislikes anybody questioning him or trying to make trouble , just like a crewman named Louie ( a young Lawrence Tierney's first film ) who tries to tell the Captain how to do his job . Shortly after this incident Louie is involved in an accident which proves fatal , although Tom has his suspicions that it might not have been an accident & that Captain Stone may have been responsible . Tom has a moral dilemma , does he report his Captain & friend or keep quiet ? Tom tells the 1st Officer Mr . Bowns ( Ben Bard ) who doesn't believe him , neither does his friend Sparks ( Edmund Glover ) the radio operator or the rest of the crew . Tom is on his own & stuck out at sea with the increasingly unstable Captain Stone . . . Produced by Val Lewton & directed by Mark Robson I thought The Ghost Ship was sort of OK but a bit dull & uneventful as well . The Ghost Ship is a bit of a misleading title as it's not a horror film although one could easily argue that it has horror overtones & themes but instead I would describe it more of a chilling psychological thriller & I suspect the title The Ghost Ship was a bit of a marketing device . The script by Donald Henderson Clarke makes it painfully obvious that the Captain is responsible for everything that's going on so there's no mystery element at all which I feel hurts the film badly as it's fairly easy to guess where it's going . Captain Stone isn't given a motive or much of a background as to why he was going mad as sorts & I found it hard to be bothered with where The Ghost Ship was going ( no pun intended ! ) . It's reasonably well paced & the story is interesting enough but didn't captivate me like I thought it should have , I didn't really care for any of the characters most of whom are bit part players & not developed beyond the fact that their sailor's . Technically the film is OK for the period , the black & white cinematography by Nicholas Musuraca is basic & a bit static but fine anyway , the sets look OK but when someone shouts it echos which makes it painfully obvious that we're on a sound-stage somewhere ( the supposedly expensive sets are from RKO's Pacific Liner ( 1938 ) which they presumably didn't want to waste ) & the back projected sea looks pretty fake as well . I found the acting to be somewhat wooden from most of the cast but Dix as Captain Stone put in a decent performance . Overall I don't quite see why The Ghost Ship is held in such regard , I found it mildly entertaining but since the script makes it perfectly clear what's going on & who's doing it I just sat there waiting for the inevitable climax . There's nothing massively wrong with The Ghost Ship but it didn't do much for me , worth a watch but nothing else . Oh , & I wish I could meet a woman who sets me up with her younger sister after one conversation . . .
' The most gruesome voyage in maritime history ' Nowhere near as bad as I thought it was going to be .	The film opens to shots of boats sailing as the credits play . After the credits we see a woman named Carol ( Mara Modair ) lying in a bed , topless no less ! Less than five minutes in and we have female nudity , a reasonable start . She answers her bedside phone , it's her stepfather Dr . Jules Craig ( John Hart ) who is planning a boat trip to Hawaii and insists she comes along , especially if she wants to keep her wealthy lifestyle . Down at the docks everyone is introduced to each other . Mac ( Pete Kellett ) is the Captain , Scotty ( Gene Tyburn ) and Pete Nelson ( Doug Hume ) are the crew men , also going will be Jules fiancé Jill ( Laurie Rose ) and one of his patients Amy ( Midori ) who happens to be a drug addict . In passing Jules and Mac talk about a friend named Andy Mason ( Jonathon Lippe ) who has recently been discharged from the army after a stint in Vietnam , and that he is planning on stopping by before they set sail . That night someone without any socks or shoes on , no I don't know why , kills the crew member Pete Nelson with a meat cleaver . The next day when Pete doesn't turn up Mac and Jules decide to hire Andy as their second crew member . They set sail for Hawaii and everything seems great as they sail the open seas and enjoy the bright warm sun overhead . However it's not long before things take a turn for the worse as that night Mac is murdered by someone again with a meat cleaver and is thrown overboard . His disappearance isn't noticed by anyone until the next morning when by that time they are miles off course . Everyone thinks he fell overboard by accident and are somewhat unconcerned . They find out that the radio has been sabotaged and they cannot contact anyone . But when the second crew member Scotty is stabbed in the back it becomes clear there is a murderer amongst them . Is it Jules stepdaughter Carol , who resents Jules because he controls her life and money ? Is it Andy who keeps ' hearing voices ' in his head ? Is it Amy the drug addicted patient who says she'll do anything for a fix ? Or is it someone else with even darker motives ? Watch it and find out ! Directed by Frank Mitchell this plays like a Saturday afternoon T . V . murder mystery rather than a straight horror that the title Blood Voyage might lead you to think . And to be fair to those involved it ain't all that bad , it's not brilliant but's not bad . The script by William Tate and Jim Patton is quite good and should keep you guessing as everyone seems to have a reason to kill , even if the killers motives when there eventually revealed are a little silly and still somewhat unclear . It's only 73 minutes long so it moves a fair pace and doesn't outstay it's welcome . There isn't much gore in it , the Captain is killed with a meat cleaver and there is a bit of blood in this scene but otherwise it's a pretty bloodless film . There is a bit of nudity , including full frontal if that sort of thing interests you . Overall I thought it was a decent watch that maintained my interest throughout and nowhere as near as bad as I thought it was going to be . It's not perfect by any means as some of the acting isn't great and it's sometimes a little rough around the edges in a technical sense . Worth a watch if you can catch it on T . V . or buy / rent it cheap , although that may be difficult as by all accounts it's a rather obscure rarity and the VHS version I have which I brought from eBay is over 20 years old .
" Listen honey , I don't know who you really are or what you really want but I can refer you to a good therapist who can help you figure it out . " Dull supernatural horror .	Family Reunion tells the tale of the Andrews family , Tom ( Mel Novak ) & his wife Kathy ( Pam Phillips ) , their two children Billy ( A . J . Woods ) & Erin ( Kaylin Cool ) plus Tom's Father Henry ( John Andes ) who are all driving to a town called Silversprings on Christmas eve to visit relatives . On the way they decide to stop at a ghost town called Sutterville which by a strange coincidence Tom has had nightmares about every year around Christmas for his whole life , spooky eh ? His Father Henry is wary & begs them not to go but Tom's car develops a mind of it's own & takes them there & then breaks down so they can't leave . Meanwhile a man arrested for vagrancy by local police is identified as Clarence McCoughlin ( Ken Corey ) who supposedly died in Sutterville 40 years ago & seems to have some sort of demonic power . As the Andrews family explore the town a feeling of unease starts to takeover , Clarence escapes jail & heads back to Sutterville for a sinister family reunion . . . Written , produced & directed by Michael Hawes I thought Family Reunion was an average sort of supernatural horror that would have been far better as a 30 minutes Tales From the Crypt ( 1989 - 1996 ) episode rather than a 85 odd minute feature film . The script is basic & spends more than half it's time just having the Andrews family walk around Sutterville doing nothing in particular . The Satanist worship angle of the story is mostly forgotten & only really comes to the fore during the last 10 minutes when Clarence & the Andrews finally meet , the ending is rather predictable & isn't much of a surprise . It's all rather slow , dull & bland . There's very little horror or exploitation & as a whole Family Reunion isn't that great , I can't really see it appealing to hardcore horror fans as there's very little to it . Director Hawes does an OK job , some of the horror themed sequences look silly like the initial confrontation with Clarence as lots of smoke rises from the floor & silly blue neon lighting suddenly appears while other's are nicely done like some of the scenes of the Andrews exploring the deserted town . It has a reasonable atmosphere to it but is low on real scares or shocks . Amazingly Family Reunion was cut by 23 seconds here in the UK so maybe I missed something unbelievably nasty although I doubt it , the version I saw was pretty much as dry as a bone except a few splashes of blood , a plate of intestines covered with maggot's & a fairly gory scene when someone is impaled on a wooden stake . Technically Family Reunion is alright , it's competent enough & generally well made throughout . The acting was OK but nothing special . Family Reunion is average at best , it was too long & just a bit too dull for it to do anything for me I'm afraid . Maybe worth a watch if your extremely bored but nothing special .
Incredibilly silly & cartoony 6th Elm Street entry .	Freddy's Dead : The Final Nightmare starts as dream demon Freddy Krueger ( Robert Englund ) leaves a teenager ( Shon Greenblatt ) on the outskirt's of Springwood with no memory of himself , who he is or why he is there . The local police pick him up & take him to a youth centre where child psychiatrist Maggie Burroughs ( Lisa Zane ) interviews him , she finds a newspaper cutting in his pocket which leads the two to Elm Street in Springwood where they discover that no children live there & therefore no victims for Freddy kill anyone . It all turns out that it's an elaborate plan by Freddy to find his daughter & use her to escape Springwood . When Maggie realises what Freddy is up to her & some kids decide they have to kill Freddy once & for all . . . Directed by Rachel Talalay this was made with the intention of being the final A Nightmare on Elm Street film which by this time had reached five , of course as any horror film fan know's if there's still money to be made from a franchise or a character then there's no way in hell Freddy's Dead : The Final Nightmare was going to be the last one which , of course , it wasn't . The A Nightmare on Elm Street series has been a franchise of diminishing returns as the films dropped in quality as the series progressed until we got here & Freddy's Dead : The Final Nightmare which for my money is probably the worst out of the lot of them . The film moves at a reasonable pace & it's rarely boring but it's so silly , childish & feels like some sort of live-action cartoon with some awful set-piece horror scenes that seem a million miles from Wes Craven's suspenseful & effective early 80's original . The sequence where stoner Spencer is trapped inside a video game being played by Freddy is terrible on it's own but then we are treated to shots of his body back in reality bouncing around the house from wall to wall & floor to ceiling which is quite the most ridiculous thing I've seen in a while , or maybe the early scenes when the John Doe kid falls from a plane down to the ground just like the Coyote cartoon character in the Road Runner cartoons or the absurd sight of Freddy threatening the deaf Carlos with pins that he intends to drop to the floor to make a loud noise or when he eventually kills him by scraping his knives across a blackboard . You can't take this seriously & I was just sitting there not quite believing what I was seeing . When they do finally try to kill Freddy the hero is given a secret powerful special weapon , yeah that's right a pair of cardboard 3-D glasses ! The character's are poor , the dialogue is poor & the plot is confusing , it doesn't really stick to the Elm Street continuity & overall the film is a bit of a mess , the best thing I can say about it is that it has quite a bit of unintentional humour & you can certainly laugh at it . The film has major tonal problems as it tries to be dark , scary & sinister yet it's so silly & simply looks ridiculous at times that any attempt at being serious falls completely flat . There's not much gore in this one , there's some cut off fingers , some stabbings , someone falls on a bed of nails & that's about it . The body count is extremely low here with only three death's . The final twenty or so minutes of Freddy's Dead : The Final Nightmare was in fact shot in 3-D although the version I saw presented this part as normal so I can't comment on how well this does or doesn't work but you can definitely see shots which are meant to be seen in 3-D which take advantage of the process . The special effects vary , some are quite good actually while other's are terrible & Freddy's burnt make-up this time looks quite poor . This apparently had a budget of about $5 , 000 , 000 ( it had an opening weekend box-office take of $12 , 000 , 000 ) & the film has a few nice visual touches & gags which makes the thing feel even more cartoony than it already is . The acting is really poor from the main leads although there are a few odd cameos including Tom Arnold & Roseanne , Johnny Depp & rocker Alice Cooper . Freddy's Dead : The Final Nightmare is probably the worst of the entire series & apart from some unintentional laugh value there's not much here to recommend or enjoy . Fans of the series will probably like it & defend it but for me this is about as far from Wes Craven's original classic shocker as it gets . Followed by New Nightmare ( 1994 ) which tried to take Freddy Krueger & the series in a new & different direction .
" I'm here to keep this spaceship business in check . " Dull 50's Sci-Fi .	The Brain Eaters starts with the newly engaged Glenn Cameron ( Alan Frost ) driving his lucky fiancé Elaine ( Jody Fair ) to the small American town of Riverdale in Illinois to break the good news when they see a sudden bright flash . Glenn & Elaine stop to investigate & discover a large metal cone that's 50 feet tall by 50 feet across at it's widest . In Washington Senator Walter K . Powers ( Cornelius Keefe as Jack Hill ) takes full responsibility & flies out to Riverdale where he is met by Glenn who just happens to be the Mayor's ( Orville Sherman ) son , Glenn informs Senator Powers that his Father has mysteriously disappeared & there has been 3 unsolved murders in the area recently . Glenn takes Senator Powers to the cone where Dr . Paul Kettering ( Ed Nelson ) , Dr . Wyler ( David Hughes ) & their assistant Alice Summers ( Joanna Lee ) are busy running all kinds of tests on the unidentified object . Kettering informs Senator Powers that he is baffled by the cone , eventually they all end up in the Mayor's office who has suddenly reappeared . After some macho rubbish between the Mayor & the Senator about who is in charge the Mayor pulls a gun out & makes a run for it but is shot by a cop . Kettering & a somewhat unemotional Glenn examine the body & discover two holes in the back of his neck . Kettering performs an autopsy & discovers that the Mayor was being controlled by an alien parasite previously unknown to man , Kettering puts two & two together & comes up with the startling theory that these parasites have come from the cone . But since the parasites got to the Mayor who else is being controlled ? The mystery deepens even further when an expert in bio-chemistry , Professor Helsingman ( Saul Bronson ) , who has been missing for the past five years turns up out of the blue . Kettering & his team face a race against time to stop the parasites before they take over the entire human race ! Directed by Bruno VeSota The Brain Eaters is nothing to get excited about . The script by Gordon Urquhart supposedly based on Robert A . Heinlein's novel The Puppet Masters fails to make the most of it's obvious potential , the potential for paranoia is wasted . The film makes it perfectly clear who is controlled by a Brain Eater & who isn't . Film's like John Carpenter's The Thing ( 1982 ) & Invasion of the Body Snatchers ( 1978 ) brilliantly uses the mistrust between characters to heighten tension & make us , the viewer , question who we should believe & put our faith in . The Brain Eaters has none of this which hurts the film badly as it's very predictable & doesn't even attempt to try & pull any surprises . The dialogue is clunky , awkward , static & feels dated as is often the case with 50's Sci-Fi but there are a few laughs to be had if you listen closely enough . To give it some credit it moves along like a rocket , there's no boring exposition here even going as far as having a few scenes narrated rather than try & condense the information into an ordinary conversation & at only an hour long it doesn't outstay it's welcome . The Brain Eaters themselves are rarely seen & when they are they look like wigs with antenna's . There's no blood , gore or violence & the special effects are generally poor as you would expect . The acting is very wooden & everyone looks & sounds like they're reading their lines from cue cards , & yes Leonard Nimoy does make an appearance even if it's hard to make him out you'll definitely recognise his voice . Director VeSota fails to bring any scares , atmosphere , style or originality to the film as a whole . Overall I thought The Brain Eaters was an OK way to pass an hour but could have been more & at the end of the day fails to distinguish itself from any other 50's black & white Sci-Fi film of which there are many better ones available . One to watch only if your desperate .
" We gotta go down there & blow those hairy mother's away . " Better than average Sci-Fi Channel Creature Feature .	Ice Spiders is set in the Lost Mountain skiing resort in Logan County in Utah where hotshot skier Dan ' Dash ' Dashiell ( Patrick Muldoon ) works as a ski instructor , local ranger Rick Dickerson ( K . Danor Gerald ) ask's Dash for help in searching for two missing hunter's on a nearby mountain range which Dash dutifully agrees to . They find one of the hunters dead , horribly mutilated & the other cocooned in what looks like Spider's silk . Then they are attacked a giant genetically created Spider that has escaped from a nearby Government laboratory , with six deadly giant Spider's on the loose in total no-one is safe as it's up to ex-marine & all round hero Dash to go way beyond the call of duty to save the day . . . Directed by Tibor Takács this is yet another ' Creature Feature ' Sci-Fi Channel original that is far from original & is pretty standard stuff from start to finish . The script features everything any seasoned ' Creature Feature ' lover would expect , there's the young teenage cast , the all American hero who has to overcome some sort of fear to save the day , genetically created creatures of some sort developed for military purposes , bad CGI computer effects , an isolated location for the Spider's to attack & the human cast to get stuck in , a corrupt scientist who only cares about the experiment & not human life , a military presence & of course a love interest for the lead hero . It's all here in abundance . Ice Spiders is far from the worst of it's kind that I have seen , it's still not a particularly good film by any stretch of the imagination but I did enjoy it to a certain extent more than I thought I would . The pace is good & from the opening Spider attack scene right through to the end the film never slows down & I can't say I was bored although what I was more than aware that what I was watching was still pretty average stuff . The character's are alright & aren't as annoying as usual , the plot is fairly standard stuff & it's clear not much thought went into other than to hang the basic ' genetically creature giant creature on the loose ' plot around & there's a few amusing scenes here if your in the right mood I suppose . The dialogue is of often unintentionally funny & the film doesn't seem to take itself too seriously & while I would hesitate to describe Ice Spiders as a good film I certainly don't think it's a terrible one either . There is no build up to the revelation of the Spider's in Ice Spiders & one is seen in it's full CGI glory within the first three minutes , the cheap looking CGI computer effects range from the strictly average to the absolutely awful . There's no real build up of tension to any of the attack scenes either so the film lacks any scares or any atmosphere & the entire thing takes place during the day which makes things easy to see but setting a horror film about giant Spider's in broad daylight cuts down the options for suspense sequences & as such the film lacks any . There's some minor gore here , someone is seen ripped in half , there are a few mutilated bodies , some blood splatter & some mutilated animal bodies too . With a supposed budget of about $2 , 000 , 000 the production values are alright , the mountain wilderness scenery is nice enough to look at & poor CGI computer effects apart it's reasonably well made . The acting is mostly poor from people who look like they don't want to be there , Patrick Muldoon in particular looks to be putting zero effort into things . Even though Vanessa Williams was forty three when she shot Ice Spiders she looks about nineteen in it . Ice Spiders is a slightly better than usual Sci-Fi Channel ' Creature Feature ' although that in itself isn't saying much & is certainly no recommendation . Not bad for it's type but since it's type is usually so awful it's still nothing worth busting a gut to see .
" I've got coke , speed , smack , grass & acid " - " No thank you , the only trips I take are to Europe . " A one time watch at best .	When I typed Savage Intruder into the IMDb's search engine one of the options it came up with was Savage Garden : International Video Collection : The Story so Far ( 1999 ) , the only reason I mention this is because I'm a huge Savage Garden fan & you should do yourself a favour & check some of their music out like Affirmation or To the Moon and Back rather than bother with this average pot-boiler , sorry I just wanted to say that . Anyway , Savage Intruder starts with a bizarre montage of what looks like MGM musical & premiere footage & a few spinning portraits which have no meaning whatsoever in the long run . It's late 60's Hollywood & amid the glitz & glamour a serial killer is at work selecting ageing actresses , killing them & dismembering their bodies . A young man named Vic Valance ( David Garfield as John David Garfield ) hops off a tour bus looking for employment when it stops at the house of a now retired actress , Katharine Parker ( Miriam Hopkins ) who was ' one of the biggest stars of the motion picture ' but now lives in a big house with an elderly housekeeper named Mildred ( Florence Lake ) , a personal secretary Leslie Blair ( Gale Sondergaard ) & a young maid named Geta ( Virginia Wing ) . Katharine has recently broken her foot & needs a personal assistant & gives Vic the job . Slowly Vic charms his way into Katharine's affections & more importantly her large wallet . Vic starts to turn Katharine against the other employees , but Vic isn't what he seems . Vic is a drug addicted loon who gets Greta pregnant while still having sex with Katharine . Greta threatens to tell Katharine & spoil Vic's devious plans but she has a close encounter with an axe , no one in the house is safe as Vic brings drugs , sex , rock ' n ' roll party's & gardening to the Parker mansion while his sinister plan starts to become more & more apparent . . . Written , produced & directed by Donald Wolfe I thought Savage Intruder was a bit of a mess but a mildly entertaining one at the same time . The script is all over the place & it can't really decide what it wants to be , Savage Intruder suffers from an identity crisis ! The film starts with the discovery of a severed head & limbs , straight after another woman ( Dorothy Kingston ) is killed by a mysterious unidentified figure but then it completely ditches the slasher film elements that it has just built up never going back to them . Savage Intruder then becomes a sort of feel good film as Vic befriends Katharine & shows her how to enjoy life again & having an implied sexual relationship with her , it's actually disgusting to think about as she's old enough to be his Grandmother . Katharine stops living the life of a recluse & gives up the alcohol as Vic appears to make her happy as they go to party's together & hold banquets for Katharine's friend like she used too . This part of Savage Intruder wouldn't look out of place in a Disney film ! Every so often the tedium of the feel good stuff is interrupted by Vic shooting up & having silly hallucinations about his Mother ( Sybelle Guardino ) & chopping her hand off with an axe , he has sex with Great at one point as well . Then , after Greta has been murdered , Savage Intruder becomes a bizarre horror film as Vic is revealed for the loony that he is . Savage Intruder just doesn't flow properly as a film in my opinion as it mixes various genres with little success . Similarly the murder mystery elements don't work & are frankly a bit of a puzzle , why go to great lengths to conceal the killers identity during the murder scenes but then make it perfectly clear who is committing them throughout the rest of the film anyway ? Vic as a character didn't work for me either , one moment he's a cool , calm , clever & devious con man & then next he's a stark raving loony ! Why kill all his other victims but with Katharine try to con her ? What makes her so different ? If it is because she has money why not go after her to start with ? So many questions & so few answers . . . Some of the 60's dialogue is pretty funny to listen to these days like when Vic offers Greta a painkiller , in reality hard drugs , & Greta says " what do I need a painkiller for ? " , Vic helpfully replies " because your a pain " wow this guy knows how to charm the ladies ! Or when Katharine suggests that Vic do some gardening & ask's " do you have green fingers ? " he replies " no , but I'm good at grass ! " There isn't much gore in Savage Intruder , some severed limbs & a couple of decapitated heads . There is also a fairly impressive shot when someone has their hand cut off with an axe which is probably why it's repeated three or four times . The silly looking drug hallucination scenes need to be seen to be believed . Technically Savage Intruder is OK , the location filming in the grandiose mansion & Hollywood hills probably give it a better look than it deserves , the acting is average as is the rest of the production . Overall I'd say Savage Intruder feels like it tries to be a murder mystery that unfortunately gives the killer away & as a result just doesn't work . It's a mildly entertaining one-time-watch at best & a complete mess of a film at worse , you decide which !
Dull as dishwater supernatural drama .	The Turn of the Screw is set in 60's London where a young woman named Jenny Gooding ( Patsy Kensit ) has an interview with Mr . Cooper ( Julian Sands ) about becoming a Governess for two young children in a big house . Mr . Cooper is their legal guardian as both their parents were killed & he needs someone to look after them , Jenny accepts the position . Once there Jenny discovers a huge stately house isolated in the middle of the English countryside where she meets Mrs . Grose ( Stephane Audran ) the housekeeper & Flora ( Claire Szekeres ) the young girl she is meant to be looking after . Jenny receives a letter in the post informing her that the second child Miles ( Joseph England ) has been expelled from his school & coming back . Things go well at first but Miles & Flora are a couple of creepy kids , especially Miles . Jenny also learns that the previous Governess mysteriously died , Jenny's stay starts to become a nightmare as she suffers bad dreams , visions of supposedly dead people & there is definitely something very wrong with Flora & Miles . . . This British French co-production was written & directed by Rusty Lemorande & is a film that I found far too pedestrian & dull for my liking . The script by Lemorande takes itself 100 % seriously , is somewhat sedately paced & was based on the short story by Henry James & I think that the word ' short ' is crucial here as this filmed adaptation feels very drawn out & in my opinion has very little substance . I have never read the novel so I cannot compare the two but the fact that the film is narrated feels like it was added to increase the duration & as a whole very little actually happens . Jenny is the only central character with the two children & housekeeper the only other character's with any sort of significant screen time . The film didn't flow properly & the narrative didn't work for me , why does Jenny become so afraid of Miles ? Did I miss something , she almost convinces herself without him actually doing anything that I can remember apart from being a bit naughty . Jenny ends up having a breakdown which just didn't seem plausible or convincing in context at all . The ending puzzled me as well , why did the kid die ? What were those ghost's at the window doing ? What happened to them ? Was it Jenny's imagination ? The things a mess & ends up being very frustrating as I felt there was a good film trying to break out , if only a bit more time had been spent on the pacing as it's very slow & the story which is loose to say the least . As a whole it's not very engaging or interesting & I found it became quite dull well before the end credits started to roll . Director Lemorande does a terrific job & The Turn of the Screw has a wonderful visual style to it , the locations , the interesting props & set dressing , the creepy toys , the colour schemes , there's some really cool angles & camera shots & I think a lot of time & effort was put into the look of the film . If only as much time had been spent on the script as on the visuals , a shame . Forget about any gore as there isn't any , there is also a distinct lack of scares . Technically the film is great & I have no complaints here , it was shot in Surrey , England . I have to say Patsy Kensit is hot in this , she's very cute . Julian Sands fans will be very disappointed to learn despite his top billing in the credits he has nothing more than a cameo that amounts to about three minutes of screen time . The Turn of the Screw ( isn't that a great title for a film ? ) is a bit of a bore , there's nothing particularly exciting or memorable about it & it doesn't seem to know what sort of film it wants to be . I can't say I'd recommend it unless you like slow , dull pointless films .
" It's as if we're tearing off the skin that wraps us . " Poor melodrama .	Mother is set in ' Rochester New York ' & tells the twisted tale of the widowed Olivia Hendrix ( Dianne Ladd , also co-producer ) & her only son Tommy ( Morgan Weisser ) , together they run a card shop called ' From the Heart ' . From initial appearances they seem like any other mother & son but in fact Olivia is extremely possessive & wants to control Tommy's life . Recently Tommy has been suffering from headaches & has been visiting Dr . Sid Baden ( Steven Anderson ) where he has met Audrey ( Ele Keats ) the pretty receptionist who has recently lost her father . Tommy sends her a nice card & their relationship begins to blossom . Tommy & Audrey decide to go out together but Olivia finds out & is very unhappy & jealous , she tries to warn Audrey off her son with little success . After various rows & confrontations things take a dark turn , Olivia fakes a suicide attempt , their 60 plus year old weird shop assistant Natalie Jay ( Olympia Dukakis ) tries to seduce & have sex with Tommy ( ! ) & as Olivia becomes more & more desperate to keep Tommy at home she resorts to murder . . . Directed Frank LaLoggia I found little to enjoy in Mother . The script by Michael Angelella is slow & never really gripped me . It takes itself far too seriously & the plot is a mess . It's touched upon that Natalie has cancer , why ? Nothing ever becomes of it unless you count her ridiculous motives for some totally unbelievable narrative . What about the silly sub-plot about Tommy's father still being alive ? Again nothing is really done with it other than to pad out time until the final twist ending which is just silly & doesn't make a whole lot of sense when you think about it . If Olivia had two children with this guy where did he think the second child went exactly ? Did he think it vanished into thin air ? There are some entertaining scenes here , purely for laughs of course , the dinner table conversation , the bit when Natalie tries to seduce Tommy & that ending . Mother has a certain perversity about it & could have been a good horror but instead treads the well worn path of the melodrama concentrating on character's rather than action . Director LaLoggia keeps Mother strictly in the land of bland made-for-TV films that have no personality or style . It's competent but nothing else . Forget about any blood or gore , this is as dry as they come , an off screen murder by axe , an electrocution & that's about it except for a few splashes of blood at the end . Technically Mother was never going to be astounding on it's TV film budget , it's as well made as you would expect or hope . I personally found the acting pretty bad , but hey that's just my opinion . Mother is a totally forgettable TV film that fails to inspire anything much other than boredom & negative feeling . Give this one a miss as there are far better films out there although I have seen worse .
Average straight-to-DVD horror flick .	Dracula III : Legacy starts as part Vampire , part man all Vampire hunter Father Uffizi ( Jason Scott Lee ) & his new sidekick Luke ( Jason London ) manage to learn that Dracula ( Rutger Hauer ) has returned to his homeland of Romania , Father Uffizi wants to destroy him once & for all while Luke wants to rescue Elizabeth ( Diane Neal ) . They arrive in Romania & quickly discover that Dracula is using rebels to collect victims for him & his Vampires & using the civil war as a cover , it's up to Father Uffizi & Luke to stop him once & for all . . . Co-written & directed by Patrick Lussier this is the straight-to-DVD sequel of Dracula 2000 ( 2000 ) & Dracula II : Ascension ( 2003 ) which this was shot back-to-back with . For some reason the title character of Dracula is played by different actors in all three films , Gerard Butler in the first , Stephen Billington in the second & Rutger Hauer here in the third without any real explanation given for it . Anyway the script by Lussier & Joel Soisson brings the Vampire legend bang up to date & places Dracula in a modern war torn Romania using the chaos caused by fighting rebels & the like as cover for his Vampiric activities which is a novel idea I suppose but one which not much is made of . The film moves along at a decent pace , there's a few good set-pieces & the like but I never felt particularly emotionally involved with anything or anyone , I was just sat there waiting for the next Vampire to show up rather than being enthralled by the story . Dracula III : Legacy is a reasonable film , it passes the time harmlessly enough but I just felt it was a little bit too ' middle of the road ' as it were & ultimately a bit forgettable . Director Lussier does a decent job , there's some nice camera angles & well lit scenes but apart from the occasion sporadic piece of stylish film-making it's pretty routine . The gore levels are a little low , there's some melted faces , some dead mutilated bodies , arms & head whipped off & a few largely bloodless staking , some priests impaled on huge stakes & little else . There's a bit of nudity as well but not enough to get excited about . Dracula III : Legacy ( Legacy by the way is a word the makers have seemingly plucked out of the air at random because it ' sounded ' cool ) is maybe the one & only time in cinematic history that someone is attacked by a Vampire walking on stilts ! I wouldn't say it's overly scary or exciting but it does have a bit of mood to it . With a supposed budget of about $3 , 200 , 000 this was shot at the same time as Dracula II : Ascension in 2002 but remained unreleased until 2005 . Actually shot on location in Bucharest in Romania this looks nice enough with decent production values . The acting is alright but no-one is going to win any awards , Roy Scheider turns up in a ( very ) small role . Dracula III : Legacy is a perfectly entertaining way to pass 90 odd minutes without ever really getting one worked up too much , I liked it but didn't love it & doubt I would ever want to see it again & I will probably have forgotten all about it by the end of the week .
Not too bad .	The Prophecy II is set in Los Angeles & starts as nurse Valerie Rosales ( Jennifer Beals ) runs over a young man named Danyael ( Russell Wong ) , taking him to hospital she makes sure he's OK . Valerie visits Danyael again & they fall for each other , before you know it they are in bed together & have sex which Valerie quickly learns has left her pregnant . If that wasn't bad enough an evil archangel Gabriel ( Christophere Walken ) is out to kill her since Danyael was in fact an angel & their child will unite heaven as told in a prophecy which the evil Daniel doesn't want because he wants to rule heaven himself & destroy Earth in the process . Valerie must stay alive long enough to raise her child or both heaven & Earth will be destroyed , now that's pressure . . . Co-written & directed by Greg Spence I thought The Prophecy II was a decent time waster but nothing particularly special . The script by Spence & associate producer Matt Greenberg is fairly exposition heavy & has some interesting ideas but it's a bit slow even at less than 90 minutes & is sometimes a little hard to follow . I admit that I have never seen the original The Prophecy ( 1995 ) & as such I didn't have a clue what was going on for the first half of this film , this is a sequel where it is advisable that you have seen the original because if your anything like me you'll spend the first half wondering who everyone is what the hell's going on , I mean there's an early scene where some guy in a long coat touches the ground of some parking lot & then cracks in the ground open & Christopher Walken's character emerges & I sat there & thought to myself ' what just happened there & who was that guy ? ' neither of which are satisfactorily explained . There are various religious ideas & themes with horror & supernatural overtones & elements here as one would expect in a film about angels & while they are OK they never really engage or interest that much & are fairly forgettable . I liked the notion that an angel didn't know how to drive or what a computer is with Christopher Walken not even knowing how to use a gun . If you like religious themed horror them you'll almost certainly like The Prophecy II but if you don't then , like me , it may not do too much for you . Director Spence does a good job & the film has a great sense of style , there's some nice colour schemes going on as well . There are a few eerie moments but I wouldn't say it's particularly scary , it does have a nice atmosphere though . There's not much gore on show , there are a couple of ripped out hearts , a few impalings & a messed up body on an autopsy table . Some of it's a bit silly , I mean I don't know how Valerie survives falling off the top of that building , Gabriel's body wouldn't have been enough to break the fall & even if it was why wasn't she impaled on the spike along with him ? By the way if your interested the IMDb has spelt Danyael's name wrong in their ' Plot Outline ' on the main page . . . Going straight-to-video this probably had a decent budget & it show's , it's well made & pretty stylish with it . The special effects are good & the acting is alright with Christopher Walken stealing every scene he's in , the guy is just a great actor . The Prophecy II is an alright religious themed supernatural horror thriller , it's worth a watch but it's nothing special . This was enough of a success to spawn three further sequels , The prophecy 3 : The Ascent ( 2000 ) , The Prophecy : Uprising ( 2005 ) & The Prophecy : Forsaken ( 2005 ) .
" The death of one person is a tragedy , the death of a million a statistic . " Not that great to be honest . . .	FeardotCom is set in New York City & starts in a dark & grimy subway station where a man named Polidori ( Udo Kier ) stupidly gets run over by a train . . . Detective Mike Rilly ( Stephen Dorff ) & his partner Sykes ( Jeffrey Combs ) are on the case which has several mysterious elements surrounding it like the fact Polidori was bleeding from his eyes & nose . Two more unexplained death's occur that feature bleeding eyes & nose's , Rilly decides to call in the Department of Health & gets sent Terry Huston ( Natascha McElhone ) whose , by total coincidence of course , boss Eddie Turnbull ( Nigel Terry ) gets a nose bleed & dies shortly after . After Rilly does some checking the one thing all four victims have in common is that they died 48 hours after visiting a website named Fear . com . The website belongs to a notorious serial killer named Alistair Pratt ( Stephen Rea ) nicknamed ' The Doctor ' because he likes to slowly torture & cut up his female victims to on-line subscribers & is a particularly nasty piece of work who Rilly has been after for years but ' The Doctor ' is flesh & blood so what are these unexplained supernatural elements ? The temptation becomes too much & both Rilly & Huston log onto the site after which they only have 48 hours to unravel the mystery & save themselves before they become the latest victims on an ever growing list . . . Directed by William Malone I thought FeardotCom was an OK time waster but could have been so much more . The script by Josephine Coyle obviously takes it's inspiration from the cult Japanese horror Ringu ( 1998 ) . Instead of a videotape the film turns to the internet which doesn't really work that well , millions upon millions of people use the internet everyday without any supernatural curse's being placed upon them & they are not going to be scared by FeardotCom purely because most of us are so desensitised & accustomed to the internet already & see it as a perfectly normal & safe thing to use in our everyday lives ( which it most certainly is ) . Also , the filmmakers obviously couldn't get the rights to use Microsoft Windows so the internet browser used in FeardotCom looks totally fake & unconvincing . The supernatural side of things just don't sit that well & it all becomes a bit muddled . As you would expect FeardotCom tries to say something about the internet & how it can be abused presumably . FeardotCom moves along at a reasonable pace & never became overly boring but the story didn't really grip or engage me as I'd have liked . The best thing I say about FeardotCom is that I found it an OK way to pass 100 odd minutes but at the same time nothing special . Director Malone tries to bathe the film in atmosphere as he uses all the tricks in the book , washed out colour schemes so the film looks almost black and white at times , constant beams & shaft's of light coming through windows , ultra quick edits , slow motion , extreme close-ups , constant rain & dripping water , swinging lights & the contrast between old & new like derelict abandoned buildings & location's against modern computers & shiny chrome scalpels . Unfortunately everything in FeardotCom looks & feels so staged & forced that it become irritating , you never shake the feeling that your just watching a man made film . The violence & gore is disappointing as Malone cuts & edits so quickly that it almost seems like a collection of random imagery , you know that something nasty is happening it's just Malone doesn't let us see it , the scenes where ' The Doctor ' threatens his latest victim with a scalpel are pretty grimy & definitely have a repellent sexual element . With a budget of $42 , 000 , 000 FeardotCom is undoubtedly well made & has that Hollywood polish to it but again it feels too much like a film & too forced . Also 42 mil sounds like a lot of money considering what ended up on screen , no major A-list actors , no big stunt or effect scenes & not much else that would account for 42 big ones . FeardotCom was filmed in Luxembourg & Canada & you can tell , no one who has been to New York will be fooled . The acting was OK but I never really felt much for any of the character's . FeardotCom could have been better as it fails to mix the real life internet angle with the supernatural part of the story that well . Having said that I found it kept me watching right to the bitter end , not brilliant but not bad , average at best . Probably worth watching once if there's nothing else on the box !
" I'll have to make some cuts around here , it could be your salary or it could be your throat . " Average Arnie action flick .	Collateral Damage starts in L . A . where fireman Gordon Brewer ( Arnold Schwarzenegger ) is set to meet up with his wife Anne ( Linsay Frost ) & young son Matt ( Ethan Dampf ) outside the Colombian consulate , unfortunately just as he arrives a terrorist bomb explodes & his wife & son are turned into toast . Obviously he is devastated , a Colombian terrorist called Claudio Perrini ( Cliff Curtis ) AKA The Wolf claims responsibility for the bombing in retaliation against American occupation of Columbia . The CIA or FBI are helpless as the senate orders immediate withdrawal of American troops from Colombia which annoys Gordon , in fact it annoys Gordon so much he intends to illegally travel to Colombia himself & kill Perrini despite the army of guerrilla's Perrini controls . Sounds like a sensible idea to me . . . Directed by Andrew Davis this is far from classic Arnold Schwarzenegger , Collateral Damage is alright & passes the time but just didn't do much for me . The script by David & Peter Griffiths just isn't that involving or interesting , it's rather sedate , the action scenes are flat , forgettable & bland while it has the usual assortment of silly plot holes . The plan to blow the FBI guy's up at the end was so intricate & relied on countless things going to perfection that it stretches the films already thin credibility , you can't make a snake slither down someones throat , the snake wouldn't voluntarily slide down someones throat , what about the guy's gag reflex & the snake would probably die before the person . Then there's the scene at the end when two people are engulfed in flames yet reappear moments later without so much as a singe , you cannot slide down elevator cables with a belt wrapped around your hands because the friction would tear through the belt & then your hands like a knife through butter & I wouldn't advise anyone to break open a metal pipe that carries flammable gas with an axe because the axe hitting the metal pipe would almost certainly cause a spark & ignite the gas which would then explode & blow you to pieces . This could have been a great action flick but lightweight action & fight scenes ( Arnold never fires a gun on screen for heaven sakes ! ) along with the unpleasant depiction of all Colombian's being either drug lords , corrupt or terrorists doesn't help it's cause . Director Davis doesn't really do anything special here , the action scenes are dull & lack excitement or any real mindless violence . Arnold doesn't even get any cheesy one-liners to mumble , so what we have here is an Arnold Schwarzenegger action flick without much action where he doesn't even fire a gun & not a single one-liner is sight , why is the question I ask here , why ? Then of course there's the general theme of the plot about terrorists wanting to blow United States landmarks up , considering world events it just doesn't sit easily or make for particularly pleasant viewing . Collateral Damage was originally to be released on October 5th 2001 a mere three weeks after & it was pushed back until Februray 8th 2002 , despite this it still grossed $15 million at the box-office during it's opening weekend . With a mega budget of $85 , 000 , 000 give or take a few million Collateral Damage doesn't feel like a particularly big budget film , sure it's got Schwarzenegger in it ( rumour has it he was paid in the region of $25 , 000 , 000 to star in this so maybe that's where most of the $'s went , I love his quote when he said ' money doesn't make you happy , I now have $50 million but I was just as happy when I had $48 million ' ! ) & it has that Hollywood polish about it but the action scenes are surprisingly subdued , no-one of any other note is in it & even the special effects aren't exactly brilliant . The acting is OK but largely forgettable . Collateral Damage is an OK time waster , don't take it too seriously or don't expect another Arnie classic then you may find enough here to keep yourself quiet for an hour and forty odd minutes but it's a close run thing . Not one of Arnie's best but it's still a hell of a lot better than Kindergarten Cop ( 1990 ) !
Didn't do much for me at all .	Midnight Run starts in Los Angeles where ex-Chicago cop Jack Walsh ( Robert De Niro ) works as a bounty hunter looking for & capturing criminals who have jumped bail & then collect the reward from bondsman Eddie Moscone ( Joe Pantoliano ) , Jack doesn't like it but it's a living . Eddie ask's Jack to find ex-accountant Jonathan ' the Duke ' Mardukas ( Charles Grodin ) who stole fifteen million dollars from a Las Vegas mobster named Jimmy Serrano ( Dennis Farina ) & has run out on Eddie owing him $450 , 000 in bail money . Eddie needs the Duke back within five days , Jack accepts the job & finds the Duke in New York but getting him back to Los Angeles turns out to more difficult than Jack had thought with the FBI , gangsters & rival bounty hunters on their tails . . . Produced & directed by Martin Brest ( who also has a small cameo in the film as the Airline ticket clerk at Las Vegas ) I notice that Midnight Run seems to be a very popular film which I can't relate to at all , in fact I think it's average at best & boring rubbish at worst . The script by George Gallo takes the buddy buddy mismatched partners thrown into some comedy crime caper action thriller template & turns it into a staggeringly uneventful two hours . I am sorry but to me the vast majority of Midnight Run is just bland chit chat between Walsh & the Duke as lots of other interested parties chase them across America . A lot of films use the whole mismatched partner thing & use it to create tensions , be it racial tension as in Lethal Weapon ( 1987 ) or class tension as in Tango & Cash ( 1989 ) & here in Midnight Run it's the whole criminal vs lawman type tensions . The action scenes are poor & don't live too long in the memory . The script also likes to throw in profanity at every opportunity just for the hell of it , it seems almost every second word is a swear word & while I have nothing against profanity the sheer amount of it in Midnight Run smacks of swearing for swearing's sake . The character's are also poor , we hardly ever find anything out about the Duke , Walsh comes across better but then it's clichés all the way with the typical Las Vegas mobster , the FBI man who Walsh manages to stay one step ahead of all the time & the rival bounty hunter who just can't quite get the better of Walsh . With lots of people chasing around after each I was expecting some sort of huge climax but even that is low key & forgettable . Also I thought Walsh tracked the Duke down rather easily , I mean the FBI couldn't find him , Las Vegas gangsters couldn't find him but little old Jack Walsh could . In the space of a single day too . Director Brest was obviously hired by Paramount to make another comedy action thriller in the vein of his previous film Beverly Hills Cop ( 1984 ) , which coincidentally also contains a foul mouthed cop character , & wanted to cast Cher as Mardukas , & then Robin Williams but Brest hired Grodin against the studios wishes & Paramount dropped the film with Universal then stepping in to take over production . Apparently Bruce Willis was considered for the Mardukas role but was turned down & as such he went on to make Die Hard ( 1988 ) , both films opened on the same weekend & it's fair to say Willis would have the last laugh . The action scenes really are forgettable , there's a crashing helicopter , an average car chase & that's it . With a supposed budget of about $30 , 000 , 000 Midnight Run is well made for what it is but most of it is rather talky for my tastes . The acting is alright , De Niro is just a fine actor anyway but I thought Grodin was poor & uncharismatic . Midnight Run is an average buddy buddy mismatched partner type comedy crime caper , I can't say I hated it but I can't say I loved it either . Followed by three made-for-telly sequels , Another Midnight Run ( 1994 ) , Midnight Runaround ( 1994 ) & Midnight Run for Your Life ( 1994 ) .
" This is a community relations nightmare . " I thought it was OK actually .	Evil Never Dies starts as evil neck breaking serial killer William Charles Lee ( Simon Bossell ) murders Abby Ryan ( Zoe Naylor ) the wife of Detective Mark Ryan ( Thomas Gibson ) who is currently trying to bring him to justice , Mark runs after William & manages to capture him & just about keep himself from killing him . Jump forward a few years & Willaim Charles Lee is executed in the gas chamber & Detective Ryan has been transfered to act as a liaison officer at a local college after several violent incidents , he teams up with campus security guard Chris Thompson ( Christopher Morris ) who is a bit gung-ho in his attitude . One night while watching the old science building Chris notices genetic scientist Professor Arkin ( John Waters ) & his pretty assistant Eve ( Katherine Heigl ) enter it without permission , he call Ryan who finds out that they were conducting experiments on the re-animation of dead cells , their test subject was the serial killer Willaim Charles Lee & the experiments prove more successful than they could have imagined . . . Co-produced & directed by Uli Edel this made-for-TV effort seems to have a pretty bad reputation but I have to admit I quite liked it , I wasn't expecting anything from the film so maybe that helped raise my affinity for it but I honestly didn't think it was too bad at all . The script by Max Enscoe , Annie de Young , Farhad Mann & Barry Sandler ( it took four people to write this ? ) takes itself very seriously & even though it sounds like a straight Frankenstein type horror film it's more of a thriller drama as the only real horror element is the bringing back to life of William Charles Lee the serial killer because after that it completely ignores the genetic experiment angle of the film & actually kills Professor Arkin off & never mentions it again . Evil Never Dies then concentrates on Ryan tracking down William & trying to convince his superiors & friends that he is still alive killing people which he gets blamed for who predictably don't believe him . Another reason why I quite liked this is because of the neat twist ending which I didn't see coming , I thought it was going to be pretty routine & predictable all the way but the ending was a bit of a nice surprise . It moves along at a reasonable pace , there's just about enough going on to stop you from falling asleep , the character's & dialogue are serviceable & I thought it was a decent little film that exceeded my very low expectations . Director Udel does OK & considering the low TV budget this looks alright , there's not much style but it's watchable if nothing else . I would have liked a bit more horror in it & forget about any blood or gore as there isn't any , William Charles Lee is a serial killer who breaks necks so unfortunately there's no need for any expensive gory special effects . I wouldn't say it's particularly scary either , sorry . Technically it's fine , it's well made & has reasonable production values . This was actually filmed in Melbourne in Australia although you won't really notice as it looks just like any American city . The acting is OK & it's always nice to see total babe Katherine Heigl in something , Australian Simon Bossell who plays the serial killer here will probably be better known to millions of viewers throughout the world as Alan Fisher from the Australian soap Home and Away in which he appeared in nearly 300 episodes . Evil Never Dies is never going to make anyone's top 10 best films list but I certainly don't think it deserves all the hate it has on the IMDb , it's nothing overly special sure but I still thought it was alright & it was a lot better than I thought it was going to be .
Nothing special .	Werewolf : Wolfhunt starts as Eric ( John J . York ) is woken by the sound of bloodhounds & galloping horse hooves , he quickly starts to run & comes across a Wolf caught in a trap which he frees , then the horses catch up with him . Three men , Morales ( Joaquín Martínez ) , Dawson ( R . G . Armstrong ) & ranch owner Bill Tilghman ( George McDaniel ) appear & Bill in particular is very angry at Eric for letting the Wolf go , the Wolf Bill has been hunting for years after it attacked him & left a huge scar on his face . Back at his ranch Bill gets a visit from bounty hunter Alamo Joe Rogan ( Lance LeGault ) looking for Eric , sensing a large reward Bill sets out to capture Eric himself dead or alive . . . Episode seventeen from the one & only season of Werewolf this originally aired in the US during November 1987 , directed by Bob Bralver this is an OK episode but nothing particularly special or memorable . I suppose the main aim of Wolfhunt was to pair Eric the reluctant Werewolf up with a real life Wolf & have them ' connect ' with each other . Usually it's some human stranger that takes Eric in & looks after him but here the Wolf cares for Eric when he is injured by bringing food , isn't that sweet ? The bitter old ranch owner who has been trying to kill the Wolf for years because it scarred him is a bit of cliché I suppose but every episode needs a villain & he fits the bill well enough I suppose . The ending didn't quite go as I had expected wit the friendly cute Wolf actually getting killed which is unusual for an American TV show since they usually have nice happy upbeat endings so everyone watching can go to bed content knowing that good has triumphed over evil . There's minimum Werewolf action in Wolfhunt but at least Eric actually changes in this episode unlike the last one Nightmare at the Baine Hotel . There's no blood or gore but there is a dead Snake that gets roasted . Wolfhunt is an average Werewolf episode , it's not brilliant & doesn't really add to the series as a whole but it still passes twenty five minutes odd harmlessly enough & fans of the show should like it at least .
The beginning of the end ?	Werewolf : To Dream of Wolves : Part 1 starts as Werewolf Eric Cord ( John J . York ) drifts into New Orleans in order to follow up a lead on Skorzeny , there he meets photographer Diane Bathory ( Kim Ulrich ) who once approached Skorzeny to model for her . Diane tells Eric that while she doesn't know where Skorzeny is but Nicholas Remy ( Brian Thompson ) a Professor might . At Remy's house Eric comes face to face with the 200 year old Skorzeny as a Werewolf & is knocked unconscious while Skorzeny kidnaps Diane . Eric tracks Skorzeny down to the local docks & after an epic battle Eric finally kills him but much to his disappointment he is still afflicted with the Werewolf curse which means that Skorzeny wasn't the originator of the Werewolf bloodline & Eric has no idea where to start looking for it or who it might be . . . Episode twenty five from the one & only season of Werewolf this originally aired in the US during February 1988 , the first part of a two part story To Dream of Wolves was directed by James Darren the whole series so far has been building up to this point as Eric finally comes face to face with Skorzeny & kills him in order to destroy the bloodline & this end his Werewolf curse . Of course things aren't that simple & the main plot twist of To Dream of Wolves is that Skorzeny isn't the originator of the Werewolf bloodline at all & Eric's search has to start all over again from scratch which presumably the makers intended to use to keep the series going although ironically after the To Dream of Wolves double header the show only ran for another three episodes before it got canned . To be fair not much actually happens in this episode , Eric runs around a bit trying to find Skorzeny & then at the end has a fight with him Werewolf to Werewolf before killing him although I have to admit there's a pretty good twist ending I didn't see coming even though I probably should have . Also , what the hell was that mime artist who constantly kept popping up all about ? There's some good Werewolf action as usual with better than expected special effects which are fairly impressive even now & in my opinion would beat most low budget CGI computer animated stuff . Being a TV show this was never going to be the goriest but there's an impaling at the end & a good send off for Skorzeny . The character of Janos Skorzeny was named after the Vampire in the made-for-telly horror flick The Night Stalker ( 1972 ) , oddly Janos Skorzeny was originally played by actor Chuck Connors up to & including the ninth episode Friendly Haven ( 1987 ) while all of the character's subsequent appearances were either in complete Werewolf form or by use of a body double & even now it's unclear why Connors left the show even though the makers still had a big role for his character . Apparently Skorzeny was given some dialogue in the original script for To Dream of Wolves but when Connors again refused to reprise the role it was all cut & a body double was used as well as archive footage previously shot for which actor Chuck Connors sued Fox & the makers of the show & actually won . To Dream of Wolves : Part 1 is a decent enough episode from a series that I have actually really liked although this does have one of the more poorer story lines from the show where not a whole lot happens , maybe Part 2 will bring it all into focus a little more & give a bit more meaning to Part 1 .
Thematically odd moralistic episode .	Werewolf : The Boy Who Cried Werewolf starts as bounty hunter Alamo Joe Rogan ( Lance LeGault ) chases Eric ( John J . York ) the Werewolf through some woods late at night , Rogan manages to shoot & wound the beast . While outside a young monster mad boy named Davey ( Danny Cooksey ) finds the injured Werewolf & takes it to his tree-house . The next morning & the Werewolf has changed back to Eric & Davey agrees to help him as Rogan continues his relentless search . . . Episode three from the first & only season of Werewolf this originally aired in the US during July 1987 , directed by Larry Shaw this is probably the first stand alone episode after the feature length pilot & the second episode Nightwatch which followed directly on from it . Here in The Boy Who Cried Werewolf we see some serious stereotypes , the young boy who is mad about monsters , disbelieving parents & an abusive drunk who is dating his mum who does nothing but shout , drink beer & behave violently towards those who can't stand up for themselves at even the slightest provocation . The writing really isn't that great here & it's a rather predictable episode too with Eric transforming into a Werewolf at the end & dishing out some just desserts to you know who . At only twenty five minutes in length at least it's short but with a rather clichéd & tired moral message & an equally tired & clichéd plot The Boy Who Cried Werewolf isn't the best episode the series has to offer while the whole Eric the Werewolf on the run from Rogan stopping to sort out a bully just seem at odds with each . The production values are strong , the opening sequence set at night in the woods as Rogan chases & shoots the Werewolf look really good with some nice lighting effects . Again like Nightwatch the actual Werewolf transformation is not shown but the when seen the Werewolf looks pretty good although they insist on showing it in slow motion , maybe to hide it's lack of movement ? Not overly violent , there's a fight at the end & someones face is scratched where some blood is seen . Davey's tree-house has a huge poster inside it for the Paul Naschy flick The Werewolf Versus Vampire Women ( 1971 ) better known these days on DVD as Werewolf Shadow which provides a nice little homage . The Boy Who Cried Werewolf is a largely forgettable episode where Eric uses his Werewolf powers to help solve a domestic dispute , it just seems a little tired & inappropriate really .
Solid if unspectacular horror film .	Richard Tarbell ( Franc Luz ) plays the local Sheriff on a small island just off the coast of California called North Port . He is dating a waitress who works in the local diner . However , his ex and Mayor Elias Johnson's ( Robert Lansing ) daughter Elizabeth ( Lisa Langlois ) flies back into town . It turns out the Mayor has allowed a company called ' INTEC ' and Dr . Morgan Hubbard ( Terri Treas ) to conduct genetic experiments , the purpose of which are to create the ultimate pest control that doesn't use pesticides or sprays , genetically altered cockroaches that are supposed to eat other roaches , although it's never explained how these roaches themselves would be controlled , maybe no one thought about that small point . Unfortunately these roaches eat everything else as well . First turning cats and dogs into skinless carcasses , eating all the meat from the local store and all the glue that binds the books together in the public library ! They seem to be everywhere and the local exterminator Homer ( Stephen Davis ) can't cope . The Mayor summons Hubbard from ' INTEC ' and demands she stops her work . They soon discover that these genetically created roaches mutate from generation to generation and are starting to become resistant to all scientific attempts to destroy them , and start to become disgusting hybrids of themselves and what they've eaten . Hubbard convinces Mayor Johnson that she can destroy the roaches , and prevents him from evacuating the town at the expense of wild hysteria even though the entire town has been eaten by the roaches except sheriff Tarbell , the Mayor , Dr . Hubbard , Elizabeth and Homer , but he has already ordered the chemical spraying of the town , fearing the roaches will spread to the mainland , with a lethal dose of poison that would also be fatal to any person still left on the island , and they need to turn the lighthouse on to cancel it , but predictably the light doesn't work . So the remaining survivors must either stop or face both mutant killer cockroaches and a lethal dose of chemical poison ! They must find the roaches nest and destroy the queen before it's too late . Directed by Terence H . Winkless this is a decent , solid effort . The script by Robert King based on a novel by Eli Cantor is a bit on the talky side , and the sub-plot involving the suicide of Elizabeth's mother goes nowhere and is totally unnecessary and irrelevant . Why , when they find the nest , does it contain a box with loads of explosives and a timer ? Where did it come from ? Not the sort of thing you just leave lying around . There is also a bizarre scene toward the end , sheriff Tarbell and Homer are sat in a car discussing the queen and what they might find when they enter the roaches nest , half way through their conversation the sheriff pulls his gun out points it at the dashboard and fires a shot off . Why does he shoot the dashboard when he was in the middle of a perfectly calm conversation with someone ? Why waste a bullet when earlier on he had seen what a couple of the mutant roaches had become ? Why not save the bullet to protect himself against anything he might find in the nest ? I haven't got a clue and I can't think of a reasonable explanation , the scene still baffles me ! The effects are variable , there's one or two good gore scenes , mostly involving skinned animals and mutilated corpses . When a mutant half roach / half whatever it's eaten shows up the special effects are less successful . Their just really stiff and lifeless puppets with one operator on each arm , they have almost no movement whatsoever . Although the human to mutant roach transformation sequence is quite gooey and gross looking . For what it's worth the video released by MGM in the UK has a shot from this sequence on the cover of the box that doesn't actually appear in the finished film , it was probably never included in any released version but proves that more footage of this was shot . Hubbard's death at the hands of her own creation at the end also contains pleasing amounts of slime , gore , blood and a giant monster consisting of a mass of body parts from various humans and animals . Acting , photography , and music are all OK but nothing exceptional , professional enough . Decent horror film , just a little dull and silly in places . Worth a rent for horror fans , or even better watch it on T . V . if it's on , for free .
Good if unspectacular fifth episode .	Werewolf : Spectre of the Wolf starts as real life Werewolf Eric Cord ( John J . York ) searching desperately for a cure attends the lecture of a Dr . Victor Degoethels ( Byrne Piven ) who is a professor of Werewolf mythology & wrote the best selling book ' Spectre of the Wolf ' about the subject . Eric thinks that a self confessed expert on Lycanthropy could help him find a scientific cure for his Werewolf curse . Meanwhile bounty hunter Alamo Joe Rogan ( Lance LeGault ) is closing in on Eric , can Eric convince Dr . Degoethels that he is indeed a real Werewolf & even if he can will Degoethels be able to help him . . . Episode five from the first & only season of Werewolf this story originally aired in the US during August 1987 , directed by Lyndon Chubbuck this isn't a bad episode at all but having said that it's nothing spectacular . This episode sees Eric take a different approach to trying to cure his Werewolf curse , instead of trying to kill Skorzeny he tries to go down the scientific route . Spectre of the Wolf has one of those plots that mixes traditional horror mythology & scientific rationality as the two clash & seem at odds with each other , not much is made of the line between mythology & hard scientific fact & the the episode doesn't really go anywhere that interesting or anywhere we haven't been before . At first the scientist that Dr . Degoethels is refuses to believe Eric but by the end of the episode he witnesses Eric change into a Werewolf & the man of science has been turned , again this basic plot is nothing entirely new . As for the regular character's Skorzeny doesn't feature , bounty hunter Rogan features in the opening & closing scenes while there's a brief flashback to the pilot episode where the scene Eric shoots his best friend Teddy who had turned into a Werewolf is shown . There's a couple of scenes of Werewolf action in this one but they don't amount to much , there's some snarling & growling & a Werewolf jumps through a window & a door & that's about it . It's well made with good solid production values & pretty impressive special effects although the atmosphere that was so evident in the opening four episodes is notably absent here in Spectre of the Wolf as it's mostly set in a fairly generic looking & feeling University . Spectre of the Wolf is an decent way to pass twenty five minutes especially if you like the show , unlike some of the other episodes Spectre of the Wolf could probably stand on it's own & isn't directly connected with any other episode apart from the central character of Eric .
A romantic episode .	Werewolf : Nothing Evil in These Woods starts as Eric ( John J . York ) wakes up naked on the bank of a lake in the middle of some woods , nearby he finds a beautiful young woman named Deidra ( Amy Yasbeck ) who gives him a blanket & a ride . Deidra takes Eric back home with her where she claims that she is a good natured White Witch committed to helping people , Eric is sceptical but Deidra changes his mind when she reveals that she knows he is a Werewolf & that with her magic she might be able to end his curse . However a local posse of superstitious townspeople want to send Deidra the Witch straight back to hell from where they think she came . . . Episode seven from the first & only season of Werewolf this originally aired in the US during September 1987 , directed by David Hemmings it's time for Werewolf to turn romantic & a bit slushy although in my opinion that makes for a rather unremarkable episode on the whole . Here in this episode Eric falls for Deidra the White Witch but unfortunate circumstances & stupid intolerant locals put paid to any potential cure for his Lycanthropy & any potential romance in an unusually sombre ending which it was nice to not see the production team take the easy Hollywood happy ending route & go for something a bit stronger although not everyone will like it . Nothing Evil in These Woods is about first impressions & how they can be wrong , stereotypical attitudes that could be wrong & you could make an argument for saying that there's even a thinly veiled attack on racism . The opening sequence has two hunters being killed by a Werewolf although it's never actually made clear whether it was Eric or not . Neither regular character's Skorzeny or bounty hunter Rogan appear in this episode & Nothing Evil in These Woods could be seen as a stand alone episode that you don't have to have seen the rest of the series to understand . Nothing Evil in These Woods isn't the most action packed of episodes , in fact it's one of the slower ones & not that much really happens . Eric changes at the end of the episode as per usual & beats some redneck locals up but that's about it for dramatic incident . There aren't even any special effects in this one apart from the Werewolf suit at the end . The best sequence in this one is the opening where a Werewof attacks & rips open the hunter's tent . Nothing Evil in These Woods is a reasonable episode , it's not bad but it's not great either . I found it rather routine , lacking a certain something & a bit forgettable compared to some of the other better themed episodes .
Disappointing episode .	Werewolf : Nightmare at the Braine Hotel starts as Eric ( John J . York ) arrives at the Braine Hotel asking about Skorzeny , the manager Marta ( Ellen Crawford ) is of little help & Eric just decides to rent a room for the night . While trying to sleep a sinister man dressed in black wielding a silver knife enters his room , he says his name is Servan Domballe ( Richard Lynch ) & is an immortal Werewolf just like Eric . With reports of several brutal murders in local papers Eric thinks Servan is the killer & is somehow related to Skorzeny . . . Episode sixteen from the one & only season of Werewolf this originally in the US during November 1987 , directed by David Hemmings I have to say I was a little disappointed by Nightmare at the Baine Hotel , I mean it's worth a watch but overall I would say it's nothing special or outstanding . The potential was here for a really good murder mystery set in a hotel , not dissimilar to Psycho ( 1960 ) I suppose but the killers identity is far too obvious . His motives dovetail into the overall plot for Werewolf but it just comes across as a wasted opportunity to make a terrific stand alone episode , it all ends up being a bit routine & uninspiring with a tacked on female character seemingly only present for Eric to ' save ' at the end . I think that Nightmare at the Braine Hotel could have been an excellent whodunit Werewolf style but it never really feels like that . Even the so-called twists have little imagination behind them & feel routine in the sense that they all relate to Eric & his problem somehow . Nightmare at the Baine Hotel is the first episode of Werewolf not to actually feature any Werewolves at all , for the first time Eric doesn't change & neither does anyone else . Regular character's Skorzeny & bounty hunter Rogan don't appear in this episode . Credit where it's due Nightmare at the Baine Hotel looks fabulous , from the dark seedy cheap hotel sets to the pouring rain outside to the killer dressed totally in black & wielding a large shiny knife who looks like he could have come straight out of any 70's Italian giallo . Unfortunately it seems more time was spent on the production side of things than the script which is surprisingly forgettable , a little unclear & uneventful . Brooding cult actor Richard Lynch gives a decent performance as a killer with an Octopus tattooed on his bald head , don't ask . Nightmare at the Braine Hotel looks great with really good production values & a moody dark horror film atmosphere but the story isn't that good , just isn't that much fun & is a bit confusing at times .
Another average episode .	Werewolf : Big Daddy starts as Eric ( John J . York ) arrives at a small Louisiana town called Lanier Parish where he is arrested by local Sheriff Bobby LeCroy ( Brian Libby ) & taken to the mansion of ex-state Governor Will Fraser ( Howard Duff ) also known as ' Big Daddy ' . Big Daddy tells Eric that he is dying of cancer & needs Eric to pass on his Lycanthropy to him so he can live forever . Eric isn't keen on the idea but Big Daddy has ways of getting what he wants by whatever means necessary . . . Episode nineteen from the one & only season of Werewolf this originally aired in the US during November 1987 , directed by Larry Shaw one has to say that Big Daddy is another pretty average episode just like the previous three or four although it's still watchable & fans of the show should still like it . The show has settled down into a regular pattern with each story revolving around the same sort of plot where Eric drifts into some town or job & meets some people , one usually good & one usually evil & finds himself in some sort of situation which he uses his unique Werewolf changing abilities to solve some problem or other usually in favour of the good character & Big Daddy follows that premise pretty closely with the nasty Big Daddy wanting to prolong his life by becoming a Werewolf & his good natured abused daughter Emily who he treats like dirt & has become his personal slave ( the fact that she is black has shades of racism ) coming out on top . The one aspect of Big Daddy that makes it watchable is the twist ending , while it won't knock your socks off it's suitably unpredictable & a fairly satisfying way to round the episode off . There are a couple of Werewolf scenes in Big Daddy but nothing spectacular , there's no blood or gore worth mentioning either . Neither regular character's Skorzeny or bounty hunter Rogan appear in this episode . The whole episode takes place in a big Louisiana plantation mansion which looks nice enough & the episode is nicely lit as usual but the story really isn't up to much & won't live that long in the memory . Big Daddy is an average Werewolf episode , it follows the same sort of pattern a lot of episode from this series have & there's just not much here to get excited about . One for the fans of the show .
Character driven episode .	Werewolf : A World of Difference ( take note IMDb there is no ' Part 1 ' during the opening credits ) is set in a small town where Los Angeles bounty hunter Alamo Joe Rogan ( Lance LeGault ) learns that his bail jumping bounty Eric Cord ( John J . York ) has been arrested on minor charges & is stuck in the local jail . Rogan thinks that the hunt is now finally over & that he can take Eric back with him & end all the bloodshed that seems to follow Eric around , however things aren't that simple as while Rogan argues with the town's Sheriff Eric transforms into a Werewolf & breaks out of jail . Rogan follows him & seemingly shoots Eric dead but not before Rogan is injured himself , as Eric's dead body lies in the county morgue Rogan faces the prospect of being infected with the Werewolf curse . . . Episode eleven from the first & only season of Werewolf this originally aired in the US during October 1987 , directed by James Darren this is the start to a two part story that belongs as part of the wider Werewolf story & not as a stand alone episode . A World of Difference is the sort of episode designed to flesh out the character's & give the whole Werewolf story that flows through the whole series a bit more depth , in that respect A World of Difference will probably only appeal to those who have followed the series so far & know about the character's involved & their motivations . This would not be a good first episode to see . After episodes that have revolved around both Eric & Skorzeny here it's the turn of bounty hunter Alamo Joe Rogan to get a storyline of his own , the episode is open ended in the sense that there's a lot of unanswered questions so if you do watch it make sure you have access to the second part . There's a decent double cliffhanger ending to this one with Eric seemingly dead in the morgue & Rogan himself having maybe been bitten might be a Werewolf himself , the thing that he hated & wanted to destroy in the first place . The majority of the episode consists of flashbacks as Rogan ' remembers ' some of the events that he has gone through while chasing Eric including finding out how to kill a Werewolf & making silver bullets from a silver crucifix . There's a decent dialogue scene between Eric & Rogan in jail that is well written & acted as they each spell out their reasoning behind what they are doing & try to make the other understand but as a whole this is a fairly forgettable episode without any Werewolf action of note . I suppose if you like the Alamo Joe Rogan character then you will like this episode since it's based around him but I prefer the Werewolf character's . A World of Difference is an average Werewolf episode , I can see what it was trying to do in fleshing out one of the main character's so the series as a whole benefits but you really need to be a fan of the show or have at least seen some of the earlier episodes to fully know what's going on & get the most out of it .
" I wouldn't come down here if I was you , this is Limehouse & we don't fancy your sort of bloke in these parts . " Not Sherlock Holmes best .	Sherlock Holmes and the Voice of Terror starts with the revelation that 1940's war-torn London is having it's airwaves hijacked by the Nazi's who broadcast sinister , boasting & fear inducing radio messages from Germany , these broadcasts have become known as ' The Voice of Terror ' . The British ' Intelligence Inner Council ' decide they can't let these broadcasts continue & Sir Evan Barham ( Reginald Denny ) takes the unusual step of calling in the worlds foremost detective Sherlock Holmes ( Basil Rathbone ) , an idea the rest of the council is not happy about but go along with it . Together with his trusty assistant Dr . Watson ( Nigel Bruce ) Holmes sets about unmasking the voice of terror & the ulterior motivations behind it . Holmes has little to go on until one of his scouts named Gavin ( Robert Barron ) is murdered on his doorstep , Holmes locates Gavin's girlfriend Kitty ( Evelyn Ankers ) & persuades her to help . As Holmes gets closer to revealing the voice of terror attempts are made on his life & on those of the council , Holmes feels the answers lie a lot closer to home than in Germany . . . Directed by John Rawlins Sherlock Holmes and the Voice of Terror was the third out of fourteen films to star the duo of Rathbone & Bruce as Holmes & Watson . The script by Robert Hardy Andrews , Lynn Riggs & John Bright is based on the Sir Arthur Conan Doyle novel ' His Last Bow ' , running for about an hour the film moves along at a nice pace & is never boring or dull but the war time propaganda is there for all to see . This isn't really the sort of thing I want in a Sherlock Holmes mystery , it overshadows the story somewhat & the notion that Holmes foils a Nazi plan to invade Britian while the entire ministry of defence can't is a little silly to say the least . I also felt that the plot was a bit predictable , I'm not usually very good at guessing how these mysteries turn out but I was pretty much spot on with this one , both who did it & why . Inspector Lestrade is absent from this particular adventure while the usual closing speech by Holmes is present & correct . Director Rawlins piles on the war time propaganda & patriotism , he keeps reminding us how great a nation Britain is & how horrible the Nazi's are , I really would have preferred the film to concentrate on Holmes as a central character more . Apart from a Gothic Church setting at the end there isn't any real horror overtones as is usually the case with Holmes . He doesn't give the film much style & it is somewhat forgettable . The footage of the ( model ) train crashing at the beginning is taken from The Invisible Man ( 1933 ) . Technically the film is good , the black and white photography is perfectly adequate & as a whole the film is generally well made with nice production values although some of the special effects are somewhat dated & that fight in the warehouse lacks any real enthusiasm from anyone involved . The acting is OK but as one would expect some of the lesser cast members are somewhat wooden . Sherlock Holmes and the Voice of Terror is a pretty good mystery film , it's not the best Holmes ever as I found the story a bit predictable & the wartime setting just didn't feel right , but I think it's still just about worth a watch all the same .
Didn't do much for me .	The Spiral Staircase starts as the dead body of a crippled woman ( Myrna Dell ) is found in her room , the police are on the case but the murderer is still on the loose . The local police track the killer to a specific part of town & decide to warn Professor Warren ( George Brent ) who lives in a large house with his stepbrother Steven ( Gordon Oliver ) , their sick mother ( Ethel Barrymore ) & various servants including a young mute woman named Helen Capel ( Dorothy McGuire ) who hasn't spoken in years . The police feel that the killer is targeting women with ' imperfections ' & that Helen may be their next victim , as a huge thunder storm rages outside the killer is indeed intent on Helen becoming their next victim . . . Directed by Robert Siodmak this was apparently a bit of a hit when originally released back in ' 45 but it's also a film which hasn't really been that well remembered or embraced , personally I think it's well overrated & didn't think it was anything special . The script by Mel Dinelli was based on the novel ' Some Must Watch ' by Ethel Lina White & alternates between a creaky murder mystery & dull soap opera . Most of the running time is spent on building the character's up , unfortunately it all amounts to very little & the last twenty odd minutes feels like any generic slasher flick as a woman tries to evade the attention of a homicidal killer . It may have been one of the first horror / thriller / murder mystery films but that doesn't automatically make it any good , I just found the melodramatics far too dull & lifeless while the horror mystery side of things don't fare much better as I thought the final ' twist ' revelation was far too predictable . On a basic level it's watchable & a few things in it are quite effective but overall I just didn't like that much & it's as simple & straight forward as that . Director Siodmak does OK , there's some wonderfully atmospheric shots of the house in the darkness of night while a thunder storms rages on but are a few nice black and white shots of a house really enough to make The Spiral Staircase a classic ? Or even a good film ? I don't think so , but that's just my opinion & just about the whole world & it's brother seem to rave about it so what do I know ? When it's good it's good but when it's dull it's dull . Technically the film is pretty impressive , the technology & techniques of today obviously weren't available back in the early 40's but The Spiral Staircase still looks good with very effective black and white photography . The acting isn't anything special & I found McGuire to be stiff & unlikable as the heroine . The Spiral Staircase is alright , if you like these old black and white efforts then you'll be as happy as a pig in sht but I didn't think it was anything special . Remade twice , once by Warner Bros . as The Spiral Starircase ( 1975 ) & then as a made-for-TV film The Spiral Staircase ( 2000 ) neither of which are supposed to be as good as the original .
Not as bad as I'd feared but hardly a masterpiece .	Soul's Midnight starts in ' Guthrie Texas , 1975 ' where Max ( Ryan C . Hurst ) & his pregnant wife Sara ( Natalie Loftin ) try to escape the ' Borgo Hotel ' & the evils within , Max sacrifices himself so his unborn child & Sara make it out alive . . . Jump forward ' Thirty Years Later ' & Max has died so his son Charles ( Robert Floyd ) & his pregnant wife Alicia ( Elizabeth Ann Bennett ) head to Guthrie for the first time to attend Max's funeral , while there they initially stay at the lavish Borgo Hotel now owned by a guy called Simon ( Armand Assante ) & his hot bird Iris ( Lucila Sola ) but things start to go bad straight away as there appears to be screaming in the hotel corridors late at night , Alicia has strange dreams & hallucinations while Charles is contacted by Ramos ( Miguel Perez ) one of his fathers friends who claim there was more to Max's death than anyone in Guthrie is prepared to say . . . Directed by Harry Basil while I didn't exactly love Soul's Midnight I didn't hate it & it turned out better than most low budget straight-to-video ( DVD ? ) potboilers that I have seen recently . The script by producers Jason & Brian Cleveland takes itself extremely seriously & has just about enough going on to retain ones interest although I'd have liked the mystery elements played up a bit more & the whole connection to St . George everyone seems to keep going on about seems tenuous to say the least . It moves along at a reasonable pace although looking back on it I can't say it was the mot incident packed horror film ever . Soul's Midnight is one of those films that for me passed 90 odd minutes painlessly enough but was neither amazingly brilliant or particularly bad in any specific department , it's all rather average & merely OK . The character's are alright & not too annoying , the dialogue is fine & it has a decent ending with a pretty cool winged monster but I'll bet half a cheese sandwich that by the end of the week I'd have completely , totally & utterly forgotten about Soul's Midnight . Director Basil does OK , the art deco style hotel looks gorgeous & it's a shame more of the film wasn't set inside it . There's not much atmosphere & I definitely wouldn't call it scary but at least it actually fees like a horror film . There's not much gore here , there are a couple of Vampire attacks , someone gets a pair of garden shears stuck through their hand , a Vampires chest is melted with holy water & someone gets their finger sliced off in an ice dispenser machine . This one also has an impressive looking creature at the end which thankfully is realised by using traditional make-up effects rather than cheap CGI . Technically Soul's Midnight is pretty good , it has decent production values & is generally well made which helps while your watching it . Apparently shot in Oklahoma in a two week period between October & November ' 05 Soul's Midnight actually looks quite good . A lot of ' name ' actors have been making appearances in low budget horror films of late & it's the turn of Armand Assante here , he does OK as does the rest of the cast . Soul's Midnight is an OK time waster if you have nothing else to do or are desperate , it's nothing overly special though .
Low budget teen slasher .	Curse of the Forty-Niner starts as teenager Claire ( Carrie Bradac ) is chopping onions in her kitchen , her husband Nick ( Sean Hines ) comes in & gives her a letter sent from her brother Jared ( Shadrach Smith ) claiming he has found a gold mine in an abandoned town called Suttersville & includes a nice nugget of gold as proof . Sensing an opportunity to get rich quick Claire , Nick & some of their friends Axl ( Stephen Westell ) & Tori ( Sangie ) plus Hayden ( Rick Majeske ) & Rox Ann ( Elina Madison ) have driven to Suttersville before you could say ' there's gold in them thar hills ' . Unfortunately while they do find lots of gold they quickly discover that because of an ancient curse anyone who takes it will be killed by the ghostly zombie miner from the dead named Jeremiah Stone ( associate producer Vernon Wells ) who really doesn't like people stealing his gold . . . Also known as Miner's Massacre & directed by John Carl Buechler this is yet another cheap , low budget teen slasher without a hint of originality & nothing particularly noteworthy to say about it . The script by Antonio Olivas is a really routine , predictable & uninspiring teen slasher in the vein of Halloween ( 1978 ) & Friday the 13th ( 1980 ) with a particular emphasis on My Bloody Valentine ( 1981 ) with it's murderous pick axe wielding miner . I don't really know what else to say about Curse of the Forty-Niner that I haven't already , this is just a complete rip-off of any slasher film you care to mention with a group of horny teen character's , a distinctive undead killer who uses mining tools to murder people , the locals who ' warn ' the kids to stay away , local legends that come true & a fat Sheriff who thinks they are up to no good . This is just a very generic , predictable & somewhat forgettable flick . To be honest it's not the worst film of it's type for sure , the character's aren't too annoying , the killer is reasonably fun , it only lasts for about 80 minutes so it's short & it's alright but in no way spectacular . The first half of the film is the set-up , the kids finding the gold & Jeremiah Stone coming back to life while the second half is out & out slasher as the kids try to survive . I've seen worse but then again I've seen better . Director Beuchler is a bit of a jack of all trades with various credits for visual effects , special effects , producing , directing , acting & writing but he is perhaps best know as a special make-up effects artist with a lot of credits to his name . It then comes as a disappointment that Curse of the Forty-Niner is such a tame & relatively bloodless film , there's a bit of blood splatter , a decapitated head , a pick-axe briefly shown in someones stomach & a shovel stuck in someones throat is the sum total . The effects are of the cheap variety & there's nothing that memorable here which considering his background has to be a disappointment . Technically the film is competent even if the town of Suttersville consists of of about four buildings ! There are a few small cameos here , Martin Kove makes a very brief appearance & is also credited as an associate producer , veteran actor John Phillip Law turns up as does Richard Lynch . The teen cast aren't great , I seen worse though . Curse of the Forty-Niner is a pretty bog standard average run of the mill teen slasher , it's not entirely horrible but the disappointing lack of gore & a forgettable predictable plot sinks it .
" My whole career I've made films your parents warned you against . " Average documentary .	Looking Back at ' The Hills Have Eyes ' is a 55 minute long documentary produced by Anchor Bay Entertainment for their special edition DVD & features The Hills Have Eyes writer & director Wes Craven talking about how he became involved in film-making & how producer Peter Locke convinced him to make The Hills Have Eyes in Apple Valley in the Californian desert , basically because Locke's wife was in Las Vegas at the time . Wes talks about the ideas behind the film & going to the New York public library & reading about Sawney Beane & his feral family who preyed on unwary travellers whom the family in The Hills Have Eyes are obviously based on . Wes also talks about wanting to make the civilised seem uncivilised by the end of the film . The documentary also features director of photography Eric Saarinen who doesn't say anything no one else says except that low budget film making is like a triangle , there's fast , cheap & good at each point & he says that you can achieve two of these but never all three . . . The rest of the interviewees consist of cast members Dee Wallace , Janus Blythe , Michael Berryman , Robert Houston & Susan Lainer whom ramble on about the heat during the day & the cold during the night & the casting , yawn . As a whole Looking Back at ' The Hills Have Eyes ' is an OK watch & is quite informative but it really doesn't go into much depth , particularly the struggle with the MPAA over an ' R ' rating as it's mentioned but not expanded upon & I for one would have liked to know what sort of footage had to be cut to avoid an ' X ' . There are a few anecdotes but nothing that really sticks in the mind , a loose rattle snake scaring the crew , the crew threatening to leave the production if Wes killed the baby & that the camera equipment used was hired from a ' big name ' porn producer & that they got a good deal . There is also far too much back patting & self appreciation , I'm sorry but these people are talking about The Hills Have Eyes not Citizen Kane ( 1941 ) ! There are various clips form the film & a few behind-the-scenes black and white photo's , there are also a couple of clips showing how the location looks now , well back in 2003 when this was produced anyway . Finally , Wes originally called the film Blood Relations which producer Locke hated & one of his friends came up with The Hills Have Eyes , I wonder if this friend could claim some sort of royalty . . . Overall it's not a bad way to pass an hour or so if your a fan of the film or Wes Craven but don't expect any startling revelations .
" After running you over the least I can do is buy you a cup of coffee . " Good story , poor execution .	She Lives by Night starts with sexy Vampire Angela ( Liliana Cabal ) feeding on an unlucky male victim on the side of a road . Once finished she hitchhikes to try & get a lift back to town but is hit by Roger Spellman ( John Woodhouse ) as she steps into the road . Roger stops & runs to Angela but finds that she is totally unharmed except that she has amnesia & can't remember anything about herself . Feeling responsible Roger offers Angela a place to stay until she can sort herself out but they quickly become romantically involved . As the days pass Roger becomes increasingly concerned about Angela & her behaviour , she hates sunlight , never eats proper food & a dark sinister side begins to emerge that Roger really doesn't like . Roger's best friend Carl ( Pat Collins ) disappears & their friend Helen ( Shauna Scott ) suspects Angela & eventually discovers the truth , but will anyone believe her . . . Co-produced & directed by Brett Hull I liked the storyline in She Lives by Night but the final delivery leaves a lot to be desired . The script by co-producer James Stewart has a neat premise & I found the first half of the film a good watch as Angela slowly realises that she is a Vampire & the affect that has on her & Roger , however the second half of the film degenerates into a low-budget boring standard Vampire tale as Angela kills a few people while trying to keep Roger happy . There are only four people in the entire film & they're quite well fleshed out & I thought the dialogue was also pretty good & seemed relaxed & natural . The film is surprisingly long at almost one hour & fifty minutes & I think it would have played a lot better if it had been shortened by ten minutes or so . There is a distinct lack of exploitation elements too & was extremely tame . Director Hull does an OK job , it won't win any awards but it looks alright . There isn't much atmosphere , there aren't really any scares & forget about any sort of blood or gore because there isn't any . She Lives by Night was more of a story driven film which was fine during the first half when it was mildly interesting but towards the end it became rather dull . Technically the film is alright , it's competent throughout at least & considering that it went straight-to-video I couldn't really complain . The acting was pretty decent & Cabal makes for a quite hot looking Vampire . She Lives by Night had a certain potential which it never really fulfilled , I thought it was something a little different to start with but it soon descended into clichéd horror fare that became a chore to sit through . Just about worth a watch if your a fan of the genre but anyone else should probably give it a wide berth .
Average at best .	Hell High starts with a young girl named Brooke Storm ( Amy Beth Erenrich ) playing down the local swamp ( ! ) when two lovers ( Webster Whinery & Karen Russell ) unexpectedly turn up on a motorbike , the guy wants sex with the girl but she says no & in his frustration he rips Brooke's doll apart as she looks on . . . Jump forward ' 18 Years Later ' & Brooke ( Maureen Money ) is now a biology teacher who is having a hard time with a student named Dickens ( Christopher Stryker ) & his gang , Queenie ( Millie Prezioso ) , Smiler ( Jason Brill ) & the gangs newest recruit ex-football star Jon-Jon ( Christopher Cousins ) . Dickens decides to play a prank on Brooke & after finding out where she lives the gang fill plastic bags with mud from the swamp & splatter Brooke's house & pour it over her head as they jump on her roof . Brooke is understandably upset & after Dickens tries to rape her she decides to take revenge on her tormentors . . . Co-written , co-produced & directed by Douglas Grossman & also known as Raging Fury I thought Hell High wasn't anything special . The script by Grossman & Leo Evans is your basic tale of revenge although it takes a while to get to it , you can practically fast forward the entire first 45 minutes as virtually nothing happens , after that point they play the prank on Brooke & things all of a sudden become a lot more interesting as the exploitation elements kick in . Unfortunately I found the whole thing a bit on the tame side , sure someone throwing a bag of swamp mud over you would be upsetting but would it really turn you into a cold blooded killer ? Don't forget that Dickens never actually rapes her either so that cannot be used as any reason . It's certainly nowhere near as exploitative or sleazy as some other revenge films such as the terrible I Spit on Your Grave ( 1979 ) or the utterly brilliant Angel of Vengeance ( 1981 ) which is how a film like this should be done , I mean the viewer needs to feel for the female victim & understand the motivations for what she's doing for the revenge part to have any real impact . The character's are OK but you never really care for anyone which is a problem , the dialogue is functional & nothing else . It's one of those films which is OK to watch to pass the time but if your looking for something outstanding than you won't find it here . I'd imagine I'd have totally forgotten it by the middle of next week . Director Grossman does an OK job on what must have been a low budget , while it isn't going to win any awards for technical achievement it looks OK & occasionally has a nice sleazy atmosphere , it just doesn't sustain it for long enough . There are a few scenes of nudity but nothing that memorable & there's not much in the way of blood or gore either , two people are impaled on spikes , someone has their head bashed in with a rock , someone has a pencil stick in their head , someone is impaled on a poker & someone has a knife cut their throat & none of it is that graphic or shocking . Hell High ( a title which makes no logical sense ) is quite well made considering it's low budget roots although the music was quite good . The acting was OK but nothing special & Mooney is dull & forgettable as Brooke while lead villain Stryker died of AID's almost two years before the film was eventually released as it was shot in 1986 but not released until 1989 . Hell High isn't a particularly good film but at the same time I don't think it's a particularly bad one , it's just all very average & uninspiring . There are much better revenge films out there , watch only if you've got nothing better to do .
Not too bad as far as Steven Seagal's straight-to-video / DVD work is concerned .	Submerged starts as hard as nails ex-military man Chris Cody ( Steven Seagal , also executive producer ) is offered a deal , either he undertakes an assassination & rescue mission for the Government & pocket a hundred grand or he goes to prison for the rest of his life . The choice is as easy one & one that the rest of Cody's team accepts too , their job is to go to Uruguay & rescue some captured US soldiers & kill madman scientist Adrian Lehder ( Nick Brimble ) who as created some method of mind control & is using it for less than friendly reasons including trying to gain control of an entire country . Cody & his team successfully rescue the soldiers but Lehder escapes , while on the submarine Alcatraz heading for the warship Clinton the rescued soldiers turn on their saviours as Lehder's mind control kicks in . With a fully armed nuclear submarine under their control Cody has to prevent a potential disaster , then he & his team head for Lehder himself & the corrupt Government officials who fund & allow his work . . . This British Bulgarian co-production was co-written & directed by Anthony Hickox , to be honest I wasn't expecting that much from Submerged considering the crap Steven Seagal has been churning out lately but I was fairly pleasantly surprised here as I though Submerged was a decent enough straight-to-video / DVD action thriller that wasted an hour or two harmlessly enough . The first hour of Submerged is rather enjoyable in a fun action film sort of way , it moves along at a great pace , there's plenty of action albeit quite low budget & it's good fun . Unfortunately once the shoot-out in the submarine is over & Seagal & co make it back to dry land Submerged turns into a rather dry & somewhat confusing political thriller that ditches the pace & action seen earlier for lots of exposition that is too complex for it's own good . There are double agents , double crosses , mind control , bad guy's , good guy's , shoot-outs , fights & you never quite know what anyone's motivation is or why they are doing what they are . The script is to blame here , it just isn't clear enough & is far too muddled to make complete coherent sense & with a film like Submereged the average viewer just wants to see lots of fights & explosions rather than a muddled plot that made me lose interest . The character's are average for this type of stuff with Seagal his usual by-the-numbers action film clichéd hard as nails dude with a military background who never loses a fight or gets shot in a shoot-out & the main villain is also especially bland this time out . So , the first half is good clean violent Seagal action film fun while the second half is a dry , confused & rather dull political thriller that is worth a watch for sure but ultimately won't totally satisfy fans of either genre . The part set inside the claustrophobic interior of the submarine with Seagal taking out the bad guy's could have been a mini fifteen minute Under Siege 3 & this is when the film is at it's best . The action is pretty good , there's plenty of violence , blood splatter as people are shot , a car chase , an exploding dam & submarine & Seagal single handedly taking out a tank . Like you do . Seagal is overweight in this & he again wears a long baggy coat to try & hide it while the other members of his team wear proper tight fitting military uniforms . Some of the modern souped up directing techniques are a bit annoying at times , from slow motion to fast motion to quick cuts & edits to colour tinting . Apparently filmed in Sofia in Bulgaria this had a supposed budget of about $12 , 000 , 000 & the film has decent production values although the model aeroplane & submarines look terrible . Steven Seagal seems to be almost entirely dubbed in this & when his character talks there are loads of reaction shots of other character's or establishing shots of the surroundings , ex-footballer Vinnie Jones is quite funny while Gary Daniels is alright . Submerged was a lot better than I had expected , it ain't no masterpiece & it's a shame the pace & action of the first half is jettisoned in favour of a muddled thriller but all in all not a bad effort from Seagal & one of his better straight-to-video / DVD flicks .
" Extra ! Extra ! Monster attacks London ! " Pretty good by 50's monster film standards .	Behemoth , the Sea Monster begins as American scientist Steve Karnes ( Gene Evans ) lectures his British counterparts in London about the threat of Nuclear testing & the resultant radioactive materials released into the atmosphere , the British upper-class idiots scoff at his theories . Meanwhile in Cornwall a Fisherman named Tom Trevethan ( Henri Vidon ) has a close encounter with a giant radioactive sea monster & ends up dead , shortly after lots of dead fish wash up onto a beach . Back in London Steve hears the news on the TV & thinks that atomic radiation may be responsible so he heads over to his mate & Government minister Professor James Bickford ( Andre Morell ) who heads the Atomic Energy Commission , together they decide to check the situation in Cornwall out & upon examination of the dead fish their worst fears are realised when it is confirmed that they are radioactive . Karnes eventually discovers that a 70 foot tall , 200 foot long prehistoric Dinosaur has been revived by radiation & is heading towards London destroying all in it's path , it's up to Karnes & Bickford to find a way to destroy it . . . This English American co-production was directed by Eugene Lourie who also co-wrote & gets a production design credit as well together with Douglas Hickox who according to the IMDb was uncredited , well not that it matters but I promise you now the version I saw yesterday definitely credited both directors . The script by Lourie & Daniel James is your standard 50's giant monster / Dinosaur created by radiation on the loose causing huge amounts of property damage type film , Behemoth , the Sea Monster isn't the best example in the genre but it's far from the worst & it's watchable if nothing else . The first half is pretty slow going with lots of people trying to act very seriously & warn all of us about the dangers of radiation ( you see even horror films have messages ! ) but it just about held my attention before the behemoth himself rises from the Thames & attacks a ferry & eventually London itself . This part of the film is pretty fun as we get to see a giant Dinosaur walk through the streets of London , it doesn't do much other than walk around a bit but it's still cool to watch although I'm not sure about this radiation nonsense . I mean every so often the monster emits loads of radiation along with an annoying computer beeping sound when it does ! Films have come a long way since Behemoth , the Sea Monster & anyone who has seen any monster film post Jurassic Park ( 1993 ) will be disappointed , extremely unimpressed with the somewhat stiff looking stop-motion special effects & probably bored but I thought the monster & the film as a whole had a certain likability & innocent charm about them plus it runs for less than 80 minutes so that means it won't take too much of your life up . Directors Lourie & Hickox do alright , most of the film isn't anything special & their overall ambitions were probably fairly low in a ' lets make a monster film where a Dinosaur tramples it's way through London ' sort of way . The monster itself looks OK , it's a bit rubbery & looks a bit too much like a model at times but for the majority of the time it's on screen it's a reasonably decent looking thing animated by Willis H . O'Brien & his team . I particularly liked the shot at night when the monster walks in front of a silhouetted Houses of Parliment & Big Ben , it's actually quite a cool looking scene . The shots of it rising up from the water were achieved using a glove puppet which was so cheap the jaw doesn't even move . Just in case your wondering the monster doesn't get to eat anyone which definitely loses it a star . Technically Behemoth , the Sea Monster is OK , the special effects are alright & it's competently made if nothing else . The acting was OK & everyone did their best . Behemoth , the Sea Monster won't go down as a classic in the genre of giant radiation mutated monsters & Dinosaurs on the rampage films but manages to hold it's head above water & is a decent , fun & entertaining little monster film in it's own right . Don't expect the Earth , don't spend too much money on it & you may just enjoy it .
Despite it not being very good I thought it had a few things going for it .	The Brink starts in ' West Orange , NJ 1931 ' as inventor Thomas Edison's ( Monty Wall ) latest creation has unexpected consequences . . . Jump forward to the present day where engineering student Megan ( Rachel Blazer ) has tracked down the schematics for Edison's invention which supposedly brings ghosts into our world , Megan convinces two of her student friends Bianca ( Heather Chase ) & Todd ( Jason Flowers ) to help her build the machine which they agree to . They set themselves up in an old abandoned & isolated farmhouse 50 miles from anywhere of note & get to work , they quickly discover that Megan's ex boyfriend Leo ( Jeff Ryan ) has joined the party as the ' voice of reason ' . Together they build the machine & turn it on at which point a ghostly figure ( Matt Miller ) appears holding an axe which it then uses to try & kill Todd , whoever said ghosts were friendly . . . Edited , photographed , co-written , produced & directed by Benjamin Cooper I certainly didn't love The Brink but I saw some potential here & thought it was watchable if nothing else . The script by Cooper & John Bowker takes itself extremely seriously & is a little slow to get going which it's main problem , films such as The Brink need to hit you hard straight away & keep you interested throughout , something which the makers of The Brink didn't do & it's over 40 minutes into the film before the four friends turn on the machine by which time it will have probably lost 75 % of it's audience who will have either turned it off & stuck Terminator 2 ( 1991 ) in the DVD player or switched it over to MTV . Hey , I'm all for a slow measured build up but this is ridiculous & quite frankly there's not that much to build up too ! The character's are OK actually & despite being of the teenage variety they didn't annoy me that much , the dialogue was alright & the basic story had potential especially a really neat twist towards the end which a lot more should have been made out of . Generally speaking The Brink isn't a particularly great film & I won't be in any hurry to see it again but there are one or two nice moments here & the story with it's twist had potential which unfortunately wasn't fully realised probably to the low budget & technical restrictions . Director Cooper does a decent job & I have to say The Brink actually looks like a proper film as opposed to a glorified home movie which is how I think a lot of recently made low budget shot on a camcorder type horror junk that litters video shop shelves look . I wouldn't say it's particularly scary but there are one or two atmospheric moments dotted throughout , there's a distinct lack of gore & violence as well . Someone gets her head sliced in half horizontally with an axe accompanied by a sound effect that resembles someone stepping in some mud & there's a chopped off hand but nothing else worth mentioning . I'm not sure what sort of budget The Brink had but I'll bet it was pretty low so bear that in mind , at least it's reasonably well made & watchable if nothing else . The Brink has a similar storyline to White Noise ( 2005 ) & even though it was apparently shot 2 years before White Noise came out The Brink was released straight-to-video / DVD after . The acting was OK but nothing special . The Brink was better than I had expected although to be honest that wasn't going to be hard , I can't really recommend it as my head tells me it's a terrible film but my heart says otherwise . I'll leave this one up to you & give it a middle of the road .
Average 70's mad scientist film .	Sssssss starts as brilliant herpetologist Dr . Carl Stoner ( Strother Martin ) approaches a fellow colleague & high school teacher Dr . Ken Daniels ( Richard B . Shull ) about the possibility of taking on one of his students as a lab assistant as his last one suddenly left , Daniels recommends David Blake ( Dirk Benedict ) who accepts the position . Dr . Stoner conducts his research & experiments in a laboratory in his large isolated country house who he shares with his daughter Kristina ( Heather Menzies ) , Stoner puts David to work straight away & also informs him that he will have to have a series of immunisation jabs in case he is bitten & gives him his first . However , Dr . Stoner is in fact injecting David with a serum that will transform humans into half snake , half human hybrids that will be able to survive the apocalypse & / or global warming due to pollution ( the answer to two everyday problems in one small syringe ! ) . Dr . Stoner didn't count on the fact that his daughter Kristina & David become romantically involved ( before he turns green ) which leaves him with a moral dilemma , it also appears that his previous assistant has been reported missing . As Dr . Stoner's experiments & misdemeanours come to light just how far will he go to protect & further his work . . . Released in 1973 on a double bill with The Boy Who Cried Werewolf & also known under the much better title of Ssssnake in the UK Sssssss was directed by Bernard L . Kowalski & I personally thought it was average . The script by Hal Dresner could have been better , it takes itself extremely seriously which considering the material probably wasn't the best idea ever . It's a bit on the pedestrian side too , by far the most interesting plot thread in Sssssss is David being turned into a man snake but until the final 15 or so minutes this aspect of the film feels almost secondary to the various other dull sub plots , themes & ideas . The killing of the bully Steve ( Reb Brown ) seems very tacked on & completely unnecessary , the in fighting between Stoner & Daniels over the grant money amounts to nothing & has no bearing on anything when the film finishes & what about the snake man at the carnival ? What happens to him ? ! I also couldn't figure out the end , why did he let the cobra bite him again ? Why does the film just suddenly finish ? Having said that if you've got nothing better better to do for 100 plus minutes then Sssssss will pass the time harmlessly enough , just don't expect an action packed masterpiece . Director Kowalski does an OK job , the film looks & feels very 70's . The set pieces are a bit disappointing as most of the snakes that are supposed to look menacing just lie there doing nothing in particular , this especially hurts the scene when Daniels has to grab a key from inside a tank with a very docile looking snake inside . The bit when he's attacked by a lethargic lazy looking python doesn't fare much better in this respect . Forget about any blood or gore & the version I watched has Heather Menzies nude scene covered up with some superimposed leaves ! With a supposed budget of about $1 , 300 , 000 Sssssss seemed a fairly well funded film , it's generally well made throughout & the snake man make-up effects are pretty good although the final transformation looks very dated & the final ' creature ' looks suspiciously like a normal snake , where did David's body mass go exactly ! ? Apparently the poisonous snakes weren't milked or defanged during production , just think one wrong move & we may never have had Face in the A-Team ! The acting was OK . Sssssss is an OK way to pass the time but there are plenty of unanswered questions & a loose narrative . Fun in a ' they don't make ' em like this anymore ' sort of way but by no means brilliant .
Not bad but not as great as many make out .	Highlander is set in mid 80's New York where Connor MacCleod ( Christopher Lambert ) lives & works as an antiques dealer , however he in reality belongs to an ancient race known as the immortals & was in fact born in the Scottish highlands in 1518 . An immortal can only be killed by decapitation , a war has raged between immortals for centuries until only two remain , Connor & an evil Russian dude named the Kurgan ( Clancy Brown ) who has an attitude problem . Now in 80's New York the last two immortals meet for the ultimate prize , some form of supernatural power that will gift the winner unimaginable powers & possibly spell the end of the human race if Kurgan wins . . . This seemingly very popular American British co-production was directed by Russell Mulcahy & I have to say while I thought it was alright I don't think it quite deserves the stellar reputation it has amongst some , far be it from me to say what someone should enjoy but I just don't see anything particularly special here in Highlander at all . Originally released in the US in a slightly cut down 110 minute version the longer European cut ran 116 minutes & that is the one I will be basing my comments on . The script by Gregory Widen , Peter Bellwood & Larry Ferguson is certainly ambitious in it's central concept with a secret race of ancient immortals who have waged a private war with each other for centuries in order to obtain some secret power that will let whoever has it rule the Earth but the mishmash of ideas never really came together that well for me . The film constantly flips forwards & back in time to tell the story that is unfolding in present day New York but at the same time weaves plenty of flashbacks to the past to reveal how the current situation came about , certainly for the first hour or so Highlander never really settles down which some may like but I didn't to be honest . Just as I was getting used to one location & one set of character's the film suddenly switches back or forward to a different time-line which doesn't really give time for character's to develop . There are some odd comedy relief moments too which I thought were out of place & there's a distinct lack of explanation for a lot of what happened including any sort of background on who the immortals as a race were or where they came from . I think the main message of the film is that knowledge is the real power as evidenced by the ability MacCleod receives at the end . Having said that it moves along at a decent pace , it's certainly something different , there's some pretty good sci-fi set-pieces & it kept me entertained for a couple of hours if nothing else . Highlander resembles a music video at times with the way it's lit , very staged fighting scenes & director Mulcahy constantly starts a shot out wide & then has his camera move in closer on the action or the scene to presumably get some sort of sense of scale . This technique gives Highlander quite an epic feel at times as there are many wide shots which reveal a lot of scope & scale . The fight scenes are alright , there are some sword fights , a couple of mild decapitations & a slightly cheap looking action scene in which a car drives on the wrong side of the road . I must admit I only saw this a few hours ago & none of the set-pieces really stand out in my memory & I'm having a hard time thinking of them . With a fairly modest budget of $16 , 000 , 000 Highlander is well made with decent production values although some of the optical effects look very dated . Filmed in New York , Scotland , Wales & London . Rock band Queen provided some of the very out of place sounding songs & music . The acting is , well , OK I suppose . Lambert can't really act , Clancy Brown overacts wildly while the always watchable Sean Connery brings a bit of class to proceedings in a small role . Highlander is an alright sci-fi film that tries to be out there & different & it is to be fair to it but that doesn't automatically mean it's any good , does it ? Followed by five sequels , Highlander II : The Quickening ( 1991 ) , Highlander III : The Sorcerer ( 1994 ) , Highlander : Endgame ( 2000 ) , Highlander : The Source ( 2007 ) & the animated film Highlander : The Search for Vengeance ( 2007 ) as well as two live action TV show's Highlander ( 1992 - 1998 ) which ran for 119 episodes & Highlander : The Raven ( 1998 ) plus two animated show's Highlander : The Animated Series ( 1994 ) & Highlander : The Adventure Begins ( 1994 ) .
More murder mystery than horror , average at best .	Matinée starts in the small Canadian town of Holsten B . C . as it's annual horror film festival is taking place at the Paramount theatre , it's the big night of the premiere of ' Murder Camp Bad Blood ' & the audience is in a frenzy as scenes of murder & mutilation ( knowingly similar to the original Friday the 13th ( 1980 ) ) are projected on screen for their entertainment . However one audience member named Kelly ( Kerry Sandomirsky ) has her evening ruined when she looks across at her boyfriend ( Boyd McConnachie ) & discovers that someone has stuck a great big knife straight through his throat . . . Jump forward ' Two Years Later ' & Holsten is reviving it's horror film festival after it's years hiatus , Detective Al Jason ( Ron White ) is already receiving letter from concerned members of the public about it not being a good idea to restart the festival . Unfazed by both past & present events the theatre's manager Earle Gardener ( Don S . Davis ) pushes ahead with the festival & the premiere of ' Bad Blood II ' but it's not long before lightening strikes twice & the dead bodies begin to pile up . . . This Canadian production was written & directed by Richard Martin & is an average murder mystery at best . The script is a little on the slow side for my liking & doesn't seem able to decide whether it wants to be a homage to classic horror as it recreates various scenes from the likes of Friday the 13th , The Texas Chainsaw Massacre ( 1974 ) , Psycho ( 1960 ) & a few other's as well as sticking lots of horror film posters up all over the theatre where the story takes place . Despite all these horror film references & nods Matinée is a cop thriller at heart as the murders are very few in number & aren't like those from your typical stalk'n'slash horror , there more restrained & there's a reason why people are killed in Matinée rather than there just being a psycho killer on the loose . The eventual identity of the killer isn't that surprising & I doubt much effort was put into their motives , it all seemed rather sedate & a bit dull . Matinée would probably have worked better as an hour long TV film rather than 90 plus minutes , it's one of those films that I don't think anything is particularly wrong with it but at the same time it didn't exactly impress me either & it's OK for what it is no more , no less . Director Martin doesn't give the film any sort of life or style , it's all rather bland , flat & instantly forgettable . The character's are as you would expect for this type of film , the tough cop , the sleazy reporter trying to stir up trouble , the obvious suspect who you just know is innocent because everything points to him & the disposable teenage victims . Forget about any gore as there isn't any worth mentioning , Matinée is a very tame film . Technically Matinée is a competently made-for-TV film but has all the blandness you would expect from such a production . The acting was OK but nothing spectacular , The X-Files ( 1993 - 2002 ) cigarette smoking man regular William B . Davis has a small role . Matinée is an OK murder mystery film , it's more of a thriller than a horror film & has little that you would associate with the genre apart from the horror festival setting & the films that play on screen during them , for me that simply wasn't enough . Average at best , watch only if your desperate or your a fan of dull cop thrillers .
Watchable enough , but different from most of the Dracula films Hammer churned out .	The opening credits run over various London landmarks , there is also a shadow of Dracula in the bottom right hand corner of the screen which gets bigger and bigger until the entire screen is engulfed by the shadow which I thought was a pretty cool way to open the film . We begin in Pelham House , an isolated mansion deep in the English countryside that belongs to an organisation called the ' Pysichal Examination and Research Group ' or PERG for short . An undercover agent called Hanson ( Maurice O'Connell ) has been found out while investigating high ranking officials involved in possible Satanic Rituals . He manages to escape , but is badly injured in the process . Back at headquarters Hanson is questioned by his boss , Peter Torrence ( William Franklyn ) . Hanson talks about five men participating in a bizarre Satanic Ritual performed by a Chinese woman , Chin Yang ( Barbara Yu Ling ) in which she smears blood from a dead Cockerel over a naked woman , I guess it passes the time . Hanson then dies . Hanson managed to take some photo's of those involved and Torrence gets his secretary , Jane ( Valerie Van Ost ) who wears giant spectacles , to develop them . They show four men , MP John Porter ( Richard Mathews ) , Colonel Sir Arthur Freeborn ( Lockwood West ) , Lord Carradine ( Patrick Barr ) and Nobel prize winning Professor Julian Keeley ( Freddie Jones ) who specialises in germ warfare and diseases of the blood . Hanson had spoke of five men , however the fifth and final photo just showed Pelham House's door . Torrence teams up with a Scotland Yard special branch Inspector named Murray ( Micheal Coles ) , together they decide to visit Professor Larimer Van Helsing ( Peter Cushing ) who is an expert on the occult and might be able to help them . Meanwhile Jane is kidnapped by some bikers , taken to Pelham House and turned into one of Count Dracula's ( Christopher Lee ) vampire brides . At Van Helsing's house , Van Helsing's granddaughter Jessica ( Joanna Lumley ) lets slip that Van Helsing knows Professor Keeley . They decide that Van Helsing should pay an informal visit to Keeley and talk to him . Once there Van Helsing finds out Keeley is working on a deadly plague like virus that has the potential to wipe out all life on earth , before Van Helsing can obtain much information out of Keeley he is knocked out . When he regains consciousness Van Helsing finds Keeley hanging from a beam , dead . All of Keeleys experiments and the plague virus have been taken . Torrence , Murray and Jessica pay a visit to Pelham house and discover a basement full of female vampires . Managing to escape and team back up with Van Helsing they come to the startling conclusion that Count Dracula is posing as a reclusive millionaire businessman named D . D . Denham , and is planning to wipe out the entire human race and is using high ranking Government officials to help him as the ultimate form of revenge ! Directed by Alan Gibson this was the eighth film from Hammer to feature Dracula , being made between Dracula A . D . 1972 ( 1972 ) and Legend of the 7 Golden Vampires ( 1974 ) . The script by Don Houghton plays like a cross between a James Bond and Dracula film . At least it's pretty interesting and it kept me entertained even if Christopher Lee as Dracula again isn't given much to do . I really liked the way Dracula was killed at the end , I liked the symbolism of the hawthorn bush . And since when was running water from fire sprinklers able to destroy vampires ? Acting wise , Cushing and Lee are both class as one would expect . The rest of the cast is OK . There's not much blood or gore , a couple of cool stakings through the heart and some gunshot wounds is about it . There's a bit of nudity , especially during the Satanic Ritual sequence , which gets played a few times . I didn't think it was anywhere as near as bad as many make out . As long as it's taken for what it is , it's good fun . Worth a watch at least .
OK spy thriller thing .	Puppet on a Chain starts in L . A . where three people are killed by a professional hit-man after stealing some imported heroin . . . American narcotics cop Paul Sherman ( Sven-Bertil Taube ) is sent to Amsterdam to investigate their murders & the illegal importation of heroin from Holland into the US , a sort of kill two birds with one stone operation . Sherman's contact in Amsterdam Jimmy Duclos ( Drewe Henley ) is assassinated at Schipol Airport before they even meet so he's on the back foot straight away , then he realises he is being followed so the bad guy's know he's there . He meets his other contact undercover officer Maggie ( Barbara Parkins ) who says Jimmy's girlfriend might know something & so begins Sherman's dangerous investigation into one of Amsterdam's biggest drug smuggling operations & the people behind it . . . This British production was directed by Geoffrey Reeve although the end credits say that Don Sharp directed the boat sequence & ' additional scenes ' which never sounds great & is a low rent James Bond sort of thing , it's an OK time waster but fairly forgettable when all said & done . The script by Alistair MacLean again with ' additional material ' by Don Sharp & Paul Wheeler doesn't quite know what it wants to be & the influence of three different writers all pulling in opposite directions occasionally show's , is it an action film ? Well not really because there are only two or three sequences you could describe as action orientated . Is it a thriller ? Well again not really as it's not that thrilling or gritty or tough enough . In truth it's somewhere between the two & never quite succeeds at being either , I must admit that Puppet on a Chain has one of the most predictable plot twists I've ever seen . I guessed it within twenty minutes & I was absolutely right , I just thought about how a writer would try & ' surprise ' the audience by making the person least likely to be the bad guy turn out to be the bad guy & it's just far too obvious & as a plot device was way past it's sell by date even in 1971 ! To be fair the writing & lack of decent character's really don't help matters , there is also a strangely out of place moralistic sequence in which Sherman takes a trip around an Amsterdam morgue to look at dead drug addicts for no real reason which I suppose was a message to anyone watching that drugs are bad ! Director's Reeve & Sharp do OK , I must admit I love the Amsterdam location as it's unusual & I've been there myself on a few occasions . To be brutally honest it's not the safest place in the world & I speak from personal experience but it can be a pretty cool place all the same , it's just a shame about all the drunks , the people high on drugs & the prostitution the three of which can make for volatile situations . . . The action is brief here & not really worth mentioning apart from a 10 minute long boat chase through the canal's of Amsterdam , this may initially sound exciting but when you have one boat in front & another one behind chasing it it becomes tedious quickly as there's not much else happening . The violence is tame & the best scene in the film the opening long continuous shot of the assassin driving up to a house , entering it & killing three people inside in one swift camera movement . There's also a silly James Bond moment when a villain instead of just killing Sherman there & then he rigs an elaborate trap for Sherman in which he is going to die from the high pitched sounds made by chiming clocks ! Sherman manages to escape James Bond fashion too . Technically the film is alright , the locations are nice enough & it has reasonable production values throughout . It's filmed in a bland sort of way , it's watchable but forgettable . The acting is alright by a largely unknown , by me anyway , cast . Puppet on a Chain is an OK James Bond type action thriller that doesn't quite come off as exciting or thrilling & it is one of the most predictable films I've ever seen with one of the most obvious twists . Nothing special .
Decent enough slasher but nothing special .	Drive-Thru is set in the small American town of Blanco Carne where local resident Jack Benjamin ( John Gilbert ) has built up a chain of fast food restaurants named ' Hella-Burger ' , however the story is tinged with tragedy as his son who played Horny the Clown in all the TV commercials & promotions was killed in a terrible accident some years ago on his 18th birthday . However it seems like Horny has come back from the dead to avenge his untimely death at the hands of a prank gone bad by killing the teenage children of those responsible , or maybe it's some nut-case just dressed up as Horny the Clown ? Watch it to find out . . . Written & directed by Brendan Cowles & Shane Kuhn this is actually pretty poor fare saved by a good killer & the fact it doesn't last long . The script is basically a rip-off of A Nightmare on Elm Street ( 1983 ) as a group of parents past indiscretion's come back to haunt them & take revenge on their children so in that respect it's not original & is pretty predictable , then there's Horny the Clown killer who is indeed a pretty cool killer but the whole twisted killer clown thing was done with far more imagination & wit in Killer Klowns from Outer Space ( 1988 ) & I'd like to see anyone try & argue with that . The teenage character's are poor & not very likable which doesn't help , the so called funny one-liners are actually pretty lame & the jokes aren't particularly funny either . Then there's the story which tries to keep the killer identity secret until the end , well all I can say is you don't need to be a rocket scientist to work it out . There's no background given to why this guy has risen from the grave & if he is some sort of demonic killer he seems very human at times in what he does . To it's credit it's moves along at a fair pace & didn't bore me that much . Director's Cowles & Kuhn do a great job here & this looks really nice & it seems like there was actually some money behind it . Unfortunately while the film looks very professional it's not scary , it has zero atmosphere & the bad one-liners fall flat . So basically you have this incredibly good looking film but it has absolutely no substance to it whatsoever . There is also a distinct lack of gore , sure there's blood & a few ' plastic meat clever stuck on someones forehead ' type effects , a stupid scene where someone has their face burnt by having a microwave with a hole in the bottom placed over their head & held in place on them with steel chains & a CGI sequence where someone is cut in half but there's nothing memorable or particularly convincing here . Technically Drive-Thru looks really good with great production values & it's certainly well made . Having said that I hated the rock music that is used every time Horny the Clown is on screen , it simply kills any tension & ended up giving me a headache . The acting is alright . Drive-Thru seems to have had a lot of positive comments on the IMDb , I'm not really sure why as this is a pretty routine , predictable , virtually bloodless to get an ' R ' rating , filled with comedy that isn't funny slasher film that has a decent killer but very little else . Prehaps we have been starved of good low budget horror for a number of years that we almost want to like this , anyway this is average at best & predictable rubbish at worst . Watch it if your desperate .
" Movies are bottom of the entertainment food chain for me . " Not bad , not brilliant , very average .	The Forsaken starts with Sean ( Kerr Smith ) getting a job where he has to deliver a car across country to Miami within five days with the added bonus that he can attend his sisters wedding on the cheap . While on his journey a guy named Nick ( Brendan Fehr ) ask's him for a ride & he'll pay for the gas , being a tight little git Sean accepts . Unfortunately for Sean this decision turns out to be a bad one as Nick is in fact hunting Vampires that roam the desert in an attempt to kill the Forsaken , a head Vampire named Kit ( Johnathon Schaech ) who spreads the Vampire virus . Along the way they encounter Megan ( Izabella Miko ) who has been bitten & is close to turning into a Vampire herself , she bites Sean so he also becomes infected with the virus which means he too will become a vampire unless they destroy the source of the virus . Nick uses Megan as bait to lure Kit & his gang into the open where he can put an end to their evil blood-sucking ways . . . Written & directed by J . S . Cardone I thought The Forsaken was a decent way to pass 90 odd minutes but wasn't anything special or spectacular . The script takes a lot of modern cinematic Vampire themes & ideas , it's a sort of mix of the likes of The Lost Boys ( 1987 ) , Near Dark ( 1987 ) , From Dusk Till Dawn ( 1996 ) , Blade ( 1998 ) & Vampires ( 1998 ) all of which are better than The Forsaken together with the standard isolated desert road trip type setting of The Hitcher ( 1986 ) & Thelma & Louise ( 1991 ) , there's nothing original or nothing we haven't seen before in The Forsaken that's for sure . The character's are your typical teens , the dialogue tries to be hip & modern as it refers to the likes of MTV . To it's credit the film moves along at a fair pace & isn't boring although I'd hardly call it exciting . There is also a criminal lack of Vampire action & lets face it that's the only reason we're watching it , isn't it ? The Forsaken is one of those films which is perfectly watchable & entertaining enough in it's own right but within five minutes of it finishing you'll have forgotten all about it . Director Cardone , who directed one time British ' Video Nasty ' The Slayer ( 1982 ) , does an OK job but it's hardly the most exciting film to watch . There are a lot of dull sandy yellow desert shots which give the film a bland look . There are a couple of OK car chases & a few decent explosions but again it's all rather average & middle of the road , it certainly doesn't get the blood pumping that's for sure . Gore wise The Forsaken is a disappointment , there is one scene where someone has their heart ripped out , someone has their throat slit , someone has their head blown off with a shotgun & there is some blood drinking but that's it & Cardone directs with fast editing cuts so you see the absolute minimum he can get away with . On the IMDb's main page for The Forsaken there are some still photo's from the film including one where Sean is holding what looks like a jar of eyeballs , well I only saw it a few hours ago & I'm positive this scene never appears in the version I watched so maybe the film was cut for an ' R ' rating or something . With a very reasonable sounding $5 , 000 , 000 budget The Forsaken doesn't look like it , sure there are a few action scenes & explosions but other than that it's rather dull & unadventurous . The acting is quite good here actually , I liked Schaech as the main villain & the two young leads were likable enough . Despite being in the film for most of it's duration Miko doesn't say a single word until the final 10 minutes or so . The Forsaken is an OK time-waster , it's perfectly watchable but there are many better Vampire films out there so why would you bother with this ? If your a horror nut like me then yeah give it a go but more casual viewers would be advised to think carefully first . Just about worth a watch but don't bust a gut doing so .
Disappointingly dull psychological horror .	Magic starts as magician & ventriloquist Charles ' Corky ' Withers ( Anthony Hopkins ) is about to hit the big time as his agent Ben Greene ( Burgess Meredith ) has set up a pilot TV show for a potential series on NBC . However in the contract there is a mandatory medical exam which scares Corky , in fact it scares him to the extent he travels to the isolation of his hometown where he checks into a motel run by Peggy Ann Snow ( Ann-Margret ) whom he used to have crush on when they were teenagers at school . Corky & Peggy get together & decide to run off but Corky has a dark secret , it seems his sinister puppet Fats is running the show & regularly speaks to Corky telling him what to do & his demands aren't always nice . . . Directed by Richard Attenborough ( probably better known for playing billionaire John Hammond in Jurassic Park ( 1992 ) he apparently only agreed to make Magic to finance his next film Ghandi ( 1982 ) ) this is one of those films that seems to divide people , personally I didn't like it that much but it's not a complete failure . The script by William Goldman was based on his own novel of the same name & isn't really a straight forward horror film as such , it certainly doesn't play to the genres conventions & feels more like a psychological thriller with dark undertones . Even though Fats the dummy is creepy a dummy is all it is , it's not alive & it isn't another killer puppet . As a whole I thought Magic was a bit on the boring side , it's certainly slow going at times , it drags & isn't exactly enthralling if you know what I mean . It's a character study as much as anything else , a character study of a man who is basically losing his marbles & has a split personality . So it's really down to whether you like slow moving sustained films which will decide how much you like it , there are a couple of murders to keep the impatient among us awake but they come a little too late to save it . It's an OK watch I suppose , there's nothing really wrong with it but I didn't think it was anything special & that twist ending is rather strange . Director Attenborough does a decent job , you get the sense that every shot was meticulously arranged & considered . It has a nice look about it & is well made but there's not much style to it . The Fats dummy is a suitably creepy piece of wood but , well it's a dummy & doesn't really do much . There's a bit of blood when someone is stabbed but it's neither violent or gory . Technically the film is great , it's very well made & has high production values . The acting is good from a decent cast , a pre fame Hopkins does OK . Magic is an alright film , it really depends on you want & expect , if your looking for a killer puppet film forget it but if you are looking for something more subtle & psychological then you could do worse than Magic . Average at best in my opinion .
" Why don't you just think of yourself as lunch . " Watchable enough horror film but nothing special .	Sleepwalkers starts with a little bit of explanatory on screen text that goes something like this " sleepwalker , Nomadic shape-shifting creatures with human and feline origins . Vulnerable to the deadly scratch of the cat , the sleepwalker feeds upon the life-force of virginal human females . Probable source of the Vampire legend " - Chillicoathe Encyclopaedia of Arcane Knowledge 1st Edition , 1884 . I guess that was the easiest & laziest way for the filmmakers to establish what sleepwalkers are without lots of boring exposition . For most of it's running time Sleepwalkers is set in ' Travis , Indiana ' where the last two remaining sleepwalkers Mary Brady ( Alice Krige ) & her son Charles ( Brian Krause ) live in a farmhouse , the same one used in the classic T . V . series The Waltons ( 1972 - 1981 ) believe it or not . They recently moved there from Ohio & Charles is showing an interest in one of his new classmate's , the rather fine looking Tanya Robertson ( Madchen Amick ) . Tanya starts to fall for his handsome boyish looks & charm but not everyone is as easily convinced including one of Charles teachers , Mr Fallows ( Glenn Shadix ) who discovers that his transfer papers are frauds & Charles isn't who he says he is & definitely didn't relocate from Ohio . After taking care of Mr . Fallows & having a run in with a cop named Andy Simpson ( Dan Martin ) Charles decides to make his move for Tanya as both time for himself & his Mother is running out & they have to feed soon , but Tanya doesn't intend on letting two sleepwalkers suck her life-force dry & plans on giving as good as she gets . . . Co-produced & directed by Mick Garris I thought Sleepwalkers was an average horror film at best . The script written by Stephen King & not based on any of his previous works is silly , very vague & doesn't make much sense . The entire set-up of Sleepwalkers is achieved in that opening paragraph of text & no other explanation for the existence of sleepwalkers is given , neither why they need the life-force of virgins to live or why they are so vulnerable to cats . We , the viewer that is , have to accept what happens during the film with virtually no reasoning to back anything up . The word underdeveloped comes to mind . The script also chucks in an incestuous relationship between Charles & Mary but this amounts to one scene of them supposedly having sex together in bed & is neither mentioned again or elaborated on at all . The sleepwalkers also seem able to magically make things invisible which is a neat trick to have but hardly plausible , this ability ends up feeling out of place in a film about cat like creatures & as a whole the script seems to take itself very seriously which considering what I just said wasn't the way to go , was it ? Talking of taking itself seriously what's all the jokey one-liners by Charles & Mary all about ? The biggest single plot point which I just can't get over is if Tanya was so important to the sleepwalkers survival why did they just not kill her when they had the perfect opportunity to ? Why did Mary let Charles take her to the cemetery ? Why not just keep her at the farmhouse ? Why does Charles attract so much attention to himself by playing around with the police when I'd have thought he would want to keep a low profile ? Sleepwalkers isn't all bad though , it moves along at a fairly good pace & when all said & done it's an entertaining enough way to waste 90 odd minutes as long as you can suspend your disbelief & not ask too many question's . The special effects are OK & there is some decent gore in Sleepwalkers like a severed hand , bitten off fingers , a corkscrew in an eye , an impalement , a pencil stuck in someones ear & someone is stabbed with some corn , don't ask . The sleepwalkers themselves when finally revealed look alright if a little cheap . The acting is OK & Sleepwalkers features a number of cameo's by various horror icons like Stephen King himself who plays the cemetery caretaker , John Landis as a lab technician & Joe Dante as his assistant , Clive Barker & Tobe Hooper as forensic officers & Luke Skywalker himself Mark Hamill as a cop in the opening sequence . Ron Perlman also turns up in a small role . Technically Sleepwalkers is above average for a low budget horror with nice production values throughout , it does look a bit bland at times though & director Garris fails to generate or sustain much atmosphere or tension . Sometimes Sleepwalkers looks & feels a bit too much like a bland & forgettable T . V . film . A quick word about the music & specifically the main theme , Boadicea by Enya which sounded very familiar because The Fugees used it as backing for their song Ready Or Not & it sounded strange to hear it pop up on occasion during Sleepwalkers . Overall I didn't hate Sleepwalkers but neither did I love it , I found it very middle of the road . There's nothing particularly wrong with it but there's nothing particularly good either . Sleepwalkers is a reasonable way to pass 90 odd minutes if you are able to forget about the plot holes & just accept what Garris & King are telling you without too many question's . . .
" This is the country , people have a lot of spare time up here . " I thought it was OK .	Silent Warnings starts at ' Brightwood College ' where Layne Vossimer ( A . J . Buckley ) meets with with his girlfriend Macy ( Callie De Fabry ) & their friends Stephen ( David O'Donell ) his girlfriend Katrina ( Michelle Borth ) along with Maurice ( Randford Doherty ) & Iris ( Kim Onasch ) who are all going to drive out to the farm Layne has inherited after his cousin Joe ( Stephen Baldwin ) was killed in an accident . They intend to ' do ' the place up & Layne plans to sell it off , simple eh ? Well not really because the six friends hadn't counted on the alien beings who are using crop circles in the corns fields surrounding the farm as a means of teleportation . . . Co-written & directed by Christian McIntire while I didn't think Silent Warnings was brilliant or even approaching it I thought it was an OK watch . The script by McIntire & Bill Lundy is all build up & scene setting for the first hour & then it changes direction completely & turns into an all out alien invasion film which is a shift in direction that felt like it came out of nowhere . The first hour tries to keep you in the dark a much as possible as nothing for definite is revealed but the presence of alien life-forms is obviously hinted at , it has a go at trying to explain the significance of the strange phenomena of crop circles which it does reasonably enough but when all said & done you just can't help but feel that Silent Warnings is a cheap Signs ( 2002 ) rip-off & considering the two were made & released so close together it's hard to put up a defence against it . There are just so many similarities for it to be a coincidence , however I suppose the good new is if you liked Signs & are after something very similar then Silent Warnings is definitely the film for you . It moves along at a reasonable pace although the first hour mainly relies on suggestion & careful build up , the character's are OK & not as annoying as many all teen cast films , the dialogue is alright & I actually found it quite watchable for what it was but then again why should you listen to me ? Director McIntire does OK , this looks like a proper film & not the usual low grade stuff that goes straight-to-video & because of the cast that makes me believe this was maybe intended for a theatrical release . There are one or two half decent ' jump ' scare moments although in the end they're cheap scares , there's a certain mysterious feel to the film during the first hour & it has it's moments . Now the bad news , the alien CGI computer effects are absolutely terrible , no question they are awful & the aliens inspire fits of laughter rather than screams . Oh well , nothings perfect I suppose . Techncially the films pretty good terrible CGI effects apart , it's well made throughout with decent enough production values . Apparently Silent Warnings was shot in Sofia in Bulgaria . The acting was alright & Billy Zane is still paying the price for appearing in The Phantom ( 1996 ) as all he can get is acting jobs in films like this shot in Bulgaria . Silent Warnings isn't the best film ever but I found it a harmless enough way to pass 80 odd minutes , you could do a lot better for sure but you could do a lot worse as well .
Largely uneventful psychological thriller .	Single White Female is set in New York City where Allison Jones ( Bridget Fonda ) shares an apartment with her boyfriend Sam ( Steven Weber ) , unfortunately Allison finds out that Sam has slept with his ex-wife & kicks him out . Feeling lonely in a large apartment Allison advertises for a flatmate eventually letting a room to a seemingly normal & pleasant young lady named Hedra ( Jennifer Jason Leigh ) . At first things are fine but when Allison decides to take Sam back & wants Hedra to move out things take a sinister turn as Hedra turns out to be a bit of a psycho . . . Produced & directed Barbet Schroeder one has to say I was looking forward to watching Single White Female but ended up being disappointed with it . The script by Don Roos was based on the novel ' SWF Seeks Same ' by John Lutz & is a rather slow moving & tame psychological thriller that takes absolutely ages to get to where it's going . I was sat down watching this last night & it felt like I had been watching it for hours before anything of any note had happened , I'm all for a good solid steady build up that develops the character's & story but there has to be something there to maintain ones interest , right ? Also when all said & done I found Single White Female disappointing tame & very predictable , there's nothing here to get you on the edge of your seat , there's nothing here that is going to shock & the character's who you think will survive do & those you think won't don't . A lot more could have been done with the story , Hedra isn't given much background at all & we never really get inside her head to understand her motives or what she's thinking , most of the film is set in the same apartment & again I'd have liked Hedra to maybe ruin every aspect of Allison's life including her profession . As a whole Single White Female is a passable if forgettable thriller that could have been so much better if the makers had taken a few more risks & upped the pace a little . Director Schroeder does alright , he uses the large apartment set quite well but there's not much style to the film & it's largely forgettable . The makers have been rather conservative & it's not what i would call scary , there's not much tension & the violence levels are virtually zero . There a few gunshot wounds , someone is stabbed with a screwdriver & someone is killed by having the stiletto heel of a shoe stuck into their eyeball but otherwise nothing . There is some nudity though from both Fonda & Leigh including a brief masturbation scene ( it's not graphic so don't get excited ) . Technically the film is good with high production values , it's well made without ever being spectacular in any way . The acting is fine from a decent cast but they really aren't given much to do . Single White Female could have been a great film if the makers had cranked up the tension , scares & thrills unfortunately they didn't so it isn't . Worth a watch if there isn't anything else on the other side or if your desperate but it's all rather average so don't bust a gut to see it .
Apart from the action scenes I thought it was crap .	Danny the Dog is set in Glasgow in England where vicious gangster & loan shark Bart ( Bob Hoskins ) has raised Danny ( producer Jet Li ) since childhood , he has raised Danny to be his personal weapon . While kept on a leash Danny is calm & sedate but once Bart takes the lease off Danny turns into an unstoppable killing machine who does exactly what Bart tells him , the threat of taking Danny's leash off keeps the people who owe him money in check . One day Danny manages to escape from Bart's influence & a kindly old piano tuner named Sam ( Morgan Freeman ) takes him in & teaches him humanity , teaches him to care , to love & to appreciate life for what it is including how to spot a ripe melon . Danny completely changes from a sadistic uncaring killer to a pretty nice guy but his past soon catches up with him as Bart wants his dog back at any cost . . . Widely known under the alternative title of Unleashed this American , French & English co-production was directed by Louis Leterrier & has a really oddball concept that I found more than a bit bizarre & rather unnerving . The idea of someone kept literally like a dog on a leash for the personal use of a gangster just seemed preposterous in the extreme , why had Danny never tried to escape before ? Also the notion that a man would take a complete stranger into his home , feed him , look after him & basically trust him out of the goodness of his heart is hard to swallow & living here in the UK I can tell you I don't know anyone who would do such a stupid thing . I am not being funny but Danny could have been anybody & done anything to him & his daughter , people just aren't that trusting . Then there's the erratic pace , the opening twenty odd minutes is quite good but then the next forty almost put me to sleep as Sam teaches Danny to be a human being , to feel & find his humanity . Again I just found this middle part of the film an absolute bore & I started to regularly check my watch to see how much longer this was going to last . The final thirty odd minutes does pick up again though with the reemergence of Bart & some nice fights & action although overall I can't say I liked anything about this odd & often extremely boring & dull little film apart from the fights & action . The ending didn't work for me either , why would Bart want Danny to kill him ? Everything in the film up to that point suggested Bart was out for himself & was only ever interested in saving himself & making money for himself so why suddenly decide to go against every motivation & all the development his character had been given until that point ? The film is clearly influenced by the likes of Lock , Stock and Two Smoking Barrels ( 1998 ) with it's London East End style gangsters although nowhere near as good , there's a bit of The Matrix ( 1999 ) in here with it's CGI assisted gravity & physic defying fights & stunts & there's even a bit of romance & self discovery Pretty Woman ( 1990 ) style . I have already said it & I will say it again the only aspect of Danny the Dog that I liked were the cool fight scenes , even though Jet Li feels like a Jackie Chan imitator he knows his stuff & has some good moves . The fights are visually impressive with all sorts of slow motion , tracking camera shots & snazzy angles . The violence is of the fighting variety , there's not much actual blood or gore & not that many character's die either . There's a fair amount of bad language as well but no nudity . The supposed $45 , 000 , 000 budget sounds like a fortune , I wouldn't have said Danny the Dog had that much money spent on it having just seen it a few hours ago . I can't really see where the money went . Filmed on location here in the UK & in studios in France . The acting is OK , Morgan Freeman & Bob Hoskins both put in fine performances while Li is silent for the majority of the film which suits his acting skills ( or lack of them ) quite well . Danny the Dog is a really strange film , I just found the whole plot rather stupid & bizarre & couldn't get into it at all . The talky drama bits are crap while the fights & actions scenes are good , unfortunately you can't have one without the other . I seriously doubt I would ever want to see it again .
Not as bad as I had feared but not exactly brilliant .	El Mascarado Massacre , more commonly known under the title Wrestlemaniac , starts as six friends are driving across Mexico to get to a location to shoot a porn film . The films actor & director Alphonse ( Adam Huss ) , the cameraman Steve ( Jeremey Radin ) , some bloke called Jimbo ( Zack Bennett ) & three porn actresses Daisy ( Catherine Wreford ) , Dallas ( Leyla Miliani ) & Debbie ( Margaret Scarborough ) ( yeah yeah make up your own ' Debbie does Dallas ' porn jokes . . . ) are forced to stop at a ghost town called La Sangre de Dios , or The Blood of Christ after their van breaks down . Since Steve is a geek he knows that La Sangre de Dios is a town of legend , a town where El Mascarado ( Rey Misterio Jr . ) the most fearsome , brutal & notorious Mexican wrestler is thought to reside . The six filmmakers quickly realise that the legends are true & that El Mascarado doesn't like visitors , in fact he likes to wrestle them into submission & then rip their faces off . . . Originally worked on under the title The Mexican Porn Massacre which was at some point retitled to El Mascarado Massacre before some too clever for his own good marketing executive got hold of it & changed the title for a third time to the wonderful pun Wrestlemaniac , give that guy who thought it up a banana ! Edited , co-executive produced , written & directed by Jesse Baget this is your average teen slasher flick but one also to say it's a particularly silly teen slasher . The basic idea behind El Mascarado Massacre is that back in the 60's some scientists created the ultimate wrestler so Mexico could win the Olympics from the body parts of other wrestlers but the experiment went wrong & the thing turned into an unstoppable killer whose only weakness is that he has to abide by the rules of Mexican wrestling when killing his victims ! If he was created in the 60's he'd be in his 70's at least now , what did he eat in that ghost town for all those years ? To be as big & beefy as that requires a lot of food . Why was there still electricity in the town ? What did Mascarado do there exactly for all that time ? Didn't he like get bored & want to move on ? A totally deserted ghost town probably isn't the most exciting place in the world to be stuck for 40 odd years on your lonesome is it ? Also where did Mascarado learn to drive exactly ? If you can overlook the silliness of the central concept then to be fair to it El Mascardo Massacre isn't the worst slasher out there , at a little over 80 minutes at least it's short , there's one or two pretty gory moments , some of the dialogue is quite punchy while porn director & super stud Alphonse is around & it moves along at a good pace . It does end rather abruptly though , just as the film gets down to the last surviving teen & I expected a long drawn out stalk n'slash sequence of cat & mouse between her & Mascarado it suddenly finishes . Short & to the point even if it is rather silly . Director Baget does a reasonable job & the film actually looks like it was made by professionals , by people who actually knew what they were doing which is not always the case with low budget shot on a camcorder & edited on a home PC horror these days . The gore & violence is odd , the first two murders happen off screen & we don't see a single drop of the red stuff but then we get a long scene where Mascarado beats a guy up , smashes his face on some stone work making his teeth fall out & then rip his face off . The rest of the film is also mixed as there are some graphic gore scenes while at other times it feels like the makers are going out of their way not to show you anything . There's a couple of gory impalement's , a wall full of ripped off faces , some more graphic face ripping & some more wrestling type fights . If you are interested keep watching as the end credits roll since there's some on the set outtake footage of star Jeremey Radin singing some songs to the crew about the films story that they seem to find very funny even though they aren't . With a supposed budget of about $850 , 000 El Mascarado Massacre was actually lower budget than I thought , considering this came in at less than a million it's surprisingly well made with good production values . Although set in Mexico it was apparently shot in California . The acting is pretty good for a film of this type , Adam Huss certainly puts in a spirited performance as the sex mad porn director while Rey Misterio Sr . is a real Mexican wrestler & has won all sorts of titles & makes his feature film debut here . El Mascarado Massacre turned out much , much better than I had anticipated , it still ain't no masterpiece by any stretch of the imagination but it passes the time harmlessly enough & at least it's short . Silly but fun teen slasher flick with better productions values than usual .
Imagine if you can what it is like to be a woman imprisoned in the body of a man .	Let Me Die A Woman opens with a post-op transsexual called Leslie putting make up and nail polish on , thus confirming that he / she is indeed a woman . Then we are introduced to , and I quote " our guide through this strange new world is Dr . Leo Wollman M . D . , P . H . D . , Doctor , Surgeon , psychologist , minister , medical writer . A man uniquely qualified to help us understand this phenomenon . " This guy appears to be a real Doctor but gives one of the most unenthusiastic , dry and flat performance in front of the camera I've ever witnessed , check his eyes out as they dart all over the place almost as if he is reading cue cards and then looking back at the camera again . I'm not 100 % sure but he looks and sounds dubbed throughout as well . Dr . Wollman is an ever present throughout the entire film . He discusses all things transsexual ! We , the viewer that is , are also treated to various dramatic reconstructions . The first one we are shown is a ' woman ' walking through Central Park in New York ( that path looks familiar ! ) . He / she picks up a bloke off a bench and they both go back to her / his apartment . Once there they have sex . As the man leaves the pre-op transsexual turns around and even though he / she has the upper body appearance of a woman , face and breasts , he / she has a dick . He / she then takes a long shower which we , the lucky viewer , get to watch for a couple of minutes as he / she soaps themselves up and washing it off . You know the sort of shower scene I'm talking about , the sort that focuses on the genitals in a totally exploitative way . There are more reconstructions , Dr . Wollman says that a post op transsexual formerly known as Ronald , now Rhonda was " extremely impatient to try out her new vagina " and had sex too soon after his / her operation and his / her vagina started to bleed , the man who just had sex with him / her just laughs and walks out as he thinks he / she was a virgin ! A sequence where a man in denial hangs himself and an alarming scene where a desperate guy tries to do the job himself by taking a hammer and chisel to his penis , ouch ! Dr . Wollman pops up every so often to give his opinion and some dry medical facts . But not wanting to be upstaged Dr . Wollman does appear in two of the films more memorable sequences . The first is when he talks about various different dildo's ! As Dr . Wollman picks each one up and talks about it he tries to make out their for purely medical reasons , yeah right ! This part is supposed to inform us about the facts of how transsexual's keep their newly created vagina's dilated and of course how some even like to pleasure themselves ! Dr . Wollman picks up the ' Dildo gun ' , which is basically a water pistol with a dildo on the end . Dr . Wollman explains that the gun is filled with " warm soapy water " and is for transsexual's who want to experience " hot fluid emission's into the vagina " ! The other memorable bit with Dr . Wollman is footage of the operation itself . Any males may want to look away for a few minutes during this section as a surgeon gets to work and takes his scalpel to some guys penis , ouch . Although this surgery scene is actually very short and in total is probably less than three minutes long . There is also a part when Dr . Wollman indicates the direction of the vaginal passageway by inserting his lubricated finger into it ! No doubt the volunteer ' Debbie ' was pleased to assist Dr . Wollman . . . . . . . . . . At this point Dr . Wollman also explains that ' Debbie's ' hairy bum is normal . Finally after just over 70 odd minutes of this sort of thing Let Me Die A Woman ends and that's about it . Directed by Doris Wishman this is part exploitation and part documentary . I'm not sure which Wishman was concentrating on the most , in the end it's probably between smutty sleaze and hard medical facts & interviews with those involved . I'm not sure that I really learnt anything from this film about transsexual's or their feelings that I couldn't guess . The actors in this film are also very unattractive and in one sex scene the guy has the hairiest bum I've ever seen ! There is also a sequence where Dr . Wollman holds a discussion with various transsexual's , these are some of the ugliest people I've ever seen and their dress sense is also horrendous , one guy / gal wears what looks like a bright multi-coloured tea cosy on his / her head ! It's very poorly filmed and that too distracts from what is in reality a weighty issue for some . The film either comes across as cheap and smutty or dry and boring . At the end of the day I'm not too sure what to make of it , it certainly kept me watching right through to the end but I not sure I would call Let Me Die A Woman entertaining . I will sit on the fence a little bit and give it a , an incredibly curious film that I don't quite know what to make of .
Not too bad but not exactly great either , an OK time waster .	The Kiss starts with a caption that informs us that we are in the ' Belgian Congo 1963 ' at a train station . A young girl named Felice Dunbar ( Priscilla Mouzakiotis ) is being sent away by her Father ( Philip Pretten ) with her Aunt Irene ( Celine Lomez ) while her sister Hilary ( Talya Rubin ) stays behind with him . On the journey Irene shows Felice an ancient tribal statue of some sort , not long after Irene's rotted corpse is found . . . The Kiss then informs us that it's ' 25 Years Later Albany New York ' . Hilary ( Pamela Collyer ) is now married to Jack Halloran ( Nicholas Kilbertus ) & together they have & beautiful teenage daughter named Amy ( Meredith Salenger ) . One day out of the blue Hilary receives a phone call from her sister Felice ( Joanna Pacula ) & they both arrange to meet , however on the way Hilary is killed in an accident . It's now ' 5 Months Later ' & while visiting Hilary's grave Amy & her Father meet Felice , after they find out who she is Jack invites her to stay at their house . Amy starts to distrust & dislike Felice as one of her friends named Heather ( Sabrina Boudot ) dies in another bizarre accident & Felice seduces Jack . Amy's suspicions grow when she discovers a strange statue & Heather's sunglasses in Felice's room . More accidents happen & Felice becomes weirder & weirder until all is revealed when Amy realises she is about to become heir to a horrifying family secret & she has to fight for her life against The Kiss . . . Co-produced & directed by Pen Densham I thought The Kiss was a mildly entertaining horror film but nothing that was particularly special in any way shape or form . The script by Tom Ropelewski & Stephen Volk is reasonably well paced , it has one or two slightly slow points but it's not too bad . The script doesn't really try to explain what's going on that much , no explanation for the origins of the statue , the eventual creature or the psycho cat . The Kiss also suffers from the usual silliness one associates with the horror genre , the scene with the propane tank at the end is unrealistic to say the least & this daftness affects The Kiss at times because the film seems to be taking itself quite seriously . There is some gore in it , a burnt hand , a rotten corpse , death by escalator , scissors stuck in someones neck & a couple of nasty car accidents including one with a juicy severed leg . I did like the special effects sequence when Amy is in science class at school & the anatomy dummy comes to life with it's exposed beating heart & lungs , cool eh ? The special effects are OK , except that is the killer psycho cat which looks very fake & somewhat silly throughout I'm afraid . The fine looking Pacula provides the nudity . The acting in The Kiss is adequate by horror film standards although I thought Pacula as the main villain should have had a bit more of an on screen presence . The Kiss is quite well made , nothing stands out as being technically brilliant but nothing stands out as being overly bad either . Generally speaking Densham films The Kiss in a rather bland & uninteresting way which isn't a great surprise I suppose . Overall I thought The Kiss was an OK way to pass an hour & a half but I'll have probably forgotten all about it by the middle of next week , just about worth watching but don't expect a masterpiece .
Average supernatural / religious thriller .	The Visitation is set in a small American town where a recent spate of God like miracles have cured a crippled man , someones eyesight , healed physical scars & gave the whole town renewed hope . A young man named Brandon Nichols ( Edward Furlong ) admits he is the source of these miracles & the entire town falls in love with him as he cures their illnesses & ailments . Ex minister Travis Jordan ( Martin Donovan ) is very sceptical & mistrusting his wife having been murdered three years earlier , he recognises a man who was photographed at his wife's murder scene hanging around Brandon & feels the answer to his wife's unsolved murder may be near . As Travis investigates Brandon & his miracles he realises that Brandon isn't who he claims to be & that his miracles have a sinister reason behind them . . . Directed by Robby Henson one has to say that The Visitation isn't a totally terrible film but at the same time isn't exactly a great one either , I can't say I particularly liked it but I can't say i particularly hated it either . The script by Brian Godawa & Frank Peretti bases itself around the supernatural & religion which does drown out the horror elements at times , The Visitation isn't that preachy & it doesn't try to convert it's audience to devout Christians but the religious symbolism & themes are clearly there for all to see . At 100 odd minutes in length The Visitation feels a lot longer which is never a good sign , it's a fairly slow going film at times & the film doesn't have much pace . The character's are alright if a little clichéd , I mean the ex minister who has to re-find his faith to stop a great evil ? Where The Visitation really falls down is the ending , it's a bit of a mess really & things don't quite come together that well . There are many questions which remain unanswered , the twists are underwhelming & somewhat lazy , the basic plot isn't really explained & when the end credits roll it leaves you feeling a bit cheated . Director Henson does alright , like a lot of films he bleaches almost all of the colour out of certain scenes which gives it a very mute colour palette . For the majority of The Visitation actor Edward Furlong playing Brandon wears a wig which makes him look like he has long hair but at the climax he suddenly appears with a shaven head for no apparent reason . It's never mentioned in the film whether his character was wearing a wig & he just took it off ( if so why ? ) or whether during an evil ritual he just decided to get a hair cut ! Strange & it's very noticeable . There's no blood or gore , there's a bit of language & a few cheap scare moments like a dog suddenly appearing at someones window barking it's head off but overall the story is too weak to give you nightmares . According to the IMDb this had a budget of about $2 , 500 , 000 which is a hell of a lot of money , I can't really see where it all went to be honest . It looks like any other cheap straight-to-video / DVD release . Apparently filmed in Visalia in California . The acting isn't too bad at all which helps , has Edward Furlong been in a decent film after the brilliant Terminator 2 : Judgment Day ( 1991 ) ? The Visitation is an average religious themed supernatural horror film , for me I didn't like it that much but it didn't dislike it that much either . I found it all a bit average & forgettable , watch something else like Stigmata ( 1999 ) instead which is a better religious supernatural themed horror film .
" My brains rotting up . " Dull French horror film .	Les Raisins de la Mort , or The Grapes of Death as it's more commonly known to English speaking audiences , starts on a French vineyard called Roubles . One of the workers named Kowalski complains about feeling ill . . . Elizabeth ( Marie-Georges Pascal ) & her friend Brigitte are travelling across France on a train when it stops at a station & Kowalski gets on , he appears to have some sort of disease . He kills Brigitte & attacks Elizabeth who stops the train & flees in terror into the French countryside . Elizabeth comes across a house where she ask's for help , unfortunately the occupants are also infected with the sickness & it quickly becomes apparent that the mysterious infection has spread throughout the French countryside & Elizabeth must fight off the hordes of crazed villagers & find safety . . . This French production was co-written & directed by Jean Rollin & if you don't like his style of film-making then Les Raisins de la Mort will do little to change your opinion , it certainly hasn't changed mine . The script by Rollin & Christian Meunier seems to have been heavily influenced by Goerge A . Romeros The Crazies ( 1973 ) , in fact they have much in common . It is also very slow , dull & frankly boring . It has a decent central premise that had potential but the film is just lethargic & the infected villagers themselves totally disappear for the final twenty odd minutes & they are just really slow . The story , character's or situations just didn't grip or engage me & I found myself becoming more & more disinterested in what was , or in the case of Les Raisins de la Mort , what wasn't happening . Director Rollin as usual spends more time on the visual look of the film rather than the story . There is hardly any dialogue which is expected & he likes to let his images to do the talking . Les Raisins de la Mort has a nice visual look , the bleak stark French countryside with it stone house village's makes for a nice isolated location although it does become monotonous eventually . Contray to what you may have heard the gore is quite tame & the special make-up effects are generally poor as the infected villager's look like they have bits of pizza stuck on their faces . There is one gory moment when someone has their head cut off with an axe , other than that there is a poor looking slit throat , someone is stabbed with a pitchfork & a few splashes of blood , that's it . For a Rollin film the nudity is surprisingly low with just two instances . Technically the film is OK , it looks nice enough but the effects are a bit dodgy looking . I can't comment on the acting as the dialogue is spoken in French , so don't watch it if you don't like reading subtitles as I don't think an English dub version exists . Les Raisins de la Mort was disappointing as far as I'm concerned , I'd have preferred a zombie film with intestine eating & blood drinking rather than the infected villager's type thing we ended up with . I found it boring , dull & went nowhere . Even Rollins usual visual dream like surreal style seems to be absent . Average at best , not worth making any real effort to watch .
A not entirely successful mixture of Hammer horror and Martial arts .	We open to a Chinese man named Kah ( Shen Chan as Chan Shen ) hiking through the Transylvanian forests in search of Count Draculas ( John Forbes-Robertson ) Castle . He doesn't take too long to find it and proceeds into Draculas crypt . He appears to be attacked by some bats that for some reason don't have to flap their wings as they just sort of glide along , almost as if their on strings ! But then I thought to myself that a classy production like this wouldn't use rubber bats on strings , would it ? Dracula rises from his stone coffin complete with bright red lipstick , white face paint and slicked back hair , and ask's who dares disturb him . Kah says in Chinese " I am the high Priest of the 7 Golden Vampires in Szechwan , China . When the Vampires walked my temple was the centre of all power in the area " Kah then goes on to say the Vampires are sleeping and that he would like Dracula to resurrect the 7 Golden Vampires again . Even though Kah speaks in Chinese Dracula understands every word he has said and gives him the cold shoulder and says he doesn't do favours for anyone and then decides to take Kah's form and travel to China , bring the 7 Golden Vampires back , rule the area by himself and help spread vampirism throughout the world ( and he could probably do with a holiday as well ) . We are then informed we are in ' Chung King 1904 ' . Professor Van Helsing ( Peter Cushing ) is giving a lecture at a local university to a group of young Chinese men on the threat of vampirism . He tells them of a legend where in a nearby village called Ping Wei a local man managed to destroy one of the 7 Golden Vampires before the others slit his throat . The students are unimpressed with such tales . Except one , Hsi Ching ( David Chiang ) who come from the village Van Helsing spoke about . He ask's Van Helsing to go to his village with his brothers , all 6 of them too many to bother listing , and their only sister Mai Kwei ( Szu Shih as Shih Szu ) , hey it's a large family OK ? , to help them rid Ping Wei of the 7 , well 6 now , Golden Vampires . Van Helsing would like too but claims an expedition to the village would cost a lot of money . Just then , as if by luck Van Helsing's son Leyland ( Robin Stewart ) and a rich widow on a world tour named Vanessa Buren ( Julie Ege ) who he picked up in a nightclub , turn up . That's the funding problem solved as Vanessa thinks a " Vampire hunt sounds exciting " . They all set off for Ping Wei to destroy the Vampire menace , their zombie slaves and rid the land of vampirism . Directed by Roy Ward Baker this was Hammers ninth and final film to feature Dracula , and it was made after The Satanic Rites of Dracula ( 1973 ) . The script by Don Houghton tries hard to mix both vampirism and martial arts . It comes across as a little silly at time but is none the less pretty good fun , and at least it's never dull or boring . The fights are OK and contain some decent violence and gore . There's lots of zombies which look OK , the 7 Golden Vampires look silly though , they look like zombies with fangs and a golden mask that cover the top half of the faces . The flying bats look awful as do the the women who ' struggle ' to free them selves from being tied down to sacrificial altars they just move their heads a little and bend their legs a bit , come on girls put some effort into it your about to have all your blood drained by vampires for gods sake ! Acting is OK , obviously Cushing couldn't join in the Kung-Fu fighting so just sort of stands there and seems a little underused throughout the second half of the film . Technically the film is quite strong with nice music , photography , sets and editing . And why does everyone in this film speak perfect English ? Even though just about everyone is supposed to be Chinese . Sit back , don't ask too many questions and enjoy as there are a lot worse ways to spend 90 odd minutes of your time .
" With the right advertising this thing could be bigger than Hula Hoops . " Disappointing .	Little Shop of Horrors is set in a failing florist's in New York's Skid Row district . The owner Mr . Mushnik ( Vincent Gardenia ) is considering letting his two assistant's go , Seymour Krelborn ( Rick Moranis ) & ditsy blonde Audrey ( Ellen Greene ) . However a few days previous Seymour discovered a strange , new type of plant just after a total solar eclipse & decides to call it Audrey II after his secret love for Audrey & put it in the window to attract business . It succeeds & Mushnik's shop has never been so busy as he rakes in the money as people can't get enough of this strange new plant . However Audrey II begins to wilt , while trying to save Audrey II Seymour pricks his finger on a Rose thorn & the plant instantly perks up . Seymour feeds his own blood to the talking plant which starts to grow , but soon Seymour can't satisfy it's insatiable appetite with a few drops of blood . Audrey II demands huge amounts of fresh blood & with all the fame , fortune & success it has brought Seymour obliges . . . Directed by Frank Oz I was disappointed by Little Shop of Horrors , probably due to my expectations rather than it being a bad film . The script by Howard Ashman is based more on the off-Broadway musical than the Roger Corman horror film from 1960 which is where the problem lies for me . In fact during the opening credits no mention is made of Corman's film yet the musical version is . I want to say straight away that I have nothing against musicals but when I sit down to watch a film about a man-eating plant from outer space then that's what I want to see . For me the musical numbers just annoyed when I'd much rather be watching the plant & Seymour's attempts to feed it . It moves along at a fair pace & is entertaining if you know what your letting yourself in for but I'd have preferred a sci-fi horror remake of the original rather then try to turn a musical into a film . Apparently the ending was changed after bad preview audience reaction to Audrey & Seymour being eaten & the plants taking over the world , well maybe this is the horror sci-fi fan inside me but I think this ending would have been cool & the one we are left with is dull as dishwater by comparison . Director Oz does a fine job , Little Shop of Horrors has a great look & feel throughout with some catchy tunes although at times it just seemed liked the actors were singing their lines rather performing a proper song , if that makes sense . The animatronic Audrey II is stunning , it looks brilliant & has real personality which makes it even more disappointing that it's stuck in a glorified musical & doesn't get to do much until the end . With a supposed budget of about $30 , 000 , 000 Little Shop of Horrors is very well made & the special effects are brilliant just check out how realistic the movement on Audrey II's lips is for instance . The sets are wonderfully detailed & as a whole it has top-notch production values . The music , songs , & dance numbers are fine & even quite catchy so I have no complaints here , my favourites being ' Suppertime ' & ' Mean Green Mother From Outer Space ' . The acting is fine , Steve Martin , James Belushi , Bill Murray & John Candy all make an appearance in fun cameo's & Moranis is perfect as the nerdy Seymour . I have to confess that I was disappointed with Little Shop of Horrors as it turned out , musicals just aren't my thing & this has done nothing to change my opinion although I'm sure there are lots of people who love this film out there , the reason I don't like it isn't really the films fault . I so wish they remade the Corman original straight without the songs , oh well you can't have everything I suppose .
Has it's good points . . . but has it's bad ones also .	Halloween 4 : The Return of Michael Myers starts on the 30th October 1988 as homicidal maniac Michael Myers ( George P . Wilbur ) is about to be transfered from one hospital to another for reasons that are never really explained . Anyway as the ambulance speeds along Michael suddenly wakes up from his comatose state & kills his escort's . . . The next day in Haddonfield , Illinois & it's Halloween as the daughter of Laurie Strode & Michael Myers niece Jamie Lloyd ( Danielle Harris ) is getting on with her life with her foster parents & foster sister Rachel ( Ellie Cornell ) whom she plans to go trick or treating with . Meanwhile Michael Myers is in town & since his sister Laurie is dead he turns his attention to his last remaining blood relative Jamie whom he is intent on killing along with anyone else who gets in his way . Can Dr . Loomis ( Donald Pleasence ) get to Jamie before Michael & save her ? Directed by Dwight H . Little this was the fourth instalment in the Halloween series of films which now totals eight & lets not forget the proposed Halloween ( 1978 ) remake to be directed by Rob Zombie that is due for release sometime in 2007 . . . This particular entry came after the critical & financial failure of the much underrated ( in my opinion anyway ) Halloween III : Season of the Witch ( 1982 ) , the filmmakers obviously felt turning the series into another Friday the 13th ( 1980 ) franchise was the way to go , although it came before they started to add stupid supernatural elements to the plot to try & explain Michaels origins as in a couple of the subsequent sequels . It was written by Alan B . McElroy & I thought the basic story was better than the usual teen slasher film , there's slightly more to it than I expected with fairly decent character's including a child star who isn't annoying or irritating & tight story along with one or two nice scenes . However I have a huge problem with Halloween 4 : The Return of Micheal Myers & that is quite simply that not enough happens in it & is almost totally bloodless . Looking at the ' Trivia ' section for Hallowween 4 : The Return of Michael Myers it says that the film was originally considered too ' soft ' ( their description , not mine ) & that special effects man John Carl Buechler was brought in & shot the films only two gory scenes which , if true , tells you everything you need to know really , this is one seriously tame film & on that front it was a big disappointment . I mean I ain't watching this crap for a deep meaningful storyline that will change the way I look at life am I ? No , I want Michael Myers killing people & half decent story , the decent story is there but the killing isn't I'm afraid . I also want to mention the twist ending which I thought was great & very effective especially if you've seen the previous entries . Director Little shows his action film roots with a few OK car stunts & an exploding gas station , the kills are tame & while there is a decent atmosphere & a reasonable build-up there just isn't any pay-off or reward as it's just all so tame & forgettable . There is a nice style about the film with some nice lighting & use of light & shadow . Gore wise someone has a thumb stuck in their forehead , someone has a shotgun shoved through their stomach ( off screen ) & someone has their throat ripped open ( definitely one of Buechler's added effects scenes ) & a few after-the-fact dead bodies . With a healthy sounding budget of about $5 , 000 , 000 Halloween 4 : The Return of Michael Myers is well made & has nice enough production values , the acting was OK but nothing overly special & I have to mention the young Harris who does a nice job . Halloween 4 : The Return of Michael Myers has me in two minds , I liked the story & character's within more than the usual slasher clone but at the same time the fact that it's just so tame & has a very low body count makes it impossible for me to recommend . Average , there are better entries in the Halloween series & I'd personally take just about any Friday the 13th over this .
Mildly entertaining big budget horror , nothing special but not too bad either .	The Haunting starts with Eleanor Vance , Nell for short , receiving a phone call telling her to take a look at an advert in a paper . An advert which is seeking people who suffer from sleeping disorders to take part in some research conducted by Dr . David Marrow ( Liam Neeson ) as well as paying $900 a week she gets a roof over her head for free . Since Nell has just been chucked out of her flat & has no money this doesn't sound such a bad idea & gives Marrow a call . Nell is instructed to go to a huge Gothic cross between a castle & stately home ' Hill House ' which in reality is called Harlaxton Manor & is located in England , once there she meets up with another test subject named Theo ( Catherine Zeta-Jones ) , they talk about Theo's fetching thigh high boots for a bit & explore the House & eventually stumble upon the third & final volunteer , Luke Sanderson ( Owen Wilson ) . Then as if by magic Dr . Marrow himself makes an appearance along with a couple of assistants , Mary Lambetta ( Alix Koromzay ) & Todd Hackett ( Todd Field ) . That night Mary suffers an accident & is taken to the hospital by Todd & strange things begin to happen , banging at doors , whispering noises & an overall feeling of unease . The house seems to be effecting Nell more than anyone else , it seems to be trying to tell her something , something about it's dark past that Nell can perhaps put right but there are evil forces at work that don't like house-guests . . . The big , no wait sorry at $80 , 000 , 000 massive budget remake of The Haunting ( 1963 ) was co-executive produced , along with an uncredited Steven Spielberg , & directed by Jan de Bont & I actually found it a reasonably entertaining way to pass an hour & fifty odd minutes . The script credited to David Self based on the novel ' The Haunting of Hill House ' by Shirley Jackson had a re-write done on it by script doctor Michael Tolkin & maybe the reason it's a bit of a lightweight mess is because two separate writers worked on it at different times , maybe . The characters are dull & unoriginal with virtually no development at all , I didn't care about anyone except Zeta-Jones & even then only because she's a bit of a looker . . . The ghost story itself is weak , big bad ghost wants to kill everyone & generally be evil while one character has a sort of sixth sense to know what's going on while the others don't . It's all rather predictable , yawn . The Haunting is at it's best at the beginning when it relies on noises , spooky goings on & an air of mystery but unfortunately The Haunting then descends into a succession of CGI ghosts & special effects which are not scary in the slightest , from this point it's downhill all the way to the obligatory happy ending . On a positive note it moves along at a fair pace , it has a few decent sequences & it kept me entertained for it's duration . The one area where The Haunting does excel is with it's production design credited to Eugenio Zanetti which is both a wonderful asset but at the same time a problem . While the film undeniably looks sumptuous with some truly fantastic & grandiose sets which create a certain atmosphere I couldn't stop thinking that this was indeed a film I was watching , something very man-made , it all looks very fake & overblown . Technically The Haunting is top-notch & very polished throughout . There is no violence or gore besides a quick bloodless decapitation , this is family friendly horror all the way . The acting is pretty bad by all involved , Neeson looks embarrassed , Wilson is a crap actor whatever he's in & The Haunting's only saving grace is the delicious Zeta-Jones & her thigh high boots . . . The Haunting is a passable time waster of a film , there's nothing deep or meaningful here but it kept me quiet for a couple of hours . Everyone seems to hate it but I think it's just about worth a watch , definitely not the worst horror film I've seen but definitely not the best either .
" My girls aren't whores , their escort entertainers . " Not too bad considering .	Mustang Sally starts as six young guys , Josh ( Mark Parrish ) , Mike ( Erik Fellows ) , Toby ( Sonny Marler ) , Luke ( Garrison Koch ) , Seamus ( Sean McGene ) & Ryan ( Al Santos ) are sitting in the local small town diner where they overhear some bikers talking about a nearby brothel run by a woman named Mustang Sally ( Elizabeth Daily ) & decide they'd all like a piece of the action , so to speak . They jump in Josh's car & head right on over there , when they arrive they are greeted by Sally & introduced to her ' girls ' whom all pick a guy ( shouldn't it have been the other way round ? ) & then head off to the various bedrooms for some fun . Unfortunately for the boys these hookers are homicidal maniacs with revenge on their minds . . . This Canadian American co-production was co-scored , written , co-produced & directed by Iren Koster who also had a part in the film as someone called Popsie , I actually thought Mustang Sally was an OK film by which to pass 90 odd minutes . The script for the first half of the film plays like a cheap porno with these guys being introduced to some hot birds & then going off together for some fun & it's not until past this point that the horror kicks in , in fact the first half of Mustang Sally has no horror elements in it at all . Now this would have been fine but the sex scenes are really tame , there's barely any nudity , there's no variety apart from the dominatrix who gets someone to kiss her boots & ties him up & it may disappoint some in that regard , at this point I just felt a golden opportunity to be totally perverted , sleazy & exploitative had been missed . However the horror kicks in & there's some decent bloodletting & a surprisingly effective little twist at the end . It moves along at a good pace & I was never bored unlike a lot of low budget horror these day , the teenage character's weren't that annoying & it doesn't seem to take itself too seriously . Director Kastor does alright , it's not exactly the most visually stylish film you'll ever see but it's quite well shot all the same . There's nothing particularly sexy in this , nothing explicit & the film doesn't seem to want to build up any tension or shocks . The gore levels aren't high , someone is stabbed , there's a scythe in someones chest & neck , someone has their tongue cut out & people are shot although it's not that graphic , the nudity count is also surprisingly low considering the potential of the situation & the basic material . The budget was probably low as seen in the end when Mustang Sally's house blows up for no apparent reason , it is shown as a blurred reflection on the Sheriff's sunglasses as he ' talks ' us through what's just happened because he reports it over his own radio back to the police station . As a whole it's a bit cheap looking . The acting isn't great but it ain't too bad I suppose considering the material . Mustang Sally , maybe better known as Mustang Sally's Horror House , is a reasonably decent horror / wannabe porn film that doesn't really excel in either genre but is an OK watch if you've got nothing better to do .
" He killed , like , a gazillion people . " Straight-to-DVD slasher , average at best .	Heartstopper starts late one stormy night as convicted serial killer Jonathan Chambers ( James Binkley ) is executed in the electric chair , he is pronounced dead & taken to a nearby hospital to undergo an autopsy . However en-route Sheriff Berger ( Robert Englund ) runs into a suicidal teenager named Sara Wexler ( Meredith Henderson ) crouched in the middle of the road , she is put in the ambulance along with Chambers dead body & taken to the hospital . Sara is seen to & Chambers body is taken to be autopsied , however Chambers isn't dead & comes back to life . He needs to change bodies & Sara is it , he stalks the corridors of the hospital looking for her & ripping out the heart of anyone who gets in his way . . . This Canadian production was directed by Bob Keen & one has to say that Heartstopper isn't the most enjoyable was to spend 85 minutes . The script by Vlady Pildysh & Warren P . Sonoda takes itself very seriously & seems to have taken it's inspiration from Wes Craven's Shocker ( 1989 ) & House III : The Horror Show ( 1989 ) with it's evil deranged killer back from the electric chair type plot , in fact when I think about it there hasn't been an evil deranged killer back from the electric chair type horror film for quite a while which is understandable really . Here in Heartstopper no explanation is given as to why or how Jonathan Chambers survived & came back from the dead , none . Sure there's some sort of living tattoo on his arm & he has some sort of magical pendant around his neck but no concrete explanation is given at any point . Once Chambers comes back to life Heartstopper goes into standard clichéd & predictable teen slasher mode as the rest of the film is spent running around the darkest hospital in film history with Sara & some black dude trying to survive , at no point does anyone suggest they should try to phone anyone which is odd . When the lights go out why don't the generators come on ? Why is it so hard to find a way out ? Can't they just open a window & climb out or something ? One character remarks whether it's a hospital or a prison which is a very good point , I can't believe there is not one single exit or window they could have left through . The character's aren't great , the main teenage leads are annoying & Chambers as a villain is awful as he spouts some really bad dialogue which I suspect was meant to be scary & meaningful but ends up sounding terrible , he just has no on screen menace at all . Director Keen started off in the horror film biz as a special effects make-up man working on films such as Krull ( 1983 ) , Lifeforce ( 1985 ) , Highlander ( 1986 ) , Hellraiser ( 1987 ) , Waxwork ( 1988 ) , Candyman ( 1992 ) , Event Horizon ( 1997 ) & Dog Soldiers ( 2002 ) amongst others & has more recently turned his attention to directing . No offence Bob but stick to what your good at & directing isn't one of them . Heartstopper is set in probably the darkest & most underpopulated hospital in history , there's about six doctors & six patients ! There is a fair amount of gore which saves Heartstopper from being a complete dud , there are the expected ripped out hearts , someones stomach & chest are torn open , there's scalpels in eyeballs & slashed throats , there's mutilated bodies & corpses with their faces torn off & there's plenty of blood splatter too . I wouldn't say Heartstopper is scary , in fact because of the distinct lack of lighting it becomes very frustrating to watch . There's an annoying scene near the start where the doctor is about to perform the autopsy on Chambers body & ask's for the lights to be turned out ! I have never performed an autopsy myself but I would imagine being able to see & having the lights on was a basic requirement ! According to the IMDb Heartstopper had a budget of about $3 , 000 , 000 which I must say does sound quite a lot for what actually ended up on screen , there's nothing here which stands out although it is well made with good special effects . Shot in Ontario in Canada . The acting isn't great , it's alright but not great . Mr cameo himself Robert Englund makes yet another smallish appearance in a cheap horror flick , he's made a career out of it hasn't he ? Heartstopper is an OK teen slasher , it only lasts for 80 odd minutes so at least it's short & there's a fair amount of pleasing gore but a silly script that has lots of loose ends & an annoying location means this is average at best . Heartstopper isn't the worst slasher out there but it's far from the best , you can do better if you try .
" As a final gesture we'll leave puddles of love on the Peruvian marble . " Not for me . . .	Quills tells the tale of the infamous Marquis de Sade ( Geoffrey Rush ) who in late 19th Century France finds himself imprisoned in the Charenton asylum for the insane run by the liberal priest Abbe du Coulmier ( Joaquin Phoenix ) whom allows de Sade to write his filthy pornography at will , a servant girl named Madeleine LeClerc ( Kate Winslet ) then smuggles the Marquis's writings out of Charenton to be published & distributed all over France . Emperor Napoleon Bonaparte ( Ron Cook ) is more than a bit upset at this sort of filth being distributed throughout France & the fact the Marquis is considered a celebrity , Bonaparte eyes a publicity opportunity & orders the strict disciplinarian Dr . Royer Collard ( Michael Caine ) to go to Charenton & ' cure ' the Marquis . At first the Marquis humiliates Collard & his young bride Simone ( Amelia Warner ) a consequence of which his quills are taken from him , however this only makes the Marquis even more determined to continue his sauded tales & has to find other ways to write such as using red wine as ink & a chicken bone as a quill . Collard starts to dislike the Marquis who provokes him any way he can which Abbe fears will lead to Charenton being labelled by Collard a failure & closed down . . . This American , English & German co-production was directed by Philip Kaufman & isn't normally the sort of film that I would sit down to watch . There are three reasons that I did decided to watch it though , I had the opportunity to see it for free , when I checked on the IMDb it was listed as horror ( along with drama & romance ) & I don't have many comments for films that begin with ' Q ' so with these in mind I thought I'd give it a go . The script by Doug Wright was based on his own play & I don't think is a particularly accurate account of the Marquis de Sade's life , the real Marquis was a nasty piece of work & it's from his name that the word sadism ( Sade-ism ) is taken so as far as I was concerned portraying the Marquis as some lovable pornographer who you end up rooting for was a mistake , he is almost the hero of the story when surely he should have been the villain ? What do you think ? Am I wrong ? Forget about any horror as the IMDb would try to have you believe exists in Quills because there isn't any , this is solid talk for nigh on two straight hours . I mean that's not necessarily a bad thing you understand but I'm just one of those people who lose interest & patience in a film if nothing happens & it's just dialogue , I simply don't like long dull films . It's well written with good character's & a decent story but for me the subject matter didn't work that well , I became bored with it & it's just not the type of film that I enjoy watching . One more thing , if this is set in France why does everyone speak in English & there isn't a ( good ) French accent in sight ? Director Kaufman does a good job & Quills looks sumptuous throughout although a decent budget & some beautiful English locations probably helped . The film has some nicely edited & stylish moments & opens on a well shot scene of someone being decapitated . Some of the porn dialogue is actually quite funny . Surprisingly given the subject matter Quills is a tame film , there are some severed heads at the start but apart from this it's virtually bloodless , even the nudity was brief & I can't remember any female nudity although Rush takes all his clothes off . Nice . Technically Quills is great , the locations , props , costumes & the whole 19th Century French setting is lovingly recreated . The acting was pretty good , Rush plays the Marquis as some likable anti-hero , Kate Winslet does OK , the main man Michael Caine is class in anything & Joaquin Phoenix does his best playing someone who in real life was a four foot tall hunchback . . . Quills wasn't for me , it tells a story effectively enough I suppose but I couldn't get into it that much & I became bored well before the final credits started to roll . I'm sure there is an audience for a film like Quills unfortunately I don't want to be part of it . . .
" The ground is alive with crawling things " - a quality line of dialogue from Edward D . Wood Jr . ' s Bride of the Monster !	Bride of the Monster opens on a dark stormy night , the wind howls as the rain lashes down between strikes of lightening and rumbling thunder . It's Lake Marsh and two men , Mac ( Bud Osborne ) and Jake ( John Warren ) are caught unawares by the storm and find themselves stranded . They seek refuge in ' Willow ' mansion owned by mad Russian scientist Dr . Eric Vornoff ( Bela Lugosi ) . Vornoff warns the men to leave . Before they can Vornoff's idiotic servant Lobo ( Tor Johnson ) creeps up behind them and sends them running back into the swamp . There Mac and Jake are attacked by Vornoff's monstrous creation that lives there , a giant octopus . Lobo manages to retrieve one of the men and take him back to Vornoff's laboratory where Vornoff sticks a siv with three spark plugs stuck to the top on his head . Vornoff then shines a light in his face , which proves fatal . Vornoff bemoans yet another failed experiment . Captain of homicide Tom Robbins ( Harvey B . Dunn ) calls Lieutenant Dick Craig ( Tony McCoy ) into his office to discuss the disappearance of twelve men near Lake Marsh . Lt . Craig says he has nothing to go on when his fiancé who works as a journalist , Janet Lawton ( Loretta King ) walks into Robbins office . Janet feels the police aren't doing everything they can so she decides to do some investigating of her own , much to the displeasure of Lt . Craig and Captain Robbins . After some research Janet drives out to Lake Marsh but crashes her car in a violent thunder storm and is kidnapped by Lobo . Back at headquarters Captain Robbins and Lt . Craig talk to the leading authority on Prehistoric monsters , Professor Vladimir Strowski ( George Becwar ) who convinces them that the legends of a monster surrounding the swamps may be true and along with Lt . Craig and his partner Detective Marty Martin ( Don Nagel ) decides to head out to the swamps to check things out . Vornoff dresses Janet in a white bridal gown ( I don't know why ) and prepares her to undergo more of his insane experiments which he hopes will create a race of Atomic supermen to conquer the world ! Once at the swamp Lt . Craig finds Janet's abandoned car with her nowhere to be seen . Will Lt . Craig be able to solve the mystery and rescue his fiancé Janet before she becomes Vornoff's latest experiment ? Or will he end up octopus food ? Written and directed by Edwood D . Wood Jr . I thought this film was nowhere near as bad as it's reputation suggests . In fact I was impressed with it considering all the negative things I had heard . Don't misunderstand me as it certainly isn't a masterpiece by any stretch of the imagination but as a decent , fun , silly and entertaining 50's monster film I quite liked it . It moves along at a fair pace and at under 70 minutes it doesn't outstay it's welcome , but it did start to drag a little in the middle but it picked up again towards the end . The dialogue , although stupid at times , isn't as bad as I thought it was going to be . It's simple and basic but coherent . Obviously there are ' bad ' bits in the film , Vornoff's lab for instance is just a simple set with the stonework and bricks painted onto the walls to give the impression of an old Gothic dungeon . There is the odd continuity error and the special effects for the giant octopus are truly terrible , plus the octopus isn't really in it enough just a somewhat measly three times . The black and white photography by Ted Allan and William C . Thompson is simple but clean and crisp , at least you can see whats going on all the time which is all I was hoping for . Lugosi puts in a decent performance , Johnson is absolutely awful and he can hardly walk straight much less act and Dunn as Robbins is actually quite funny in a couple of scenes particularly when he questions the old woman in the records office . I really don't think this film deserves to be in the bottom 100 , I've seen many film much worse than this fairly innocent , fun and at times charming little 50's effort from Edward D . Wodd Jr . ! Difficult to recommend for casual viewers , but definitely worth a watch if you like these types of films .
Didn't think it was so bad .	I know Who Killed Me is set in a small New Salem town where the horribly mutilated body of high school teenager Jennifer Toland ( Stacy Lynn Gabel ) is found , with several other missing teens the press claim a serial killer is at large in the area . Soon after fellow high school teenager Aubrey Flemming ( Lindsay Lohan ) disappears after attending a local football game . The FBI think they have got a break in the case when around two & a half weeks later Aubrey is found badly mutilated by the side of a road although she is still alive , however after surgery when she regains consciousness she claim that she is not Aubrey at all but a stripper named Dakota Moss but can't actually prove it & says the real Aubrey Flemming is still in danger . The FBI & various psychiatrists feel Aubrey has a split personality & is delusional but Dakota insists she is not Aubrey & starts to investigate the strange set of circumstances she finds herself in . . . Directed by Chris Silverston this now infamous box-office bomb & multi Razzie Award winning horror thriller has a really , really bad reputation & has been throughly trashed by critics & audiences alike for reasons which I personally can't quite see since while I didn't love it or anything I certainly didn't hate it & think it gets a fair amount of unjust flak hurled at it . I should just add at this point that I Know Who Killed Me is not a particularly good film by any stretch of the imagination but I just don't think it's anywhere near as bad as some make it out to be . Anyway , the script by John Hammond has a few good ideas in it & I did actually like the central concept of the film although there are some rather major flaws . The plot twist's are handled quite badly & one or two end up coming across as ridiculous with some very poor scripting , the idea that Aubrey has an identical twin is fine if a bit of a stretch but for Daniel to say he paid her real mother to have one of her twins when his real daughter died so as not to upset his wife just doesn't work . Wouldn't the doctors at the hospital question where one of the woman's babies went ? Or how a baby that had just died is now healthy ? The FBI use DNA testing to see whether Dakota is Dakota or Aubrey & obviously it comes back as identical which it would , a far cheaper & reliable way to check Dakota's story would have been simple fingerprints which are different on every single person on Earth even identical twins . I found the whole twin stigmata plot twist pretty good actually but the way it is handled & introduced with a tacky narration by a chain smoking host on a website is poor . Then there's the killer , he is given absolutely no motives whatsoever , we never find out why he likes to amputate young girls limbs or why he has a room full of prosthetic legs & arms & as a very minor character to start with when it is revealed that they are the killer it has little impact . Having said that I did quite enjoy parts of this , there's some good gore , a few good ideas ( although they are quite badly handled at times ) & a reasonable twist or two . It certainly kept me watching & I was always interested in what was going on & how it was going to finish so it must have done something right I suppose . The character's are OK if underused & most of them just disappear by the time it finishes , the character of Dakota is interesting since she has her hand & leg cut off she is actually disabled & there aren't many films where the lead is disabled although the character or script doesn't exactly present her in a good light or deal with any of the issues surrounding her disability in a mature way . I also quite liked the visual style of I Know Who Killed Me , director Silverston sets out a clear & different colour scheme for when Aubrey & Dakota are on screen with a definite blue colour palette when Aubrey is about & red when it's Dakota . The film slows down a fair bit during it's middle third as the entire serial killer plot is abandoned & the film focuses on whether Dakota is really Aubrey or not which drags a bit . The ending is typical horror film fare with a young female character the only survivor having to fend off the main villain in a very dark location . There's some decent gore & a few torture scenes that look like they belong in a Saw film , the burning & cutting off of Aubrey's fingers in particular will make a few wince I would suspect . With Dakota being a stripper the makers get ample opportunity to show Lohan in a variety of skimpy outfits pole dancing but she never goes completely nude , there is also a sex scene if that sort of thing interests you . With a supposed budget of about $12 , 000 , 000 I Know Who Killed Me couldn't have been that much of a flop since twelve million really isn't that much for a major studio picture these days , it's well made with good production values & impressive special make-up effects although I thought the soundtrack was awful & some of the songs used are just terrible . The acting is below average with Lohan especially poor at times . I Know Who Killed Me was nowhere , I mean absolutely nowhere near as bad as a lot of people would have you believe & in fact I quite liked for what it was although some really poor scripting which ruin the potentially interesting twist's , some bad acting & a completely motiveless killer don't help matters .
" I'm surrounded by a bunch of panicking idiots . " Dated sci-fi adventure .	City Beneath the Sea is set in the brave new futuristic world of the 21st Century ( it was made in the 20th . . . ) where a city underneath the sea has been built , it is known as Pacifica . Admiral Michael Matthews ( Stuart Whitman ) has been recalled to take charge of Pacifica after a 6 month hiatus away because everyone blamed him for the death of a much loved & respected scientist Bill Holmes ( even though listed in the credits as played by Larry Pennell the character of Bill Holmes is dead from the start & never seen on screen in present time , he is only seen briefly on a video monitor ) , however the president wants Matthews there as the entire gold content of fort knox is going to stored in Pacifica as well as the entire world supply of H1-28 which is the most powerful power source ever created unfortunately it's also highly explosive . To add to Matthews worries it turns out that a meteorite or Planetoid is headed for a collision with Earth & will hit at Pacifica's location in seven hours . . . This made-for-TV remake of the made-for-TV City Beneath the Sea ( 1969 ) was produced & directed by infamous 60's sci-fi filmmaker Irwin Allen & is a silly piece of sci-fi nonsense that is an OK time waster . The script by John Meredyth Lucas moves along at a fair pace & is passable light hearted Saturday afternoon entertainment if your in the right frame of mind , it's a pleasant enough way to spend 90 odd minutes but you'll have completely forgotten about it by the time the day finishes . The character's are pretty clichéd , the heroic hero dude , the bad guy & a blonde woman are all one dimensional stereotypes . The whole double cross & plan to steal the gold & H1-28 is poorly handled without any suspense or tension , the bad guys are revealed straight away so there's no mystery element & a potentially decent twist ending is wasted & they barely do anything anyway . Then there's the meteorite thing , was Matthews the only person on the entire planet who thought about firing nuclear weapons into it to change it's course ? Surely the president & his scientific advisor's would have come up with the same conclusion or is it just that Matthews is the cleverest person on Earth ? Some of the logic just isn't very good & rather clunky , just about worth a watch if you don't expect too much . This is definitely an Irwin Allen film with loads of bright garish sets & hideously dated looking computer banks the size of a small shed complete with random flashing lights & computer screens that feature plenty of bad super imposition . The city of Pacifica is obviously a scale model & a not very good one , the main computer control room set was apparently re-dressed & used in Conquest of the Planet of the Apes ( 1972 ) . What was it with Allen & all those flashing random lights anyway ? They were a trademark of the films he made & I don't see their attraction to be honest . I recognised the yellow model ship thing from Allen's TV series Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea ( 1964 - 1968 ) . Also , why are the fish & marine life so big ? Huge fish that swim past the windows & the like ? Odd . Technically the film is alright , some of the sets & ' futuristic ' equipment are horribly dated these days & wouldn't even convince a 5 year old . Still that's where part of it's charm & fun comes from I suppose . The acting isn't the best even though there's some good character actor's here , Richard Basehart teams up with Allen again to play the president , Sugar Ray Robinson makes an appearance somewhere along with Whit Bissell , Joseph Cotten & Burr DeBenning all of whom are sadly no longer with us . City Beneath the Sea is an OK sci-fi adventure flick that is relatively undemanding fun in a cheesy & dated sort of way , good enough but not great . Not to be confused with the short lived British TV series City Beneath the Sea ( 1962 ) or the underwater adventure film City Beneath the Sea ( 1953 ) about two divers looking for sunken gold .
Didn't do much for me .	May tells the tale of a young woman unsurprisingly named May ( Angela Bettis ) who has no friends & is very introverted , self conscious & has been pretty much her whole life . However she does have one friend , a freaky doll made by her mum ( Merle Kennedy ) when she was a child . One day things take a turn for the better when May meets a guy named Adam ( Jeremy Sisto ) & begins a relationship with him , unfortunately May has no experience with boyfriends & scares Adam off with her freaky ways . May then turns to a friend at work named Polly ( Anna Faris ) & starts a lesbian relationship with her but Polly cheats on her which sends May over the edge & she decides if you can't find a friend make one in a rather more literal sense than one would like . . . Written & directed by Lucky McKee , who also has a small cameo in the film , May is a strange little indie film that almost defies description but the overall impression I got while watching it was that for the most part it's a dour somewhat dull drama . The script which takes itself deadly seriously plays like a drama , it tells the troubled story of May & it's watchable I suppose as there's always a sinister undercurrent bubbling under the surface & it's this that kept me watching & the possibility that it could burst into life but to be honest I never felt that it did . I found it rather predictable as well especially the apparent twist ending which is the only time it veers into complete fantasy . It's rather slow going at times & it never gripped or engaged me although it has a certain something that kept me watching , but only just . It's an OK watch , it passes the time & it has some merits but overall I thought it was average at best . Director McKee does alright , there's nothing here that really stands out & considering that May is regarded as a horror film it isn't scary & isn't that gory either . There's a slit throat , a few body parts , a needle in someone's head , scissors in someone's eye & some blood splatter but it's not that graphic . The film has nice clean cinematography but it's forgettable & there's no style or flair here . With a supposed budget of about $500 , 000 May is technically very good for a low budget film but thats the best thing you can say about it as it's a touch forgettable . The acting is very good by all involved . May is a strange film for sure , I'm not sure quite what the filmmakers were aiming for but at the end of the day it comes across as some dull drama for over an hour of it's running time & once it starts to venture into proper horror territory it's nothing special . Lots of people seem to like it but I can't say I do & therefore I would find it very difficult to recommend .
Average teen slasher .	The Retreat starts as scientist & school teacher Dr . Barren ( Peter Carey ) gives a group of his pupil's who have been helping him with his experiments unlimited use of his isolated log cabin situated on a snow covered island in Michigan . Dr . Barren gives a set of keys to Pete ( David Craze ) & Nicole ( Melissa Schuman ) who intend to take the other's up there , Pete gets there first with his lot & they are quickly killed off one-by-one by a duffel coated killer . Then Nicole gets there the following day with her group & it's not long before they discover what happened to their friends & are fighting for their lives . . . Written & directed by Matt Cantu & Lance Kawas & more commonly known under the title Silent Scream one has to say that The Retreat is average at best & a generic boring piece of crap at worst . I have seen loads of these low budget teen slashers & I can write reviews for them in my sleep , I can pretty much Copy & Paste one teen slasher comment & use it on another with a few edits . I mean there's not much to analyze or comment on in this sort of film , there's the isolated location , there's the body & nudity count , there's the question of if the kills are any good , there's the question of whether the killer is of your mysterious human variety as seen in Scream ( 1996 ) or your undead one-liner zombie killer like Freddy or Jason & then there's the most pertinent question of the lot are the reasons for everyone to keep splitting up plausible ? Well lets address those issues , the location is alright but I never felt that it was that isolated , the body count is surprisingly high with a lot of murders in the first twenty odd minutes before Nicole & her group gets there & the film almost starts again with a new fresh batch of teen victims , the nudity count is reasonable with a bit of lesbianism & some bare female breasts on show , the kills are pretty poor & rather unimaginative & there's a distinct lack of blood or gore , the killer is definitely of the human variety although their identity is very obvious & the reasons for everyone to keep splitting up are moronic & annoying . If that wasn't enough there's a terrible twist within a twist ending that makes no sense whatsoever & leaves you feeling cheated . The Retreat isn't the worst example of the genre , at least it moves along at a reasonable pace & has a decent body-count , but it's hardly a masterpiece by any stretch of the imagination & that ending really does suck . This one looks alright actually , it's quite well made with decent cinematography . I would have preferred some proper gore though , the goriest it gets is when someone is decapitated with some wire , there's a severed leg , there's a bloodless axe in the had , a bloodless axe in the back of the neck , an off screen face burning , someones neck is broken , someone is suffocated , someones eyeball is poked out in a scene that lacks any logic , someone is drowned & not a lot else worth mentioning . I wouldn't say there's anything scary here , the kills don't really have any build up & are over pretty quickly . Technically the film is fine , it appears to have decent production values but the budget obviously didn't stretch to proper special effects & the script sucked which is a fundamental problem no matter how well made a film is . Apparently filmed in Harbor Springs in Michigan . The acting is forgettable , no-one is totally awful but on the other hand no-one is particularly good . The Retreat is a pretty average & generic teens slasher for most of it's duration with a duffel coated killer who is a complete rip-off of the killer from Urban Legend ( 1998 ) & a terrible tacked on double barrelled twist ending which makes zero sense .
" That's classified ice cream man . Classified . " The best killer ice cream man film . Ever .	Ice Cream Man tells the tale of a bunch of kids in suburban America , friends Johnny Spodak ( Justin Isfeld ) , Heather Langley ( Anndi McAfee ) , Chris ' Tuna ' Cassera ( Jojo Adams ) & Small Paul ( Mikey LeBeau ) are just your average group of adolescent mates who enjoy messing around , having a laugh & buying ice cream from the ice cream man ( Clint Howard ) who drives around in his ice cream van . However Gregory is a new ice cream man & there's something not right about him , maybe it's the fact that he had huge syringe's of green goo injected into his head when he was younger as part of his ' treatment ' in Wishing Wells mental hospital ? Maybe it's the fact he kills dogs & puts them though a food crusher ? Maybe it's because he drives around with various body parts , eyeballs & combat knives in the back of his van ? Or maybe it has something to do with the disturbing fact he makes his ice cream of people he kills ? It's up to detectives Gifford ( Jan-Michael Vincent ) & Maldwyn ( LeeMajors II ) to try & discover what's happening to all the missing people . . . Produced & directed by Paul Norman as Norman Apstein I though Ice Cream Man had potential that it didn't really live up to . The script by Sven Davison & David Dobkin has an intriguing premise , one that has that juxtaposition where ice cream men are considered good & deal with children all the time & this film turns the ice cream man into an evil killer . The film definitely does't take itself seriously & at times feels like a spoof , however the film-making is uneven & the horror , comedy & spoof elements seem almost random & don't gel that well . There are a few amusing moments in it like after having killed & used a local woman for ice cream ingredients Gregory finds a female condom in the bottom of his bowl , there are one or two gross moments in it like close-ups of people eating ice cream with eyeballs in but for the most part once I got over the initial premise I found it rather dull , pedestrian & boring . If it wasn't for the ice cream man turned killer gimmick this film would have nothing going for it , nothing at all . Some of the ice cream related one liners & twisted imagery paper over the cracks but underneath this is a poor film that runs out of ideas very quickly . The character's are alright , the kids weren't as annoying as I'd expected & while the parents are given some background & story to start with they are quickly forgotten & don't feature at all in the second half of the film . Director Norman , or should that be Apstein , judging by his IMDb profile is far more used to porn & has over 100 credited to him including being responsible for the Edward Penishands ( 1991 ) series , he also seems to have appeared in the classic British horror film Village of the Damned ( 1960 ) as one of the village children , amazing eh ? The film has a reasonable level of competence & it has a few memorable scenes but there's nothing spectacular here . In case your wondering no children at all are killed in Ice Cream Man . Gore wise things are OK , there's various body parts & eyeballs , someone has a spike stuck through their chin & it exits from the top of their head & there's a few impressive decapitated heads including one in an over-sized ice cream cone . . . With a supposed budget of about $2 , 000 , 000 which is a fair amount Ice Cream Man is generally well made but nothing special , apparently according to the IMDb's ' Trivia ' section it was sponsored by a shoe company & that it has a ' extraordinary number of shots of shoes ' , I must admit I can only remember one & the low level shots of peoples feet as Tuna hides under a shelf in the supermarket . Anyway , what difference does it make . The cast here is surprisingly good , Clint Howard , Jan-Michael Vincent , Olivia Hussey , David Warner , David Naughton & Lee Major's son ! Unfortunately they aren't used that well & a potentially great cast is somewhat wasted . Ice Cream Man has an attention grabbing title & central premise that once you get past there is actually very little here to like or recommend , a valiant effort at something a bit different but it doesn't quite come off .
Somewhat routine feeling third Psycho film .	Psycho III starts about a month after the tragic events of Psycho II ( 1983 ) as Norman Bates ( Anthony Perkins ) tries to carry on with his slightly unstable life , he even hires a guy named Duane Duke ( Jeff Fahey ) to help him around the motel . Then a disillusioned nun named Maureen Coyle ( Diana Scarwid ) who has lost her faith in God drifts into the motel & hires a room , that night Maureen tries to commit suicide by slitting her wrists but while delivering fresh towels to her room Norman gets to her in time & saves her life . Meanwhile nosey journalistic reporter Tracy Venable ( Roberta Maxwell ) becomes increasingly suspicious of Norman's behaviour & with Emma Spool still missing Tracy believes Norman is up to his old ways & becomes determined to prove it . . . The second sequel to Alfred Hitchcock's original Psycho ( 1960 ) I personally think Psycho III doesn't have that much going for it , Universal allowed Norman Bates himself Anthony Perkins to direct & star in this & to be fair he isn't the problem . No , it's the lacklustre script by Charles Edward Pogue . With Psycho II writer Tom Holland turned in a really clever , intricate psycho thriller with some genuine twist's & turns that will keep most viewers guessing right up until the very end & threw in just enough 80's exploitation like gore & nudity to make it fun . However for Psycho III you can forget about any clever narrative , any surprising twist's or any real mystery . It's far too obvious who the killer is & while Psycho II mercifully realised showing Anthony Perkins in drag dressed as his mother complete with wig would just not work & would look frankly ridiculous that's precisely what happens here in Psycho III . Anthony Perkins in drag is not scary or creepy or clever & to me feels very lazy in a ' lets have Norman as the killer because it's the easiest & simplest thing to do ' sort of way . It's not a totally terrible film though , the pace is alright , there's some nice gore & nudity here , the character's are fine & some of the black humour & one liners are OK & even though it's a bit uninspired it does fit in quite well as a Psycho film . Apparently Perkins wanted to shoot Psycho III in black and white but Universal quite rightly told him to forget it . The ending was also the subject of some changing , Universal felt the ending was too weak & it needed more of a twist so Perkins was brought back in to shoot some moire footage although I am not sure where the film originally ended & what new footage was shot . It is also said that in the original script Duane Duke was the killer . There are one or two nice murders here including some stabbings & a cool slit throat . The film looks pretty good & Perkins does OK with some nice lighting , angles & shots . Production wise Psycho III looks pretty much the same as the previous two as again it's almost entirely set within the Bates Motel & it's grounds . The acting is alright , no-one really stands out for me here . Psycho III isn't as good as the previous two films but it ain't too bad when all things considered , worth a watch but it's lacking a little something overall I think .
" What I'm going to to tell you is bizarre , weird but it's the only theory that fits the facts . " Watchable enough , but dated Sci-Fi .	Doppelganger , or Journey to the Far Side of the Sun as I'm certain it's more commonly known as , starts at ' Eurosec European Space Exploration Complex Portugal ' where the boss Jason Webb ( Patrick Wymark ) reveals to the United Nations & American ambassadors that ' Sun Porbe 1 ' has discovered the existence of another planet on the far side of the sun on the exact same counter-orbit as Earth . Webb ask's the various nations to fund a manned mission to the planet to which the American representative refuses . Refuses until that is Webb reveals that his security team Lisa Hartmann ( Loni von Friedl ) & Mark Neuman ( George Sewell ) have discovered a Russian spy Dr . Hassler ( Herbert Lom ) leaking information , he soon changes his tune on the condition that an American astronaut is on the mission . Eurosec prepares for the mission , American Colonel Glenn Ross ( Roy Thinnes ) & his wife Sharon ( Lynn Loring ) arrive . Finally things are ready for take-off , Ross is joined by English astrophysicist John Kane ( Ian Hendry ) who face a three week trip to reach the newly discovered planet , coming out of their sleep they approach the planet & crash-land on it only to discover that it's Earth , or it appears to be an exact duplicate of Earth at first . . . Directed by Robert Parrish Doppelganger is an OK 60's Sci-Fi film that is a bit different if nothing else . The script by Thunderbirds ( 1964 - 1966 ) creators husband & wife Gerry & Sylvia Anderson along with Donald James uses every opportunity to stick in lots of Thunderbird inspired models of futuristic buildings , spacecraft & future technology & their about as convincing as those seen in an average Thunderbirds episode . Also the idea that an exact opposite of Earth exists is preposterous in the extreme , there are so many flaws with the idea it's untrue the biggest being why if EVERYTHING is reversed why don't the people on this new planet speak backwards , they write backwards so why not speak as well ? Because we , the viewer that is , couldn't understand them that's why . Nothing is done with the idea either , it takes over an hour of screen time to actually get to this planet & all that happens is Ross manages to convince Webb to let him go back home , yawn . Quite literary nothing else significant happens . Doppelganger is far too slow & simply not enough happened to maintain my interest between the Thunderbird model shots which look very out of place & awkward spliced into the live-action footage with the actors . The production design on Doppelganger is horribly dated , the colour schemes just check that shade of wallpaper out , the clothes with a hideous bright day-glo orange all-in-one dress & matching boots , the technology with supposedly futuristic computers that use magnetic tapes that spin around & the cars which look like their made from silver tin foil . The special effects are anything but & as a whole Doppelganger is a little bland . The acting is average & I never really cared for anyone that much . On the positive side it's different , it provides a reasonable amount of entertainment & is perfectly watchable in a silly undemanding sort of way . Doppelganger is OK but nothing spectacular , it will pass 100 odd minutes without too much trouble but won't grip or captivate many people & the whole premise is so stupid & flawed it never quite recovers , what was wrong with sending them to a planet with loads of monsters & aliens on it ? Average , don't bust a gut to see it .
" It may be the future to you . . . but it's the same old sht to me " OK Sci-Fi thriller .	The Lawnmower Man begins with a piece of text that reads ' by the turn of the millennium a technology known as VIRTUAL REALITY will be in widespread use . It will allow you to enter computer generated artificial worlds as unlimited as the imagination itself . It's creators foresee millions of positive uses - while others fear it as a new form of mind control . . . ' The film starts proper at the laboratory's of ' Virtual Space Industries ' where Dr . Lawrence Angelo ( Pierce Brosnan ) is working on something called ' Project 5 ' which involves using virtual reality in conjunction with ' neutropic drugs ' to produce some sort of intelligence enhancement in the test subject . The current subject is a chimp named Rosco 1138 who using his new found intelligence picks the lock on his cage & kills someone before he is shot . Angelo carries his work on at his home without any interference . His wife , Caroline ( Colleen Coffey ) promptly leaves him . Angelo decides to throw himself into his work & take it to the next level . Angelo notices Jobe Smith ( Jeff Fahey ) who works for Terry McKeen ( Geoffrey Lewis ) mowing lawns . Jobe isn't that bright , he has been raised & beaten by Father Francis McKeen ( Jeremy Slate ) since he was 5 , he is made fun of & his best friend is a young boy named Peter ( Austin O'Brien ) whom he reads comics & plays games with . Angelo thinks Jobe would be a perfect test subject & starts the process , it works at an astounding rate & soon Jobe has changed completely . He finds a girlfriend named Marnie Burke ( Jenny Wright ) & becomes a lot more assertive . However there are unforeseen side-effects as the process starts to unlock hidden psychic powers & Jobe starts to go nuts . At the same time Angelo's boss Sebastian Timms ( Mark Bringleson ) & the organisation who funded Angelo's experiments find out about what's been going on & have sinister plans for Jobe & the process themselves whether Angelo likes it or not . . . At this point I should say that according to the IMDb's ' Alternate Versions ' section there appears to be a Director's Cut of The Lawnmower Man & that the version I watched was definitely the shorter theatrical cut . Co-written & directed by Brett Leonard I thought The Lawnmower Man was an OK time waster but nothing special . The script by Leonard & Gimel Everett is reasonably paced & it's certainly a bit different but I'm not sure about the heavy handed warnings on the use of developing technology . What's with the sequence where a psychic controlled lawnmower chases someone around their living room , it comes over as quite silly watching it . And what does Jobe do when he discovers he has these fantastic abilities ? Somewhat predictably he decides to get revenge on people who wronged him , forget that I'd be looking for ways to make as much money as possible ! There are actually very few special effects scenes in The Lawnmower Man & I personally thought they all looked awful especially the burning man & whenever anyone was turned into little dots ( you know what I mean if you've seen it ! ) , but then I suppose I should cut it some slack since it was made way back in 1992 . The acting by Fahey as Jobe was terrible in my opinion , he starts out over exaggerating every movement to come across as simple & he didn't have much of an on screen presence when he became the villain . Brosnan is his usual laid back unshaven good-looking self , he's alright . Everyone else is adequate . It's well made throughout with nice production design & some good sets especially Angelo's lab with it's spinning gyro-sphere's . The Lawnmower Man is a perfectly reasonable way to spend 110 odd minutes but at the same time didn't exactly blow me away , worth a watch .
" For God's sake let me kill them . " The usual dull Rollin art / horror / sex / exploitation stuff .	Les Demoniaques , or Demoniacs as it is largely known under in English speaking country's , starts on a beach where a gang of four people , one known as the Captain ( John Rico ) , his right hand man LeBosco ( Willy Braque ) , Paul ( Paul Bisciglia ) & an attractive but deadly woman named Tina ( Joelle Coeur ) wave lanterns to attract ships which then get wrecked on the rocks & sink at which point they steal anything of any value , these gangs are known as ' wreckers ' . This particular night things go well & they recover some loot , suddenly they see two young women ( Lieva Lone & Patricia Hermenier ) stagger ashore , obviously survivors from the shipwreck . LeBosco & Paul rape , beat & generally abuse them while the Captain & Tina have sex together . The gang leave the women for dead & wander off into the night , the Captain ends up at the local tavern where he begins to have spooky visions of the two women while the landlady ( who happens to be psychic ) Madame Louise ( Louise Dhour ) becomes suspicious . The two women manage to make it to the apparently cursed ruins of a Church where the devil resides in a crypt protected by a guy with a long beard & a woman dressed as a clown ( Mireille Dargent ) , they release the devil who gives them the power to extract a terrible revenge on the gang of wreckers . . . This French Belgium co-production was written & directed by Jean Rollin who made quite a few of these arty surreal horror sex films of which I have not seen many , however I thought Les Demoniaques was an OK film if not exactly brilliant . The script tries to tell a decent story about supernatural revenge & it does a fair job at entertaining . The film moves along at a fair pace & never becomes too boring although the character development leaves a lot to be desired , no one in Les Demoniaques has any sort of personality beyond whether they are meant to be good or bad . The two shipwrecked women are good & are violated innocents while the wreckers are uniformly evil who never stop drinking , fighting & having sex . There is no depth or subtly here I'm afraid but then Rollin isn't renowned for his writing abilities is he ? No , Rollin is far more interested in the visual side of a film which is not a good thing . Lots of things don't make any sort of sense as he tries to mix horror , art , exploitation , sex & supernatural elements with uneven results , I was also expecting a big ' pay-off ' for the wreckers at the end which unfortunately never materialised , that alone made sitting through the thing rather unsatisfying . Director Rollin lays on the visual style with Les Demoniaques being a very textured film , I love the old wooden boats , the inside decor of the tavern , the stone work of the Church , the bright almost cartoonish costumes & the dangerous looking jagged rocks of the beach . Personally I think the arty surreal shots in Les Dominaques aren't that distracting , although the scenes in the Church with the clown , crypt keeper & some guy locked in a room who looks more gay than devil like are bizarre to say the least & destroys any credibility that the powerful & graphic opening establishes . There is far more nudity in Les Demoniaques than violence , in fact apart from some fights & a bit of blood there isn't much graphic horror here while the nudity & sex is plentiful including a couple of very graphic & exploitative sexual assaults which do nothing for me personally . You should also be aware that Les Demoniaques was filmed in French & I don't think an English language version exists so the sparse dialogue is subtitled throughout . Les Demoniaques must have been a really low budget affair , there are barely any actors in it , it has about three locations , no special effects to speak of & as a whole it could be described as minimalist . However the locations Rollin chooses are appropriate , from the Gothic Church ruins to a beach full of stranded shipwrecked boats . Obviously the photography is by far the most impressive aspect of the production although I suppose it's generally well made throughout . The acting is pretty poor from all involved especially the two shipwrecked women who are mute for the majority of the film yet still manage to be awful & irritating , oh & that Tina is a nice looking bird with or without clothes . . . Les Demoniaques is an OK Euro horror sex film from Rollin , if your a fan of his style of film-making then you'll probably love this , if not then you'll probably hate it . But what about me ? Well , I'm stuck somewhere between the two , not my favourite film by any stretch of the imagination but I found enough here to entertain on a basic level . My advice would be to think carefully before you give it a go .
" If you need anything just scream . " Hit ' n ' miss horror / comedy / spoof .	Saturday the 14th starts at the reading of a will , as the attorney ( Stacy Keach Sr . ) informs the various gathered relatives what they have inherited it turns out that married couple John ( Richard Benjamin ) & Mary ( Paula Prentiss ) have been left a house , it's contents & surrounding estate . Sweet as a nut right ? Well no because once they pitch up outside with their two children Billy ( Kevin Brando ) & Debbie ( Kari Michaelson ) & see the place they discover that it's in a somewhat ' distressed ' condition , however they think that with a nice pair of curtains in the windows it won't look as bad . As Billy explores his new home he finds a book , a book with the ominous sounding title ' The Book of Evil ' , as Billy turns each page a monster is brought to life , from the Mummy to The Creature from the Black Lagoon & it's not long before the whole house is swarming with the things . Meanwhile Mary has discovered the loft contains lots of bats so they call the exterminators who send Van Helsing ( Severn Darden ) , Van Helsing is convinced that he will encounter Count Dracula ( Jeffrey Tambor ) since he has the power to transform himself into a bat . Oh , & as luck would have it Van Helsing is a bit of an expert when it comes to monsters & The Book of Evil , but will he be able to stop the world from being overrun by evil monsters & save Mary from a Vampire curse . . . Written & directed by Howard R . Cohen I thought Saturday the 14th showed signs of life on occasion but was dead in the water on other's . The script isn't a spoof of the slasher genre as it's title that spoofs Friday the 13th ( 1980 ) would suggest but a spoofy homage to lots of classic horror films including Creature from the Black Lagoon ( 1954 ) , The Mummy ( 1932 ) , The Birds ( 1963 ) , The Little Shop of Horrors ( 1960 ) just about any Dracula film & Werewolf film The House on Haunted Hill ( 1959 ) , The Exorcist ( 1973 ) , The Omen ( 1976 ) , Halloween ( 1978 ) , The Evil Dead ( 1982 ) & a whole plethora of other's including my favourite scene set in a bathtub that makes fun out of Jaws ( 1975 ) ! Unfortunately for every sequence that works there is one that doesn't , it tries hard & it moves along at a nice pace as it tries to fill the screen with visual gags , send-ups & one liners but far too much of it just isn't funny . There are some amusing moments in it but just not enough of them . I would imagine the average horror fan would get more enjoyment from Saturday the 14th as opposed to those not interested in the genre as some of the in-jokes & references might go over their head a little . It could have been better but then again it could have been worse . Director Cohen actually does a good job of creating a nice horror film vibe & atmosphere with the old dark cobweb strewn house looking really good but the comedy obviously dilutes it somewhat , I actually sat there wishing it had been played slightly straighter as it could have made for a reasonably effective comedy horror . Despite being aimed squarely at a family audience a decapitated head keeps popping up , the monsters are a mixed bunch as some look quite good while other's look terrible . Technically the film is fine & even fairly impressive with decent production values & it's generally well made throughout . The acting was OK & no-one embarrasses themselves too much . Saturday the 14th is a watchable comedy horror spoof & sets it's stall out right from the opening animated credits as a sunglass wearing cartoon bat repeatedly keeps flying into a tree & it doesn't get much more sophisticated than that . One for the kids maybe as it is just a little bit too silly & patchy for my die hard horror film fan tastes !
Didn't do much for me .	The Enforcer is set in San Francisco & starts as a terrorist organisation that calls themselves the People's Revolutionary Strike Force break into an arms warehouse & steal a load of rock launchers & various other weapons , homicide cop Frank DiGiorgio ( John Mitchum ) catches them in the act but is shot by the gang . DiGiorgio dies in hospital the next day & his partner ' Dirty ' Harry Callahan ( Clint Eastwood ) is annoyed , very annoyed & together with his trusty Magnum sets out to bring the People's Revolutionary Strike Force down single handedly if necessary . Things get complicated though when he gets a new rookie female partner Inspector Kate Moore ( Tyne Daly ) & the People's Revolutionary Strike Force decide to kidnap the mayor ( John Crawford ) & hold him to ransom . . . Directed by James Fargo this was the third entry in the popular Dirty Harry series of action flicks to star Clint Eastwood as the title character & I must admit The Enforcer didn't do a great deal for me . The fairly routine script by Stirling Silliphant & Dean Riesner which was apparently originally called ' Moving Target ' takes itself pretty seriously & just isn't that good I'm afraid , it's well short on action & set-pieces , the story is dull & turns out to be nothing more than a simple kidnapping & as a whole it never got me going . The bad guy's are also underused here , they barely feature at all & after the first few minutes they completely disappear until near the end , the main bad guy Bobby Maxwell has to be one of the weakest on screen baddies ever , he doesn't get any decent lines , he doesn't get much of an opportunity to be evil & he puts up virtually no resistance at the end as Harry blows him away . The one aspect of the film I did like was Harry's partner , I did think The Enforcer was going to turn into a mismatched cop buddy buddy type flick as he is paired up with a woman but it doesn't quite work out that way & while there's mutual respect by the end it never falls into the established clichés . In a way The Enforcer could be described as the very first mismatched partner action flick but it doesn't follow the same path many other's would take after 48 Hrs . ( 1982 ) which is more suited to the accolade . Director Fargo does alright but the film is pretty bland , a bit lifeless & the action scenes are low key to say the least . There's no car chases , very few shot outs , one fight & little in the way of anything spectacular or particularly memorable including a rushed ending . The Enforcer has a somewhat sedate pace & I just found myself losing interest at various points , the whole film just feels lacklustre & like no-one had any enthusiasm apart from Tyne Daly who is pretty good in this a full 6 years before her stint as New York cop Lacey in Cagney & Lacey ( 1982 - 1988 ) . Technically the film is alright , there's nothing here that stands out as being particularly good or bad although I really hated some of the 70's style jazz music that played in the background especially during the scene when Harry chases the black dude . Actually shot in San Francisco & on Alcatraz this definitely has a somewhat gritty 70's feel to it . The acting is OK but nothing special . The Enforcer is an average 70's cop thriller , it doesn't really have enough action for modern audiences tastes & the story itself isn't anything to shout about either . It's OK but nothing special . The Enforcer was the third Dirty Harry film coming after Dirty Harry ( 1971 ) & Magnum Force ( 1973 ) & was itself followed by two sequels Sudden Impact ( 1983 ) & The Dead Pool ( 1989 ) .
Average horror film .	We start with a shot of the night sky , the moon poking out from behind some clouds . The credits roll . I should mention the music credited to director Tobe Hooper and Wayne Bell , from this sequence is absolutely awful . It sounds like a bunch of five year old's are performing it . The sound of cats being strangled would be nicer . Anyway , Clara Wood ( Roberta Collins ) is working in the local whore house , owned by Miss Hattie ( Carolyn Jones ) , who has awful dress sense . When a punter named Buck ( Robert Englund ) asks for " something different " that requires her to be on her knees and bent over and becomes violent when she says no , she decides she's not cut out to be a prostitute and leaves . The maid Ruby ( Betty Cole ) takes pity on her and gives her some money so she can stay at the old and dilapidated ' Starlight Hotel ' run by a complete loon named Judd ( Neville Brand ) . After finding out Clara was a prostitute he kills her , to dispose of the body Judd chucks her body into a caged off swampy pool beside his hotel where he keeps his pet alligator . Some more guests turn up , Faye ( Marilyn Burns ) her husband Roy ( William Finley ) and their young daughter Angie ( Kyle Richards ) plus her dog snoopy . The dog gets eaten by Judd's alligator and Roy seeks revenge and plans to shoot the alligator . Judd kills Roy and tosses his body to his alligator as well . He then realizes he must silence the mother and daughter . But then Clara's dad , Harvey Wood ( Mel Ferrer ) and sister Libby ( Crystin Sinclaire ) turn up asking questions about her . Judd becomes even more insane as the hole he has dug for himself gets bigger and bigger . Directed by Tobe Hooper this was his second film after the Texas Chainsaw Massacre ( 1974 ) . It's OK , nothing special . The entire film seems shot in a studio , it gives the film a certain atmosphere and look to it . The special effects for the alligator are poor . There's not much blood or gore , some splattered blood , and a scythe through someones throat is about all you can expect . There is some nudity in there as well . The script by Alvin L . Fast , Kim Henkel and Mardi Rustam is dull and quite slow in places , we get endless scenes of Brand mumbling to himself and doing nothing in particular . There's no story either , it just goes from scene to scene with no real purpose . By the time the film finishes not much has really happened . The ending is very predictable as well . And what the hell's up with Roy ? The guys a loon , he starts to bark out loud like a dog , after his daughter had just seen her pet dog eaten alive . And the scene where he stands behind Faye and clenches his teeth and holds out his fist towards her and makes a silly noise , and then after that comes out with a bizarre rant at her for no apparent reason , while she puts a cigarette out he says " Why don't you just take that cigarette and grind it out in my eye , oh was that your eye ? Oh honey I thought it was an ashtray ! " , really strange why he would say that and then get on all four and start looking for his ' eye ' . Luckily he's not in the film for long . This film also has a load of alternate titles including ' Eaten Alive ' , ' Death Trap ' , ' Horror Hotel ' , ' Horror Hotel Massacre ' , ' Legend of the Bayou ' , ' Murder on the Bayou ' and ' Starlight Slaughter ' . Whatever it's called it's still the same average somewhat dull horror film it's always been . Maybe worth a watch , just about .
I thought it was OK but not as good as it reputation suggested .	Enter the Dragon starts as a Shalolin martial arts expert named Lee ( co-producer Bruce Lee ) is contacted by American secret service agent guy Braithwaite ( Geoffrey Weeks ) who wants him to go undercover at a martial arts tournament held by international crime-lord Han ( Kien Shih ) , Lee also learns that his younger sister committed suicide after being attacked by Han's bodyguard Oharra ( Robert Wall ) . Lee decides he can not only help rid the world of a vicious crime-lord but avenge the death of his sister , a sort of ' kill two birds with one stone ' situation which he can't refuse . Lee travels to Hong Kong & then onto Han's private island where the tournament is held & he runs his criminal empire with the intention of bringing him down . . . This Chinese American co-production was directed by Robert Clouse & is generally regarded as a classic , personally I don't think it's deserving of such an accolade but it ain't a bad film . The script by Michael Allin felt like a James Bond flick to me , a secret undercover guy sent in to stop some crime lord who owns his own private island with a secret underground base , he has interchangeable metal hands just like Joseph Wiseman in Dr . No ( 1963 ) & he also carries around & strokes a fluffy white cat just like Blofeld in the Bond films ! The main bad guy also has a few henchmen including one with a distinctive scar . I suppose the main difference is that Enter the Dragon is far more violent than any Bond film with Bruce Lee's martial arts skills defeating all on comers . In fact it gets pretty boring in the sense that Lee literally kicks & punches everyone out with one hit & no-one can even hit him once . It becomes a precession where you know Lee is going to knock everyone out , the only interest is how he does it either with a punch , a kick or a pair of nun-chucks . I don't really like martial arts films that much & if I want a spy thriller I'll watch a James Bond film & to me Enter the Dragon is some strange mixture of the two which provides decent entertainment & is quite fun but ultimately didn't do much for me . Also how did anyone know that Lee's sister had committed suicide ? The only other person in the room was Han's bodyguard Oharra & since Lee's sister killed herself how did anyone else find out ? The guy who told Lee was knocked out earlier on by Oharra , answers on a postcard please . . . Director Clouse does alright but it's Bruce Lee who is credited with the fight direction & choreography , the fights look good & are pretty violent & if your a fan of Lee then you will love this . The climax set in a room of mirrors , according to the IMDb over 8 , 000 mirrors were used , is quite a disorientating & imaginative sequence . Enter the Dragon was one of only two American films Bruce Lee appeared in which used his real voice , sadly Lee died in Hong Kong three weeks before the films premiere . The film was shot without sound & all dialogue & sound effects were added in post production , it's very noticeable as well . For all you foot fetishists there is a trampling scene of a barefoot woman standing & walking on a mans back . With a supposed budget of about $850 , 000 this didn't have a huge budget by any stretch of the imagination , it's reasonably well made although the fact it's dubbed throughout is painfully obvious . The acting is OK but I find it hard to take actor John Saxon as a martial arts expert seriously . Enter the Dragon is an OK film , it passes 100 odd minutes painlessly enough . I didn't think it was as good as it's lofty reputation suggested but I liked it all the same . I guess I'm just not a fan of very one sided martial arts fights , there's just not enough vulnerability for Lee's character . Good but not brilliant .
" High priest of putridity . " An absolute mess of a film .	Nosferatu a Venezia , or Vampire in Venice as it's more commonly known as to English speaking audiences , starts with the arrival of Professor Paris Catalano ( Christopher Plummer ) in the beautiful European city of Venice . Professor Catalano has dedicated his whole life to the study of Nosferatu ( do you think that pays well ? ) who disappeared in Venice during 1786 , he has received a letter from Helietta Canins ( Barbara De Rossi ) who claims that a coffin in her basement contains the body of Nosferatu ( Klaus Kinski ) . Catalano checks it out but disagrees , to try & prove her point ( I think ) Helietta organises a séance & hires a medium ( Clara Colosimo ) to try & contact Nosferatu . It turns out Calatano was right & Nosferatu isn't in Helietta's basement but the séance does raise Nosferatu from his 200 year sleep & after consulting with a gypsy ( ! ) Nosferatu heads off in search of those who summoned him . Oh , & to add to the excitement he also has a few nice boat rides down various Venice canal's . . . This Italian production was written , produced & in part directed by Augusto Caminito & is a loose sequel to Werner Herzog's Nosferatu the Vampyr ( 1979 ) although the actual connection with that film is nothing more than Kinski reprising his role as Nosferatu & even then he looks completely different in each film . The script by Caminito is a bit on the dull side , takes itself very seriously & is an absolute mess . I would imagine that the various reported production problems were the reason , nothing in the film makes any real sense & things , people , sub-plots & unnecessary flashbacks just come & go with little regard for narrative cohesion . There are a few odd flashbacks , Donald Pleasence's character Don Alvise just rambles on about God for a few scenes before he is completely dropped , why would Professor Catalano spend his entire life studying Nosferatu & when he finally finds him decides to commit suicide , what was in the coffin , why did half it's face glow red & then turn to dust & what the hell are all those gypsies & that woman's magic crystal ball all about ? The whole film feels fractured & that various different people with opposing ideas & aims worked on it . Having said that it's watchable & just about strange enough to maintain ones interest plus the ironic ending where Nosferatu who is tired of eternal life & wants to die is hunted by some Vampire hunters who actually kill Helietta instead & since Nosferatu needs the unconditional love of a virgin to die the Vampire hunters have in fact achieved the opposite of what they wanted to do . Right , now lets get this straight shall we . Apparently producer Caminito hired Maurizio Lucidi as director & he even shot a few scenes but Caminito fired him . Caminito then hired Pasquale Squitieri to write & direct , however his screenplay was apparently too expensive to shoot so he was sacked as well . Caminito then hired a third director Mario Caiano , unfortunately on his first day Kinski got into a ' violent argument ' with Caiano & he too left the director's chair . Caminito then decided to just direct the thing himself but had no experience so he was helped by his assistant Luigi Cozzi , but it doesn't end there folks because it is also reported that Kinski shot a fair amount of the film himself . The saying ' too many cooks spoil the broth ' comes to mind & I think it's a perfect phrase to describe Nosferatu a Venezia . The film is undoubtedly stylish & has some great scenes but they're lost within the mess of a story . Forget about any gore , a bit of blood & a few people fall on some spiked railings , that's it . There's some nudity as well if that's your thing . Technically the film is very good with some great costumes , sets & Venice itself makes for an unusual location . It has nice cinematography & music , it's just a shame the film had so many behind-the-camera problems . The acting was OK although am I the only one who thinks Kinski looks terrible in this ? He looks like Peter Stringfellow on a bad day ! Nosferatu a Venezia was a disappointment , if the story had been stronger this could have been a decent sequel , as it is it's a curious mess both in front of & behind-the-camera . Could have been so much more , watch Nosferatu the Vampyr again instead .
Not as bad as I had feared .	Hide and Seek starts in New York City where psychiatrist David Callaway ( Robert De Niro ) finds his wife Allison's ( Amy Irving ) dead body in their bath having cut her own wrists . Obviously traumatised David decides to take his young daughter Emily ( Dakota Fanning ) & move away from the city & so buys a house in a small town called Woodland in upstate New York , soon after they move in strange things begin to happen . Emily says she has a new imaginary friend called Charlie who she blames for the odd occurrences like drowning a cat , breaking dolls & drawing disturbing pictures . As the events turn from sinister to murderous David realises that Emily's friend Charlie may not be as imaginary as he first thought . . . Directed by John Polson this dark psychological horror thriller wasn't as bad as I was expecting but I still only think it's nothing more than average . The script by Ari Schlossberg takes itself very seriously & just about manages to maintain ones interest throughout with just enough incident & intrigue to keep you watching , however the entire film rests on the twist ending which is a straight Fight Club ( 1999 ) rip-off . To be honest I thought it was alright & may take a few viewers by surprise but it's a twist which has been done before & much , much more effectively . Also to try & keep the audience guessing there are several red herrings scattered through the opening half which actually amount to nothing & when you think about them once the twist is over don't make a whole lot of sense , the scene when the real estate agent tries to quietly deliver the keys in the middle of the night by slipping them under the door , the scene when Emily is so cold towards the other girl Amy in her room & breaks her doll & that Emily tells her dad that she first met Charlie by the cave but while she was there David was clearly talking to the Sheriff & the real estate guy so she couldn't have met him , right ? I suppose if you just ' go with it ' as it were then it passes the time & the ending is alright if unoriginal & there's nothing spectacularly wrong with it besides a slightly slow pace & a few minor script problems . Director Polson does an OK job , the film looks alright without ever being that stylish or scary . In fact I'd have liked the makers to have put more emphasis on the horror elements as I'm sure Hide and Seek would have been a better for it . There's no gore or violence apart from a bit of blood which isn't great as it could have done with some . It's amazing just how much of Hide and Seek is set in the same house , apart from a few scenes in New York City at the beginning , a few Woodland town scenes & the ending the entire film takes place in & around one house . With a supposed budget of about $30 , 000 , 000 this has high production values & is well made throughout . Despite being one of the greatest actor's of his generation Robert De Niro agreed to be in this , while it's not as bad as his other foray into horror the Christmas sized turkey that is Godsend ( 2004 ) he deserves better than this , he doesn't even put much of a performance in especially towards the end when the twist is revealed . The acting otherwise is alright but everyone except De Niro & Fanning are relegated to underdeveloped bit part character's . Hide and Seek is an OK way to pass the time if you like these sorts of dark psychological horror thrillers , unfortunately if you do like them then you will probably guess the ending a mile off & be annoyed by the little plot holes . I thought as a one off watch it's alright but I doubt I'll ever want to see it again .
I thought it was OK .	Steel and Lace starts in a Los Angeles courtroom where general all round scumbag Danny Emerson ( Michael Cerveris ) is on trial for the rape of Gaily Morton ( Clare Wren ) , the verdict is in & Emerson is acquitted due to lack of evidence & the testimony of four of Emerson's friends , Toby ( Scott Burkholder ) , Oscar ( Paul Lieber ) , Norman ( Brian Backer ) & Craig ( John J . York ) who all gave him a false alibi . Gaily is devastated , she feels let down , cheap , angry & used as Emerson walks out of court a free man . Gaily makes her way to the courthouse roof & before her brother Albert ( Bruce Davison ) can stop her she commits suicide by jumping off it . However Albert happens to be a hotshot scientist & manages to bring Gaily back to life as a part human part robot cyborg , with one aim , to gain revenge on Emerson & the men who lied in court for him . Los Angeles detective Dunn ( David Naughton ) & his artist girlfriend Alison ( Stacy Haiduk ) are on hand to try & figure out who is responsible for the ever-growing pile of dead bodies . . . Directed by Ernest D . Farino I thought Steel and Lace was an OK time-waster but nothing particularly special . The script by Joseph Dougherty & Dave Edison has a neat central premise but it fails to deliver the goods on too many occasions . For starters Emerson is nowhere near villainous enough , we never see him rape Gaily & most of the film he comes across as a slightly dishonest property developer which meant I never really got behind the cybernetic Gaily & her revenge mission as much as I would have liked , his four mates are even worse as beside lying in court for him they don't do anything else at all . I also thought it was too slow & pedestrian between the revenge segments which are few , I'd have liked a much bigger body count . I mean when you look at the plot synopsis & see that it's a film about rape , death , revenge , murder & killer cyborgs you just think that it's going to be slightly more exploitative than it actually is . Basically the rape scene is none existent & the revenge scenes aren't much to shout about either , Death Wish ( 1974 ) , I Spit On Your Grave ( 1978 ) or MS . 45 ( 1981 ) this ain't . Having said that it's still watchable , it's reasonably good fun & there are one or two amusing ( intentional ) comedic moments in it & I quite liked the ending . Director Farino doesn't do anything special & it sort of looks a bit like a made-for-TV film , it's a bit static & dull to watch . No mention of how Gaily was brought back is made , she just shows up as a killer robot which seems to skip a somewhat major plot point but I doubt anyone is going to watch Steel and Lace for it's writing or intricate plot . There are a couple of decent scenes & some nice gore , someone gets a drill through their chest which leaves a rather big hole , someone is decapitated & a cool Dawn of the Dead ( 1978 ) style scene when someone has the top of their head chopped off by the spinning blades on a helicopter . Technically the film is OK but nothing special , the special effects are actually decent . The acting was alright & there are a couple of familiar faces here . Steel and Lace is a decent time-waster , it's one of those films which I thought was fine but nothing spectacular & I'd have probably forgotten about it by the end of next week . Worth a watch for sure but don't lose any sleep if you haven't seen it already .
" I made this myself with pure hog fat . " Director Franco's dull take on the Jack the Ripper legend .	Jack the Ripper starts at the ' Pike's Hole ' a whore house in the London district of Whitechapel as one of the girls Sally Brown ( Francine Custer ) rejects the advances of a client due to his unusual request & trudges off home on her own . While walking down the narrow back streets Sally is attacked & murdered by the now notorious serial killer known as ' Jack the Ripper ' ( Klaus Kinski ) who then takes the body to his female assistant Frieda ( Nikola Weisse ) who disposes of the messy remains the next morning in the Thames . Chief Inspector Anthony Selby ( Andreas Mannkopff ) of Scotland Yard is on the case but totally baffled & clueless . His only witnesses are a blind man named John Pritchard ( Hans Gaugler ) who seems able to identify the Ripper by use of smell , an old woman named Miss Higgins ( Ursula van Wiese ) , a fisherman named Charlie ( Herbery Fux ) who has found a severed hand & a couple of whores whose friend Jeanny ( Esther Studer ) has become the latest victim of the Ripper's killing spree . Inspector Selby starts to feel the pressure & has next to nothing to go on , feeling neglected his girlfriend Cynthia ( Josephine Chaplin ) decides to help him out . Cynthia dresses up as a whore & puts herself about hoping that she will attract the attentions of Jack the Ripper . . . This Swiss German co-production was written & directed by Jesus Franco & while a lot classier than his usual output his take on Jack the Ripper isn't particularly good . The script & how Franco approaches the story is a problem for starter , the identity of Jack the Ripper is revealed within the first few minutes so there is no mystery element whatsoever which then basically turns the film into a slasher like Halloween ( 1978 ) or Friday the 13th ( 1980 ) . Franco never really develops any aspect of his script to any degree of satisfaction , the incompetent Selby comes & goes & doesn't do much , the blackmailing of the Ripper is given a few minutes & nothing more , nothing about his assistant is explained like the small matter of why she helps him , Cynthia for most of the film doesn't feature until the end where she offers herself up as bait which raises questions in itself . Why ? What if she did meet the Ripper ? No one knew what she was doing so why wouldn't he just slice her up like his other victims ? No one she knew was threatened by the Ripper so why go it alone & risk her life ? The only connection she has to the case is that her boyfriend was working on it , not good enough motivation for me I'm afraid . There are obvious glaring inaccuracies as well , this is definitely not based on any solid evidence & feels like a slasher film with Jack the Ripper as the killer , nothing more . The Swiss locations double up as Victorian London surprisingly well except for the Thames for which Franco uses a stream & as someone who lives in the UK these scenes are actually quite funny to me . The film has an end which feels rushed & as a whole the film is far too slow & frankly dull while the Ripper's motivations are barely touched upon & are lazy & unoriginal to say the least . Director Franco has gained a reputation for sleaze so it may come as a surprise that Jack the Ripper is disappointingly tame , there are three or four scenes with nudity & only one big gore scene when the Ripper stabs a woman , starts to have sex with her & slices her breast off , other than that there is a severed hand , an eyeball & a couple of stabbings . On the positive side it's very well made for a Franco film & he shows that he does have at least some basic talent behind the camera if he puts the effort in . The cinematography by Peter Baumgartner & Peter Spoerri is very good for the most part with some excellent & atmospheric location shots plus a strong sense & use of colour throughout . The sets are convincing enough & pleasantly detailed while the costumes look a little suspicious like Franco stole or hired them from a local fancy dress shop but serve the film well . The dialogue & dubbing are ridiculous & totally remove any credibility the film may have had , people just don't naturally talk like this & you have to listen to some of this stuff to believe it . Basically the story isn't great , it just didn't grip or engage me as we all know who the Ripper is from the start . It's very slow , has a low body count with just three & very little exploitation with barely any nudity or gore & just didn't do much for me overall although having said that it's fairly watchable if your desperate . Stylish & well made but nothing special , probably just about worth a watch I suppose .
Hardly the classic it's made out to be .	The Amityville Horror starts as George ( James Brolin ) & Cathy Lutz ( Margot Kidder ) decide to by a large house in Amityville on Long Island upstate New York , the fact that it was the place where multiple murders were committed is seen as unimportant . They move in along with Cathy's three young children but there's something evil in the house , something which wants to destroy the lives of the Lutz family & anyone who tries to stop it . The Lutz family quickly discover the house has a terrible past that has come back to literally haunt them . . . Directed by Stuart Rosenberg I think The Amityville Horror was average at best despite it's classic status amongst some . The script by Sandor Stern was based on the best selling novel ' The Amityville Horror : A True Story ' by Jay Anson which was a telling of the true events which supposedly happened to the real George & Cathy Lutz although it has since been proved to have been a hoax . Anyway , this is a pretty straight forward haunted house horror & a dull one at that with a script that has various ideas but doesn't know what to do with them . For instance there's a police inspector who becomes involved towards the end for no particular reason & is then totally forgotten making his scenes pointless , then there's Father Delaney who pops up every so often in another character who seems like he's there to pad the film out & not actually do anything . Then there's the plot or lack of it , the murders during the opening sequence are never explained , why the house is haunted is never explained , what that red room to hell thing is never explained & the significance why Goerge looks exactly the same as the guy who committed the previous murders is never explained or expanded upon other than another cheap throw away ' isn't this spooky ' moment . At almost two hours it goes on for far too long & provides all the haunted house genre clichés you expect like doors opening closing by themselves & blood pouring from cracks in the floor . Overall a disappointment . Director Rosenberg directs like a made-for-TV film & it looks rather bland & forgettable , there certainly isn't any style or visual flair to it . There may be one or two bit which might creep a few people out but for the most part this is pretty tame , tensionless stuff without any atmosphere . There's no gore apart from a dream sequence when George puts an axe into Cathy's head . Technically the film is fine but rather flat & uninteresting , it's well made but nothing stands out as being spectacular . The acting is alright but Brolin as George is just so unlikeable it's hard not to root for the ghosts & Rod Steiger as Father Delaney in a terrible performance overacts horribly . The Amityville Horror is a fair haunted house horror film that tells it's story reasonably enough but never really grabs you , definitely not the classic many make out . Followed by seven sequels , Amityville II : The Possession ( 1982 ) , Amityville 3-D ( 1983 ) , the made-for-TV Amityville : The Evil Escapes ( 1989 ) & then the straight-to-video The Amityville Curse ( 1990 ) , Amityville 1992 : It's About Time ( 1992 ) , Amyityville : A New Generation ( 1993 ) & finally for the time being Amityville : Dollhouse ( 1996 ) although it was remade by Hollywood itself as The Amityville Horror ( 2005 ) .
" I've got a dead Kraut dck in my face & your complaining ? " OK supernatural thriller .	Below is set during World War II in the Atlantic Ocean where the American submarine the Tiger Shark rescues three survivors from a Hospital ship that was sunk by a German U-Boat including a female doctor named Claire Page ( Olivia Williams ) . At first things seem fine & while the all male crew are excited by a female nothing serious becomes of it , the skipper of the sub Brice ( Bruce Greenwood ) says he will drop them of at their next port of call . However as the voyage home continues it becomes doubtful whether they'll ever make it that far as all manner of strange occurrences & just plain bad luck seem to be conspiring to stop them reaching safety & turning the depths of the Atlantic into a watery grave for the crew aboard . . . Co-written & directed by David Twohy who also has a small cameo at the end as the British Captain I thought Below was an OK supernatural thriller but nothing that special . The script by Twohy , Lucas Sussman & Darren Aronofsky who was apparently going to direct the film himself back in 1999 takes itself extremely seriously & mixes both war & ghost stories to average effect . The one thing I did like about Below is that everything slightly spooky that happened could have had a logical explanation so I suppose it's down to us , the audience that is , to decide whether what's going on is just coincidence & bad luck or whether it's something more sinister & ghostly . Having said that though I could see why that ambiguity could annoy & frustrate certain people so I'm not sure the open-ended narrative would suit all potential viewers . The film builds itself up quite well & while it's a bit slow going there was just about enough happening for my interest to be maintained throughout although the ending seemed a bit low-key & the big revelation at the end wasn't quite ' big enough ' for me & not that surprising . Director Twohy does a fine job , there's a good atmosphere to the film amid the cramped confines of the sub . The scares are subtle to say the least , the films most effective moment is when a crewman is looking at himself in the mirror & his reflections actions doesn't quite seem to match up with himself . There's plenty of running around in tight corridors although there's no gore apart from some charred bodies . Technically Below is fine , the sets are good while some of it was actually filmed on a real sub the USS Silversides which is apparently available for tours in Muskegon , Michigan . This sank ( sorry ) without trace at the box-office which is probably why most people have never heard of it including me until I saw it . The acting is pretty good by a largely unknown cast . Below is an alright film that tries to be clever & leaves the audience to decide what really happened & you could go either way which is fine I suppose but I'd have liked to have seen a bit more action . Just about worth a watch but don't bust a gut to do so .
Average buddy buddy mismatched cop crime comedy action thriller .	The Rookie is set in Los Angeles where auto theft squad cop Nick Pulovski ( Clint Eastwood ) & his partner Powell ( Hal Williams ) are on the trail of the biggest car thief in the state , a German guy named Strom ( Raul Julia ) . After finding Strom & his gang stealing several top end cars a shoot-out occurs & Powell is shot dead by Strom & gets away . Pulovski is given a new partner , a rookie named David Ackerman ( Charlie Sheen ) who does nothing but get in the way . Even though Pulovski is taken off the case he decides to pursue Strom & his gang in order to bring them down & avenge the murder of his partner , but when Pulovski is kidnapped by Strom & held to ransom Ackerman has to grow up quickly & get tough in order to save his new partner's life . . . Staring & directed by Clint Eastwood this comedy action thriller is a fairly routine & distinctly average film , it actually feels like another Dirty Harry flick with Eastwood running around blowing bad guy's away with a Magnum , smoking fat cigars , showing contempt for authority & his superiors & coolly uttering lots of sarcastic one-liners . The script by Scott Spiegel ( strangely better know to horror fans for his involvement in gory films such as Evil Dead II ( 1987 ) , Intruder ( 1989 ) , From Dusk Til Dawn 2 : Texas Blood Money ( 1999 ) , 2001 Maniacs ( 2005 ) & the two Hostel ( 2005 , 2007 ) films so how he ended up co-writing this I don't know ) & Boaz Yakin has all the hallmarks & clichés of a typical Hollywood buddy buddy mismatched partner comedy crime cop action thriller , there's the hardened old timer cop who plays by his own rules with a personal vendetta & the young rookie who whose ethics & methods are completely different , there's a villain who kills someone close to one of the cops & as such makes things personal , there are plenty of one-liners , plenty of shoot-outs , a car chase , some explosions & lots of fist fights as well as a police Captain who shouts a lot & gets upset by said cops unorthodox methods . It's all here , it's pretty much by the numbers all the way with a fairly predictable story & outcome . At two hours in length The Rookie is maybe twenty odd minutes too long & does outstay it's welcome , the action scenes are decent but unspectacular & it just feels very old hat & I felt like I had seen it all dozens of times before . Also since when can a cop walk into a bar , beat everyone up , smash it up , set it on fire therefore burning it down to the ground & not lose his job ? Director Eastwood does an alright job here , the action scenes save The Rookie from being a total waste of celluloid , there's a terrific car chase at the start which is a double edged sword really since it opens the film in spectacular style but the rest of the film fails to live up to it or build on it . There's some good fights & shoot-outs but the rest of the film feels like a disappointment compared to the opening , the final chase through the airport is surprisingly poor , an overweight & out of shape Raul Julia hobbles along with an ageing Clint Eastwood in pursuit & that's as exciting as it gets . Although filmed with competence there's not much style here , the car jumping out of a window as the building explodes behind it is as visually good as it gets . Technically the film is good , it's well made with big budget Hollywood production values , lots of fast expensive looking cars & noisy action scenes . The acting is a mixed bag , Eastwood is alright but he's been playing this cop on the edge role for decades , Sheen is a touch bland but does look & feel like a fresh faced rookie while Raul Julia is simply terrible ! He is supposed to be German but his accent is truly awful , he's out of shape & just puts in an awful performance . The Rookie is yet another variation on the mismatched cop crime comedy action thriller that just isn't varied enough to stand out , sure there are one or two good action set-pieces & Eastwood is decent but you can't help feeling you have seen it all before .
" I didn't tell nobody round here nothing . . . I'll be glad to tell you the same thing . " Average horror / thriller .	Pulse starts in an ordinary L . A . street which is disturbed by the antics of one of it's residents named Hank Jordan who is wrecking his house with a baseball bat , the police are called & break into Hank's house but find him dead . Young David Rockland ( Joseph Lawrence ) is flying into L . A . from Colorado to spend some time with his Father & Stepmother Bill ( Cliff De Young ) & Ellen ( Roxanne Hart ) , things go well at first but one night when David is left home alone the T . V . & other various electrical appliances seem to take a life of their own & after almost being burned alive by a pilot light David is understandably nervous . Then David hears about the stories concerning the Jordan's & what happened , David becomes convinced that there is an evil presence in his Father's house that will try to kill them , at first Bill isn't having any of it but as the mysterious ' accidents ' begin to add up he starts to change his mind . . . Written & directed by Paul Golding I thought Pulse was an average horror / thriller that never even came close to getting my pulse racing . The script doesn't seem to know what it wants to be or who it wants to appeal too & is loose to say the least , nothing is explained in any sort of detail . What the evil electrical force is or where it came from or what it's trying to do , absolutely nothing about it is revealed . I also think that Pulse will disappoint most potential viewers in the sense that as a fan of horror films which Pulse supposedly is I was expecting a widespread outbreak of electrical devices turning against their owners all across America but in actual fact the pulse never leaves the confines of one house even though it could go anywhere & it doesn't kill a single person on screen , that's right not one person is killed in Pulse which just isn't good enough as far as I'm concerned . Instead director Golding thinks his audience would rather sit through chunks of boring dialogue , stupid unexplained narrative & an annoying teenage kid as the lead , well Mr . Golding I can tell you now that most horror fans like films which are scary & contain some semblance of horror . As it is Pulse tells it's story competently enough despite it's lack of any explanations & while there's nothing spectacular about it it's an OK way to pass 90 odd minutes if you don't expect too much . Director Golding films everything without much style or visual flair but there are a few really effective scenes in which his camera goes ' into ' the electrical equipment & there are some nice close-up shots of the circuit boards & wiring as the pulse melts the solder & rearranges it for reasons I'm not sure about , these shots are easily the most memorable thing about Pulse which says it all really . Pulse isn't scary & there's not much of a horror atmosphere to it either . There are some really dumb bits at the end when David a young kid manages to stop his Father falling back by grabbing him even though his Father probably weighs three times that of David , it wouldn't work in reality would it ? Neither can I forget the scene when a circular saw manages to fire a screw at Bill & hit him in the forehead ! Forget about any proper gore , someone's hand gets cut , someone is burnt & a screw hits someone's forehead is all we get . Technically Pulse is alright , there's nothing really wrong with it . The acting is OK but again nothing special , Lawrence as the young kid gets very irritating . Pulse is an OK film , I'm sure there are people out there who will like it but for me it was too dull , it never explained itself & the decision not to kill anyone during the entire duration of the film was a bad one , a very bad one . There are better films out there .
" What fun would it be to kill you when you have no desire to live . " Dull Nazi exploitation film .	L ' Ultima Orgia del III Reich , or under it's more common Gestapo's Last Orgy & the ridiculous Caligula Reincarnated as Hitler ( there's nothing about reincarnation & Hitler never makes an appearance , talk about false advertising ! ) English titles , starts with ex Nazi prisoner Lise Cohen ( Daniela Poggi as Daniela Levy ) several years after she was freed meeting up with sadistic camp commander Cammandant Conrad von Staker ( Marc Loud ) at the abandoned ruins of the prisoner of war camp where they first met many years ago . This was no ordinary prison camp however , this was a prison camp for Jewish women who were there to be used & abused by various German officers & soldiers during the war , some of the women were killed while others were systematically raped & humiliated by the Nazi's & some were even thrown to the Doberman's by evil female Nazi Alma ( Maristella Greco ) to be torn apart . Lise was one such Jewish prisoner but her attitude was different somehow , she was not scared to die or by anything that Staker & his guards could throw at her . This made Staker unhappy & he decides to make it his personal mission to break Lise for reasons too petty to go into here . Although Staker dumps her best friend in quicklime & threatens her with killer hamsters eventually they begin to fall in love , but surely an affair between a Nazi officer & Jewish prisoner during World War II will never work out . . . This Italian produced film was co-written , produced & directed by Cesare Canevari & found some undeserved notoriety by being banned in the UK & placed on the ' Video Nasties ' list . Despite it's reputation & subject matter L ' Ultima Orgia del III Reich isn't anything to get too excited about , maybe the contents of this film were considered shocking & offencive back in the 80's but today with graphic sex & violence common place on our cinema & TV screens this film might turn out to be a bit of a disappointment for exploitation fans . The script by Canevari & Antonio Lucarella is a little slow , somewhat dull , monotonous ( it never leaves the confines of the camp ) & uneventful while it also takes itself far too seriously , there are plenty of Nazi speech's about their superiority & that these Jewish women must suffer . I quite liked the idea of a wrap around story set in the present with the bulk of the film told through flashbacks & I also liked the ending which at least showed a little thought . The character's are sparse with Lise & Straker taking centre stage for the most part with everyone else coming & going very abruptly , the kind Doctor for instance has a subplot where he befriends Lise but is then dropped a good 20 minutes before the end never to be seen or heard again just after they have had sex together . Technically L ' Ultima Orgia del III Reich is not too bad at all & is really the only thing it has going for it , the sets & production design are nice enough , the effects , music & cinematography are decent & it's better made than most other films of this type . There is far more sex & nudity than violence & gore , the version I watched appeared to have a brief hardcore masturbation shot too as well as lots of soft-core sex & rape . The gore is limited to a few blood splashes there is a silly looking shot where Lise is hung upside down & threatened with flesh-eating rats which in reality are obviously just hamsters . The acting is OK but the dubbing is , as usual , not up too much & some of the English dialogue is just plain stupid . I can't say I enjoyed L ' Ultima Orgia del III Reich that much , despite it's reputation & a few sweaty sex scenes there isn't much happening here , to give it some credit it's well made & at least tries to tell a story between the average exploitation elements even if it didn't quite succeed in entertaining me that much . If your looking for a women in prison film that delivers the exploitation goods then may I suggest you track down the Ilsa films , Ilsa , She Wolf of the SS ( 1975 ) , Ilsa , Harem Keeper of the Oil Sheiks ( 1976 ) , Ilsa , The Wicked Warden ( 1977 ) & Ilsa , The Tigress of Siberia ( 1977 ) or the similar-ish Salo , or the 120 days of Sodom ( 1976 ) instead . For the Nazi completest only .
A shining light amongst Seagal's recent straight-to-DVD tripe .	Urban Justice starts as Los Angeles cop Max Ballister ( Cory Hart ) is shot & killed in an apparent drive-by gang related shooting . Max's father & all round hard as nails ex-cop Simon ( producer Steven Seagal ) is obviously upset about his son's premature & violent demise & decides someone is going to pay . Simon rents out a dump of an apartment in a gang controlled neighbourhood & sets about beating the crap out of every lowlife , drug pusher & gang member around until he gets the information he wants . Eventually he finds out who killed his boy , he gets himself tooled up with lots of guns & sets out to kill the shooter & anyone who gets in his way . . . Known as Renegade Justice here in the UK this was photographed & directed by Don E . FauntLeRoy who again teams up with washed-up action star Seagal for the third time after the pair had previously made the equally terrible Today You Die ( 2005 ) & Mercenary for Justice ( 2006 ) , well it seems that it's third time lucky for FauntLeRoy & Seagal as I have to say I thought Urban Justice wasn't too bad an effort at all & certainly a lot better than most of the straight-to-video / DVD abominations Seagal has starred in over the past few years . The script is a fairly routine action revenge thriller , it's nowhere near as gritty as say a vigilante thriller like Death Wish ( 1974 ) or as exciting as some of Seagal's earlier bigger budget films like the two Under Siege flicks but for what it was & what I had expected I was pleasantly surprised . The plot is your basic ' one man army ' seeks justice & revenge after someone he is close to is murdered as Seagal is pitted against the drug dealers & gangs of Los Angeles who are rather stereotypically all black & carry guns . The scenes of Seagal & these gang members facing off trying to look & sound cool as they try to out swear each other are quite funny . There's plenty of fights , shoot-outs & bad language to keep one entertained & pass the time but the story is predictable & if I am honest pretty weak . In these politically correct & overly sensitive times it's interesting to note that the black character's make several racist slurs against Seagal ( calling him a ' white boy ' , etc . ) & the other Caucasian character's yet not one single racist or derogatory term towards a black character is uttered by a white one . The action is mostly confined to some rather good fights , this is Seagal of old breaking arms , kicking , punching & generally hurting the bad guy's . There's several shoot-outs too with a particularly gory one at the end . There's an attempt at a car chase but on a limited budget it doesn't look that great . I wasn't keen on some of the choices made by the makers , in particularly the use of slow motion at points that seem totally random . Apparenty Urban Justice almost got a theatrical release . With a supposed budget of about $12 , 000 , 000 this has pretty good production values & is well made . The acting is average really , Seagal mumbles his way through his part as usual & I think it's looks like he's lost some of that weight & he's more believable in this as a result . Urban Justice is not any sort of masterpiece by any stretch of the imagination & isn't even in the top five Seagal films but it did pass ninety odd minutes harmlessly enough & entertained me in the process . Much better than I had expected & the best film Seagal has made in years .
Average Sci-Fi monster film .	First Man Into Space is set in Albuquerque where the US Navy are trying to send the first man into space , that man being pilot Dan Prescott ( Bill Edwards ) . Dan pushes things too far & disobeys orders going higher than he should , while in space his spaceship is engulfed by a mysterious cloud of meteorite particles which attach themselves to the ship & Dan inside . Crashing back down to Earth in Mexico Dan has undergone a hideous transformation into a space crud encrusted monster who needs to feed on blood to survive , it's up to Dan's brother Commander Charles Prescott ( Marshall Thompson ) to hunt Dan down & try to help him . . . This English production was directed by Robert Day & feels like an attempt to cash in on the success of Hammer studios The Quatermass Xperiment ( 1955 ) in which an astronaut is sent into space comes back turned into some sort of alien monster , personally I think First Man Into Space is a little slow going & not as good as Hammer's effort . The script by John Croydon & Charles F . Vetter for some reason is set in America even though the film was financed & made in England , disappointingly even at a scant 75 minutes in length First Man Into Space felt really padded & slow moving . The first 30 odd minutes are totally forgettable with the initial exploration into space which goes alright & it's the second time Dan goes into space that he gets turned into a monster where I feel it should have been the first , I mean the makers could have hit the ground running with the monster turning up within the first 10 minutes but for some reason they padded the story out . I wouldn't call it a bad film , there's a few minutes of decent monster action & it's competent throughout but I will probably have completely forgotten about it by the end of the week . Don't be fooled by the DVD box artwork , the monster feels like a secondary sub plot for the majority of the film before it turns up at the end . The monster itself is quite good with it's deformed space mud encrusted face . There's a bit of blood but nothing too graphic . The special effects aren't too bad either , even though the spaceship looks like an ordinary US Navy jet plane the model work is alright as are the scenes set in outer space . Technically the film is OK , filmed in black and white the cinematography is satisfactory & help make the very English locations look American . There's plenty of stock footage as well just to pad things out even more . The cast are alright , look out for an appearance by Roger Delgado who would later go on to star in several Doctor Who stories from the 70's as the Master . First Man Into Space is a passable way to spend 75 minutes even though it still seems slow & padded . The monster is decent as are the effects but when all said & done it's nothing special . Although not credited as such AIP remade this in the 70's as the rather good The Incredible Melting Man ( 1977 ) which is much , much better & a lot gorier .
Disappointingly average horror that did little for me .	Wolf Creek starts in ' Broome , Western Australia 1999 ' where local lad Ben Mitchell ( Nathan Phillips ) has just brought a second-hand car in which he plans to spend three weeks in driving to Darwin with a couple of English backpacker friends Liz Hunter ( Cassandra Magrath ) & Kristy Earl ( Kestie Morassi ) , they also plan to stop & visit Wolf Creek a huge crater in the ground made by a meteorite millions of years ago that has become a tourist attraction . Once there they hike up the trail to see the crater & after looking at it for a bit the excitement becomes too much & they head back to their car , unfortunately it won't start & they are stuck in the middle of the Australian outback miles from anywhere . As they wait a truck drives up to them & a man named Mick Taylor ( John Jarratt ) offers to repair their car but the part he needs is back at his place so he gives them a tow back to where he lives . The three friends think Mick is alright & let him get on with repairing the car while they sleep . Liz wakes to discover herself tied up , she frees herself & finds Mick is in reality a murdering psychopath & is torturing Kristy . They both manage to escape but find themselves lost & miles from anywhere as Mick pursues them intent on killing them both . . . This Australian production was written , co-produced & directed by Greg McLean & personally I didn't think that much of it . The script takes itself 100 % seriously , isn't anything particularly original & is a little on the dull side . The film feels like an Australian The Texas Chainsaw Massacre ( 1974 ) coupled with the somewhat raw realistic documentary shot on a digital hand-held camera feel & look of The Blair Witch Project ( 1999 ) . In essence it's the same clichéd story as seen in Straw Dogs ( 1971 ) , Deliverance ( 1972 ) , Deranged ( 1974 ) , I Spit on Your Grave ( 1978 ) , Mother's Day ( 1980 ) , Wrong Turn ( 2003 ) or The Devil's Rejects ( 2005 ) to name but seven in which standard stereotypical backwoods inbred psychos who live outside the laws which their unfortunate victims from the civilised cities who they terrorise , rape & murder enjoy & take for granted . In the case of Wolf Creek the main villain is one of the most dull , uninteresting & unscary bad guy I've ever seen as he looks like a drunken , overweight old bloke who is given no reason or motive whatsoever to behave like he is . The film is pretty slow going for the first half in which virtually nothing happens although it picks up a bit towards the end , the character's are dull & poorly fleshed out even though they have lots of screen time & I never felt any sort of empathy for them . I think this a an easy & safe film for anyone looking for an OK horror to watch with their girlfriend but as far as I'm concerned I didn't like it that much . Director McLean does a pretty good job of creating a nice isolated atmosphere & making the Australian outback itself as much of a villain as Mick . Apparently based on true events it is true that there were a couple of cases of backpackers being murdered in the Australian outback although I'd imagine Wolf Creek as a film is pretty much 100 % fiction , even the landmark of the title in reality is spelled Wolfe Creek . McLean tries to pile on the horror & keep it relentless at the end but I thought it was quite flat & bland . The gore levels aren't that high , there are some severed fingers , a mutilated body , someone is shot & their brains splatter on a window , someone is crucified & there's a fair amount of blood splashed around but nothing too gross or graphic . With a supposed budget of about $1 , 000 , 000 Wolf Creek is well made & has nice production values & good cinematography which captures the Australian locations quite well , the special effects are also good if underused . Apparently there had been no rainfall in the area where Wolf Creek was shot for 10 years , then as soon as a film-crew arrives guess what happened . . . The acting was OK but I never really liked anyone & wanted them to die horribly . Wolf Creek was a disappointment as far as I'm concerned , it wasn't anything original , it wasn't anything special , it wasn't gory , it wasn't exciting , it has possibly the worst villain ever & the first half will probably put most people to sleep . Personally I think it's worth a watch if your desperate but nothing more .
Confusing British horror that at least tries to be different .	Incense for the Damned , or under it's more common & commercial title of Bloodsuckers , tells the story of Richard Fountain ( Patrick Mower ) who happens to be the British foreign secretary's son , he is also a brilliant Oxford don & an expert on ancient Greek Minoan rites & mythology . Tony Seymore ( Alexander Davion ) is contacted by Richard's father & told that he has become involved in weird cults in Greece while doing research for a book he is writing , both the British & Greek governments want to avoid an international scandal so Tony is sent out to Greece to bring Richard back . Tony takes Richard's best friend Bob Kirby ( Johnny Sekka ) & his girlfriend Penelope Goodrich ( Madeleine Hinde ) who are also concerned about Richard's well being , once in Athens Tony meets up with his British contact Major Derek Longbow ( Patrick Macnee ) who says that Richard is involved with a girl named Chriseis ( Imogen Hassall ) & that they need to find them , meanwhile the dead mutilated body of a girl is discovered & Richard & his cult are the prime suspects . . . This British production was directed by Robert Hartford-Davis although he was apparently unhappy with the film claiming it to be unfinished ( hard to argue with that ) & had his name removed from the credits , in fact the version I watched had a full set of opening credits but they never even listed a director which is very unusual . Anyway , the script by Julian More which takes itself extremely seriously was based upon a novel called ' Doctors Wear Scarlet ' by Simon Raven & quite frankly it's a bit of a confused mess , it's something a bit different I suppose but the narrative is poor & it's hard to keep track of what's going on or understand what the bloody thing is all about . A fair amount of Incense for the Damned is narrated & I wonder if that was put in at the last moment to try & explain things & make the film a little clearer , it wouldn't surprise me if that was the case . The basic premise is about Vampires although it's never made 100 % clear whether they were real Vampires or whether it was just in their minds , I'm sure the filmmakers wanted to make a psychological horror film which explored the Vampire myth from another angle unfortunately it doesn't really work & the notion that people who are impotent may drink the blood of other's for a sexual orgasm is just a stupid idea that's poorly executed . The film also tries to have a little dig at the establishment at the end as well just to sidetrack & confuse things even more . Having said that I found it interesting to an extent , I thought it was something different & at only 80 odd minutes it's not too long . Director Davis does a decent job , I must admit that I love the Greek locations & scenery in Incense for the Damned & they add a really cool look & feel to the film as opposed to if it was totally shot in England . There's not much in the way of scares although there is an orgy sequence at the start with a fair amount of nudity which is at odds with the rest of the film , forget about any gore though as their isn't any worth mentioning . Apparently shot in 1970 but remained unreleased until 1976 according to the IMDb ( although I find that hard to believe as the BBFC lists it was passed for theatrical release here in the UK in 1971 ) & you can definitely understand the change of titles from Incense for the Damned to the somewhat misleading but much better & more exploitative sounding Bloodsuckers . Technically the film is fine & has that indefinable sleazy 70's atmosphere , it's well made generally speaking & has a few stylish moments in it . The acting isn't the best although there's a good cast here including the always watchable Peter Cushing , Patrick Macnee & Edward Woodward in a cameo role . Incesne for the Damned is an usual film where the filmmakers probably had the ambition to do something different & meaningful but only succeeded in making a bit of an unwatchable mess . I think I'll end this review by calling Incesne for the Damed an interesting failure although it's not a film I could recommend to anyone really .
I didn't think it was as bad as most make it out to be .	Alone in the Dark starts with paranormal investigator Edward Carnby ( Christian Slater ) arriving home after finding an ancient Arkani relic , however his evil nemesis Professor Lionel Hudgens ( Matthew Walker ) orders one of his men to get the relic & kill Carnby . Carnby survives this attack & knows that he's onto something , meanwhile Hudgens is finds another piece of Arkani relic & sends it to the museum where he works where his assistant Aline Cedrac ( Tara Reid ) starts to catalogue the piece . By a complete coincidence Aline ( ? ) also happens to be Carnby's ex-girlfriend so he gets in on the act & they both discover that all these Arkani bit's ' n ' pieces are in fact parts that join together to make a key , a key that opens the gateway between light & darkness which is a bad thing because if the key was to fall into the wrong hands & the door was opened all the nasty creatures & monsters from the dark would be free to roam the earth & kill everyone . . . This Canadian , German & American co-production was executive produced & directed by Uwe Boll who , it seems , has gotten a reputation as one of the worst filmmakers around . Alone in the Dark is the first Boll film I've seen so I can't comment but based on this in my opinion I'd still say the worst genre filmmaker is a toss up between Jesus ' I have no talent ' Franco & Jim ' I have no budget ' Wynorski , hey it's just an opinion OK . . . Anyway , the script by Elan Mastai , Michael Roesch & Peter Scheerer is based on the Alone in the Dark computer games but apart from the central Carnby character & the title they apparently have zero in common & I have to say that the script is a big problem here . For a start the narrative is very poor , things just happen , there's little consequence to anyone's actions & as a whole the film feels like a collection of barely connected set-pieces . The character's are poor , Reid's archaeologist is all but redundant , Hudgen is nothing more than a convenient by-the-numbers pantomime villain who does nothing except want to open the gateway to flood the world with monsters for no apparent reason & worst of all is Carnby himself who is meant to a paranormal investigator but this aspect is criminally wasted with him doing precisely zero investigating , this could have been good if the filmmakers had structured the plot around him having to find out what's going on & being a detective , you know at first everything's all mysterious & we find out what's going on as he does . But no , all subtlety & tact goes out of the window in favour of CGI monsters , a silly plan for world domination & shoot-outs as it forgets all about the story that it tried to establish during the pre-credit text . Having said that it moves along at a fair & despite a few dull moments it kept me entertained for 90 odd minutes , I don't think I'd want to see it again though & it could have been so much more . . . Director Boll does OK , while the film has great special effects it's not scary & while watching it I got the feeling it never really tries to be . There's certainly no tension or atmosphere as it feels like some sort of hybrid of Alien ( 1979 ) with it's slimy monsters , The X-Files ( 1993 - 2002 ) with it shadowy Government agency protecting us from unseen evils . Starship Troopers ( 1997 ) with it's all out shoot ' em up action scenes with loads of soldiers running around fighting monsters & there's even a touch of The Matrix ( 1999 ) in here with it's slow motion gravity defying fight scenes plus a little of The Relic ( 997 ) as well with monsters running around museums & swat teams dropping down from skylights . According to the IMDb there's a longer gorier Director's Cut with Miles now killed on screen , I'm not sure who Miles is but I think he's the swat guy who gets shot through the head so I think I saw the uncut one although it's still not that gory , there's some mutilated bodies , an autopsy scene & a cool bit where a female soldier is lying on the ground & there's some juicy close-ups of her head which is split in half . Reid stays fully clothed throughout , sorry guys . With a supposed budget of about $20 , 000 , 000 Alone in the Dark is well made & has that Hollywood big budget polish to it , with a decent script this could have been really good . The acting isn't great , Slater & Dorff look like they don't want to be there & Reid is predictably terrible . Alone in the Dark wasn't the complete disaster that I was expecting & maybe it's that that saved it , I was expecting so little that I literally couldn't have been disappointed . It's not a great film but at the same time I don't think it's as bad as many make out , then again I did just give Killer Klowns from Outer Space ( 1988 ) a few hours earlier so some may not want to trust my taste in films . . . It's still much better than Ghoulies IV ( 1993 ) though , isn't it ?
" I'm getting sick of being called an irresponsible drunk . " Fun 50's monster film .	The Killer Shrews starts out on the open sea as a boat manned by Captain Thorne Sherman ( James Best ) & sailor Rook ( Judge Henry Dupree ) who are delivering supplies to an isolated island owned by Dr . Marlowe Craigis ( Baruch Lumet ) where along with his assistants Jerry Ferrell ( Ken Curtis ) & a biologist who specialises in genetics Dr . Radford Baines ( executive producer Gordon McLendon ) are conducting various experiments . Once ashore Sherman informs Dr . Craigis that there is a hurricane on the way & that he & Rook will ride the storm out before heading back , Dr . Craigis says that will be OK but that his daughter Ann ( Ingrid Goude ) will be travelling back with them . Later on Dr . Craigis reveals the reasoning behind some of his experiments which eventually leads to the startling revelation that the island is crawling with hundreds of giant killer shrews that have exhausted the food supply , exhausted the food supply that is except the human variety . Things become worse when the servant Mario ( Alfredo DeSoto ) is bitten by a shrew & dies almost immediately from poisoning , not only do the survivors have to contend with vicious killer shrews they have to contend with poisonous vicious killer shrews ! Directed by Ray Kellogg this is one of the better 50's monster films that I have seen although that isn't saying much on it's own , at least it's a lot better than it's terrible companion piece The Giant Gila Monster ( 1959 ) made at the same time which were originally intended to be paired together as a double bill . The script by Jay Simms moves along at a nice pace & at only 68 minutes long at least it's short & sweet . The script isn't quite as one-dimensional as other films of this type , it half-heartedly tries to preach a moral message about over population & the character's while clichéd are a bit better than than I expected with a likable hero & a good looking blonde Sweedish girl , there's the usual scientist who is interested in his experiments & nothing else , of course there's the cowardly antagonist & the disposable character's who are there to be eaten & nothing else . At least they all have at some personality & keep the film going . I also love that ending which looked like something out of The A-Team ( 1983 - 1987 ) with a race against time as our hero built a home made tank out of some oil drums , wood & a handy blow torch ! With a budget of $123 , 000 The killer Shrews technically isn't a bad film with reasonable black and white cinematography & production values , however the killer shrews themselves look pretty poor as they are obviously just dogs dressed with scraps of carpet or fur & plastic fangs , hardly scary . There are a few puppet shots as well but these don't really come across as any better . The acting is not that great but I didn't expect it to be if I'm honest . The Killer Shrews is a fun way to pass 70 odd minutes & I liked it for what it is . However , if you go into it expecting state of the art effects & with high expectations then you will be disappointed but if you are in the right frame of mind & like these 50's monster films than this is definitely worth a watch .
Short but mildly interesting retrospective documentary .	Return of the Vampyres is a 15 odd minute featurette produced by Blue Underground for their US DVD of the film Vampyres ( 1974 ) , it can also be found on the UK DVD released by Anchor Bay . It contains contributions from both of the leading ladies , Anulka Dziubinska & Marianne Morris . Both briefly talk about the things you would expect from a DVD extra such as this . Anulka says that she met Sir John Mills at a party & asked him for advice , he said take everything your offered & the very next day she was offered Vampyres which she took , gee thanks a lot John great advice ! Anulka also claims that she didn't read the script & that she was told that the film only contained ' light nudity ' . . . They talk about the Spanish director Jose Ramon Larraz who was apparently very volatile , the shoot which lasted for 3 weeks during Autumn , they discuss the nudity & violence & that the blood used in the film was pepper-mint flavoured . The documentary ends with their thoughts on the final film & what they have done since . Running at only a quarter of an hour Return of the Vampyres doesn't go into any detail worth mentioning but it's an OK watch , it features plenty of relevant clips & sound-bites to accompany the interview footage & a few black and white behind the scenes photo's . Both Anulka & Marianne have aged & it's interesting to see how they both look these days & the fact that they are both now blonde . . . You will probably have completely forgotten everything about Return of the Vampyres within a few hours of watching it . Better than nothing but hardly amazing .
OK early 80's Canadian psycho slasher , decent enough time waster .	A female T . V . journalist & womens rights campaigner Deborah Ballin ( Lee Grant ) has made an enemy , a very sick & dangerous enemy because of her outspoken views . One night , after having returned home from the studio she is attacked by an anti-women psycho killer & rapist named Colt Hawker ( Micheal Ironside ) . Colt has killed her maid Francine and chases Deborah throughout her large house , Colt manages to cut her with a knife and injure her arm when she is sent falling down a laundry chute . Deborah is rescued before Colt can kill her . Deborah is taken to County General Hospital where she is given treatment for her arm & injuries . Colt isn't finished with her yet though and disguised as a florist gains entry to the Hospital and Deborahs room . Colt pulls his flick knife out and cut a life support tube . Colt opens the curtains and sees that it isn't Deborah but an old woman named Mrs . Corrigan ( Dora Dainton ) whom Colt sits beside & takes photos of as she slowly dies in front of him . Mrs . Corrigan presses her alarm and Nurse Connie Wexler ( Deborah Kirshenbaum ) arrives . She is grabbed from behind by Colt and stabbed to death . Colt calls the elevator to leave but while waiting Nurse Sheila Munroe ( Linda Purl ) sees him , he sees her as well before making his escape . Deborah eventually finds out that a patient and Nurse were killed in her old room and becomes terrified that Colt has returned for her . Sheila tries to reassure Deborah that she is safe , but in reality neither Deborah or Sheila are safe as Colt decides to go after both . After a couple of failed attempts Colt finally manages to isolate Deborah deep inside the Hospitals underground basement of pipes and labyrinth like corridors ! One of Colt's more fortunate victims that survived , Lisa ( Lenore Zenn ) , has discovered that he is responsible for numerous deaths but will she be able to tell the police in time to save Deborah & Sheila and putting an end to Colt's reign of terror ? Co-edited & directed by Jean-Claude Lord I thought this was a decent enough slasher / thriller but nothing that really sticks in the memory . To give him some credit Lord manages to create some good sequences and decent amounts of tension throughout . The script by Brian Taggert starts out at a terrific pace with a good opening sequence but loses it's way badly in a static and dull middle before finally getting going again for the showdown between Colt and Deborah . The script tries to present Colt as a human with motives and spends time developing him , unfortunately this is fine I suppose but I'd rather see him kill people & generally being evil , which he doesn't do enough of in Visiting Hours for my liking . There is far too much padding as well , people walking around dark Hospital corridors & doing dull meaningless everyday things . Forget about any gore or violence , just a couple of stabbings and a cut open , by broken glass , arm . No nudity either . The acting is good , Ironside is great as you would expect . William Shatner makes a somewhat brief appearance considering his almost top-billing in the credits as a bit part character who doesn't really do anything particularly exciting , but as always he's fun to watch . Grant puts in a good performance but personally I didn't like either her or her character . Overall Visiting Hours is well made and the normally safe & everyday Hospital environment works well . There's nothing greatly wrong with Visiting Hours , but at the same time there is nothing outstanding either . A decent enough time waster if you can see it on T . V . for free or find a copy going cheap somewhere .
I actually quite liked it for what it was .	Psycho opens to some on screen captions that say ' Phoenix , Arizona December the eleventh 1998 two forty-three P . M . ' & cool looking shot which pans & zooms across the city & directly into a hotel room window where Marion Crane ( Anne Heche ) & her deeply in debt lover Samuel Loomis ( Viggo Mortensen , who starred in another Hitchcock remake The Perfect Murder ( 1998 ) the same year ) are talking in bed , they talk about starting a new life together but Sam needs money to clear debts . Marion arrives at work for the day & a client named Tom Cassidy ( Chad Everett ) gives her boss Mr . Lowery ( Rance Howard ) $400 , 000 in cash who in turn gives it to Marion to deposit in the bank . On her way to the bank Marion can't help but think that this $400 , 000 would solve hers & Sams problems & help them start fresh so she decides to steal the money . While on her way to tell Sam Marion buys a new car & stops off at an old motel , the ' Bates Motel ' . There she meets the owner , one Norman Bates ( Vince Vaughn ) , Marion is given room No . 1 & befriends Norman who offers her dinner . Later that night as Marion takes a shower she is stabbed to death . People in Phoenix start to miss her , Sam , her sister Lila ( Julianne Moore ) & Mr . Lowery who hires a private detective named Milton Arbogast ( William H . Macy ) to track her down & discover the truth . . . The much maligned $20 , 000 , 000 remake of Alfred Hitchcock's Psycho ( 1960 ) was co-produced & directed by Gus Van Sant & I actually quite liked it , I didn't think it was a masterpiece but it provided 100 odd minutes of entertainment & that's all I ever ask for . I should also say at this point that as of now I have never seen Hitchcock's original ( there are some of us ! ) so I simply can't compare the two . The script by Joseph Stefano based on the novel by Robert Bloch is a little slow at times but it tells an effective story & tells it in an entertaining way . I love the idea of killing of your lead actress half way through the film , most audiences just won't be expecting it . The characters are likable enough & I thought the twist ending worked well . On the negative side we don't really need a supposed shot-for-shot ( or so I've heard ) remake do we ? Psycho is also a little pedestrian at times & maybe it's a bit easy to see where it's going . It's a dialogue driven film rather than action so don't expect lots of deaths or gunfights either . Director Van Sant does a good job here even if it has the look of a bland somewhat forgettable Hollywood production at times . The production design is interesting as it apparently depicts 1998 but feels almost period at times , I'm sure this was intentional but the look of Psycho feels somewhere between ' 98 & ' 60 which I rather liked . The famous shower murder is pretty cool but don't expect buckets of blood , there is only one other murder besides this so don't expect a big body count . The acting is fine from all involved especially William H . Macy who is great at playing likable , laid-back characters isn't he ? Overall I liked Psycho , it isn't the best film I've ever seen but it's far from the worst no matter what anyone might say , especially on the IMDb where it seems almost every film has been described as ' worst film ever ' at some point . Definitely worth a watch particularly if you haven't seen the original .
Perfectly good episode if a bit forgettable .	Monsters : Parents from Space starts as Ward Ellers ( Frank Gorshin ) arrives home from work & as usual takes his frustration's out on his young foster daughter Cindy ( Mary Griffin ) who also suffers at the hand of his cruel wife June ( Peggy Cass ) . Cindy is very unhappy & wishes things were different . Then that very night an alien spaceship lands in the Ellers barn & the two aliens inside take over the Ellers bodies & are a big improvement on the real Ellers , Cindy begins to like them & their strange but kind ways although the aliens plan to swap bodies again once their damaged spaceship is repaired . An idea Cindy is not too keen on . . . Episode fourteen from season one of Monsters this originally aired in the US during February 1989 , directed by Jerry Smith this episode shares a lot of the same plot details of the previous Monsters episode Glim-Glim ( 1989 ) which also features an alien stranded on Earth , a little girl who befriends it / them but the main difference is probably that this time there's a happy ending for the girl rather than the downbeat sad ending of Glim-Glim . In fact I would say that the basic feel-good nature of Parents from Space would have suited a Disney film instead with the fantasy premise of two aliens from space saving a cute little girl from her unhappy existence . Parents from Space isn't as good an episode as Glim-Glim anyway , the writing is more predictable & the whole episode is a little dull , sure the story is quite good but it doesn't really go anywhere the ending is obvious & you can see it coming from a mile away . Having said that it's fairly amusing in a light hearted sort of way although it does sidestep the important central issue of child abuse despite introducing the delicate topic early on & is one of the more forgettable entries from this generally very good series . The monster this time around are the two aliens which look a hell of a lot better than the alien from Glim-Glim which makes me suspect that it's goofy appearance was deliberate . Anyway , the furry sharp fanged Rat like aliens here look a lot like the ones from Critters ( 1986 ) . There's a slightly gross scene in this when the alien controlled Ward eats a maggot ! Some might find that bit a distasteful & I would advise you not to be eating anything at the same time while watching that bit . The acting is alright if nothing Oscar worthy . Parents from Space is a watchable Monsters episode that passes twenty odd minutes harmlessly enough but certainly isn't up there with the best the show has to offer . Not bad but not great .
Decent enough Monsters episode featuring a monster .	Monsters : Rouse Him Not starts as painter Linda McGuire ( Laraine Newman ) is visited by a man named John Thunston ( Alex Cord ) who is writing an article about local legends & superstitions & Linda's house that she moved into six weeks ago is top of his list of hot spots . While looking for Linda's dog Hardy in the cellar they notice a large hole in the floor which was done by a workman not long previous & that a star shaped pentagram painted on the floor had been destroyed . Then soon after a large slimy monster rises from the hole in search of fresh blood . John decides to stick around & help rid Linda of her unwanted guest using his trusty silver sword . . . Episode eleven from season one of Mosters this originally aired in the US during December 1988 , directed by special make-up effect's artist Mark Shostrom this is a decent enough way to pass twenty odd minutes but there isn't much to it & it feels like a short promo reel for horror film to attract finance rather than an episodic entry in an anthology series . I mean where's the twist ? The script was based on a story by fantasy author Manly Wade Wellman & is a fairly straight forward tale about a monster that is freed from it's tomb after someone moves into a house & releases it by accident . Not that much else happens , there's some religious nonsense about Witchcraft & a silver sword made by an English Saint but the only reason anyone is watching Rouse Him Not is for the monster & it doesn't feature too often & when it does it doesn't have much to do . Rouse Him Not is alright I suppose but there are better Monsters episodes out there & the lack of any twist doesn't help . Oh , one more thing , what happened to Hardy the dog ? Everyone seemed to forget about it rather quickly & we never find out it's fate , dog's have feelings as well you know . Like usual the main point of interest in this Monsters episode is the actual monster itself which in this case is a tall slimy horned demon thing which looks quite impressive & that's where most of the budget went probably . Like most Monsters episodes there's only two sets to it's quite contained & there's only three people in it including veteran TV actor Alex Cord who I best remember from his limping , white suit , eye-patch wearing role in the cheesy TV action series Airwolf ( 1984 - 1986 ) . Rouse Him Not is a watchable enough Monsters episode but it's not one of the best & it's more of a short horror film than a anthology style short with a twist ending . Not too bad but not great , fans of the show should like it .
Average Monsters episode .	Monsters : Pool Sharks is set in some backstreet watering hole of a bar where sexy babe Natasha ( Rebecca Kyler Downs ) is playing pool , then Gabe ( Tom Mason ) walks in & they have a few games together . They are both impressive pool players & the game is very tight when the stakes are suddenly raised , it turns out that Natasha is a blood drinking Vampire who prey's on men & had previously killed Gabe's brother . Gabe is now looking for revenge & the loser of the bet will have to pay the ultimate price , their very life . . . Episode nine from season one of Monsters this originally aired in the US during December 1988 , written & directed by Alan Kingsberg I didn't think Pool Sharks was one of the better episodes but it's not too bad & it's certainly better than The Legacy ( 1988 ) from earlier on in the season . The whole concept about a man seeking revenge on a Vampire isn't anything original but this is a nice twenty odd minute take on things as it's set entirely around a pool table in a bar . There isn't much to Pool Sharks really , Natasha & Gabe play pool while sussing each other out & finally revealing their ulterior motives to each other . There's not much of a twist here in this one , it tells it's story effectively enough but it's fairly straight forward stuff . The dialogue is quite snappy & it certainly passes the time harmlessly enough but it's a bit forgettable & rather unremarkable . The one set used here look good & the production values are fine . I still don't understand how Gabe managed to make that last ball jump out of the pocket & it's never explained . It's fairly obvious the two leads can't play pool themselves & whenever there's a trick shot their face is always off screen so some professional pool player can make the shot for them . There's a bit of blood in this episode at the end but little in the way of horror or gore , this is more of a character piece than anything else . The acting is alright & Rebecca Downs makes for a sexy pool playing Vampire . Pool Sharks is the second Monsters episode about Vampires after The Vampire Hunter ( 1988 ) which is the slightly better episode although Pool Sharks is still watchable enough , there's just not that much to it when all said & done .
" I'm beyond help ! " Rather dull late 50's monster flick .	The Hideous Sun Demon is set in Los Angeles where there has been an accident , obscure scientist Dr . Gilber McKenna ( producer & co-director Robert Clarke ) has been accidentally exposed to a radioactive isotope & has been rushed to hospital . McKenna seems fine but while outside relaxing he transforms into a prehistoric half-man half reptile sun demon creature because of the radioactive rays of the sun , McKenna becomes a recluse as he stays inside his house all day only daring to come out at night away from the harmful rays of the sun . McKenna's colleagues Dr . Frederick Buckell ( Patrick Whyte ) & Ann Russell ( Patricia Manning ) ask radiation expert Dr . Jacob Hoffman ( Fred La Porta ) to help McKenna . Things become complicated when McKenna falls in love with nightclub performer Trudy Osborne ( Nan Peterson ) & he kills her abusive boyfriend . . . Apparently shot under the working title of Terror from the Sun this was edited & directed by Tom Boutross along with Robert Clark who also directed , produced & starred in it & is a surprisingly dull late 50's monster flick that should really have been better . The script relies on that staple 50's standby of it's monster being a direct result of radiation , I wasn't around back then but I guess people's fears of radiation & it's unknown potentially harmful effects were at their height & maybe it would have resonated with audiences slightly better back in 1959 than it does when viewed now fifty years later in 2009 . The main thing that struck me while watching The Hideous Sun Demon was just how padded out & rather dull the whole affair actually is , I was surprised just how padded The Hideous Sun Demon felt considering it lasts for a modest 74 minutes . The film is also plagued by the usual problems these 50's monsters flicks have , quite a bit of stock footage of cars driving around , the title monster is barely seen until the end & the romantic subplot between Gilbert & Trudy gets more screen time than the horror & sci-fi stuff which just isn't right in my book . Having said that the film is watchable , the central character of Gilbert is slightly better fleshed out than one might expect , it's quite fun when the hideous sun demon show's up & at least it's short . Not exactly brilliant by any means but not a complete disaster either , it's just stuck somewhere between the two . The film has a very static somewhat dull look to it as the camera barely ever moves . There are a couple of fairly poorly staged fights & probably the worst piano miming sequence ever , Tudy barely moves her arms yet manages to bang out a tune without so much as a misplaced note . There's not too much violence , the sun demon kills a couple of people , a dog & a rat but there's nothing graphic here . The sun demon itself looks alright as far as 50's men in rubber suits type monsters go but ultimately it never really looks anything like a man in a rubber suit , the face mask is quite good but I doubt it would scare too many people these days . For some bizarre reason this was retitled to & released under Blood on His Lips here in the UK in early 1961 which makes no sense as a title at all . It's amazing how much The Hideous Sun Demon influenced William Sachs when he made the infinitely better The Incredible Melting Man ( 1977 ) which copies lots of scenes especially the climax which is virtually identical in both films . Filmed in California on a supposed budget of about $58 , 500 the production values are decent enough if dated by todays standards , lets just put it this was The Hideous Sun Demon isn't as badly made as some 50's sci-fi films . The acting is alright but nothing special & does tend to be a little wooden & static at times . The Hideous Sun Demon is an OK 50's black and white monster flick that could have been better but also could have been worse , it's one of those films that I sat through without any problems but will probably have forgotten about within a week .
A rather average episode .	Monsters : Holly's House is set in New York where the children's TV show Holly's House is filmed , Holly is a rather freakish looking child sized robotic doll puppet controlled & voiced off-screen by Kathy ( Marilyn Jones ) . Kathy reveals to her lover Eddie ( Perry Lang ) that she is pregnant & is willing to give up the show & Holly the puppet , however Holly the seemingly robotic puppet has ideas of it's own & doesn't want Kathy to ever leave her . . . Episode two from season one of Monsters this originally aired in the US during October 1988 , directed by Ted Gershuny I actually thought Holly's House was a rather average episode that doesn't really stand-out in any way . The script uses the juxtaposition of setting a sinister horror story in the world of children's telly but this episode is largely predictable & there's not much of a twist either , in fact it's probably one of the most forgettable twist endings in the entire three seasons . The script tries to keep the audience guessing & try not to make it clear whether Holly the doll is really alive or whether Kathy is a schizophrenic with a split-personality although it's fairly easy to predict which option the script decides to take once it comes to the crunch . All in all Holly's House is a fairly unremarkable episode that has some humour which doesn't really work & the whole living killer doll plot has been done before most notably in the Child's Play series of films . At only just over twenty odd minutes in length at least it's short & as a one off horror anthology short it's not a complete disaster but at the same time it's nothing that memorable . This episode of Monsters is probably one of the few telly show's that has two back-to-back opening credit sequences as after the regular Monsters opening sequence it cuts straight to the fictional Holly's House opening sequence which plays in full . The Holly doll is about the size of a ten year old & it's obvious there's someone in the doll suit operating it , she does look quite freaky at times with her over-sized fat cherub styled face & simplified features . The design of Holly plays on our fears of deformity & is unnervingly close to the real thing . There isn't any gore in this one although someone is stabbed with a pair of scissors . There's a decent look to this episode as well as it drifts between the bright jovial children's TV set & the harsher reality of backstage . Holly's House is a rather forgettable episode of Monsters that isn't funny or scary & features a predictable plot about a living doll that ends up killing , even the meagre & frankly lacklustre twist can't save it . Not one of the better episodes but just about watchable .
Watchable enough episode .	Monsters : Fools ' Gold starts as underground workman Gerry ( Greg Safel ) accidentally exposes a large cavern next to where he is digging , poking his inside Gerry is attacked & killed by something in the shadow's . Gerry's boss Sherrie ( Mary Cadorette ) & two workmates Phil ( Jeff Conaway ) & Joe ( T . J . Castronova ) find his badly burned body clutching several pieces of solid gold . Phil goes inside the cavern & finds a huge chest of gold but also runs into an evil little Troll ( Debbie Carrington ) there to guard it & kill anyone who wants to steal it . Phil , Joe & Sherrie all agree that they want the gold but must first find a way to get past the evil vicious little Troll . . . Episode twelve from season one of Monsters this originally aired in the US during January 1989 , the one & only directorial effort from special make-up effects man Greg Cannom ( whose higher profile make-up effects credits include the likes of Titanic ( 19970 ) , Blade ( 1998 ) , Hannibal ( 2001 ) , The Passion of the Christ ( 2004 ) , Van Helsing ( 2004 ) , The Curious Case of Benjamin Button ( 2008 ) & Watchmen ( 2009 ) as well as a whole slew of low budget horror ) & isn't a bad installment but isn't amongst the show's best . The one surprise is that the script doesn't go down the moralistic route in the sense I thought the character's involved would either die or be killed because of their own stupidity or greed trying to steal the gold & I actually think Fools ' Gold would have been much more satisfying if that's the way the script had gone . The fact two of the three main character's survive seems a little pointless & to me this episode felt like a missed opportunity . A bit . Still , at only twenty odd minutes in length it moves along at a good pace & at least merits a watch if nothing else . This one has an 80's horror film feel to it with the lighting & the sets being quite atmospheric . The featured monster in Fools ' Gold is an ugly little Troll that looks like a smaller version of the monster from The Crate segment from the fun George A . Romero anthology horror Creepshow ( 1982 ) & the creature effects here are pretty good although it's kept mostly in the shadow's until the end & you can tell it's just a person in a monster suit although to be fair it's a good monster suit . There's not much gore here , there's a burned face & some bright green spraying Troll blood but little else . Monsters : Fools ' Gold is a decent enough way to spend twenty odd minutes but there's not that much to it & the ending isn't very satisfying either , not too bad but not that great either .
Re : the Unrated Director's Cut . Rather long & uneventful remake .	Halloween starts in Haddonfield , Illinois on October 31 where abused & psychologically disturbed 10 year old child Michael Myers ( Daeg Faerch ) goes postal & murders his stepfather Ronnie ( William Forsythe ) , his sister Judith ( Hanna Hall ) & her boyfriend Steve ( Adam Weisman ) not necessarily in that order . Michael is convicted of murder & incarcerated in Smiths Grove Sanitarium & treated under the supervision of Dr . Samuel Loomis ( Malcolm McDowell ) . Jump forward fifteen years later & Michael hasn't said a word in that time , he is now just an empty shell of pure hatred & evil . Two guards attempt to rape a female patient late one night & Michael is given an opportunity to escape which he happily takes killing anyone who tries to stop him . Michael heads back for Haddonfield where he intends to find & kill his last remaining relative Laurie Strode ( Scout Taylor-Compton ) who is blissfully unaware that she even has a brother . . . Written , co-produced & directed by Rob Zombie ( real name Robert Cummings ) this remake of John Carpenter's widely considered classic Halloween ( 1978 ) continues the recent trend of Hollywood studios remaking classic horror films such as Dawn of the Dead ( 2004 ) , The Fog ( 2005 ) , The Hills Have Eyes ( 2006 ) , Black Christmas ( 2006 ) , The Wicker Man ( 2006 ) & The Hitcher ( 2007 ) to name but a few of the more recent ones . These remakes are a bit of a mixed bag some being great while others are plain terrible & I would say in my opinion the Halloween remake is somewhere between the two , I didn't like it that much but I didn't flat out hate it either . Like most films are these days Halloween went to theatres as an ' R ' rated version & subsequently released on DVD shortly after in an ' Unrated ' director's cut which not only lasts for twenty minutes longer but has many scenes changed & altered including Michael's prison break which is totally different in the two versions to the extent even different actor's were used in the sequence . Carpenter's original Halloween is considered by many as one of the finest tension filled slasher films ever , it's simple basic self contained story of a psychopath out to kill Laurie . With the remake Zombie has decided to go into Michael's head & give him lots of background & reasoning behind what he does & who he is which I must confess bored me . These explanations offer nothing new or any sort of significant motivation other than he had a difficult childhood . The first forty odd minutes of Halloween sets the Michael character up , the protracted killing of his family , scenes of his treatment & breakout . Carpenter's efficient & economic original did the same in less than half that time . I didn't like the character's that much , Laurie in particular was very annoying & by the end I was rooting for Michael & hoped he would just kill her if not just to stop her irritating screaming . Director Zombie goes the modern route & instead of nice long establishing shots & camera moves there's plenty of quick cuts & shaky hand held camera movement . Not overly pleasant to watch . It's undoubtedly well made but it's shallow , forgettable & at just under two hours far too long & drawn out . It's always a bad sign when you are sitting watching a film & you keep repeating ' please just finish ' in your mind for the last thirty minutes . There's some blood splatter but not much actual gore , there's an impressively bloody slit throat but little else . The nudity count is very high with Zombie never missing an opportunity to undress his actresses & show some breast . In fact he even kills two of his character's off while they are naked . It gives the film a certain sleazy & cheap feel which may be a recommendation for some on it's own . With a supposed budget of about $20 , 000 , 000 Halloween is well made with good production values but at the same time is almost instantly forgettable . There is nothing here for instance to match the long continuous point-of-view shot of Michael putting his mask on , walking through the house , picking up the knife & stabbing his sister as seen in the original . It was nice to hear the classic John Carpenter Halloween theme used here . The acting is alright & there are several familiar faces including McDowell , Brad Dourif , William Forsythe , Richard Lynch , Udo Kier , Clint Howard , Ken Foree & Danny Trejo who all should be familiar to seasoned horror flick fans . Halloween is an average slasher film under any title & in trying to pit itself against what many consider to be the finest slasher film ever ( not me though ) it was on a hiding to nothing before it was even released . A passable modern slasher flick but nothing else .
One of the better entries , still nothing more than average though .	Películas Para no Dormir : La Habitación del Niño is set in Sapin where Juan ( Javier Gutiérrez ) works as a sports writer on a local paper , together with his wife Sonia ( Leonor Watling ) & their seven moth old baby they have moved into a new big house . Juan brought it cheap because he soon finds out to his cost that it has a terrible history , he soon sees other people in his house who disappear as quickly as they appear & Juan fears for his family . Eventually Juan believes that his new house might be haunted but the truth is even more shocking than that . . . Known amongst English speaking audiences as The Baby's Room this is yet another one of those made for Spanish telly Films to Keep You Awake which in my humble opinion have all but one been rubbish , Películas Para no Dormir : La Habitación del Niño is the second best film out of the six . Co-written & directed by Álex de la Iglesia I really don't have much good to say about Películas Para no Dormir : La Habitación del Niño . The script is a mess of ideas that don't work , at first it seems like a haunted house horror film but then changes direction into a parallel Universe tale with evil alter egos & neither particularly satisfy . There's some absurd & frankly ridiculous pseudo science explanations for the events in Juan's house but they have no real credibility in any sense . There's never any explanation as to why Juan can go back & forward between these parallel worlds , or why the kid at the start could either , there's no explanation or motivation as to why the Juan from the parallel world would want to come into ours if it's basically the same & I just didn't think Películas Para no Dormir : La Habitación del Niño was very good . It tells an OK story but it never grabbed me or really entertained me , at a little over seventy odd minutes at least it's short but it does feel longer at times . I don't know , the film just didn't work for me & I really didn't like it that much . Unlike most of the Fims to Keep You Awake at least Películas Para no Dormir : La Habitación del Niño actually tries to be a straight horror themed story , that still doesn't make it any good but at least it's recognisable horror . I wouldn't say it's scary , it plays on our fears about not being able to protect our families but otherwise I wouldn't call it scary . Like the other Films to keep You Awake there's no gore either , a woman is stabbed in the neck but that's it . Shot in Spanish the film is subtitled , Películas Para no Dormir : La Habitación del Niño is a fairly exposition heavy story & people talk very quickly so the subtitles don't stay on screen for long . I watched this on a big screen telly & your eyes are naturally drawn to the bottom of the screen & the subtitles which means the top half of the picture is out of your eye-line for the majority of the duration . Very annoying . Technically Películas Para no Dormir : La Habitación del Niño is alright , it's well made but hardly spectacular . Like the other Films to Keep You Awake this was shot in Spain . The acting seems OK but since everyone is speaking a different language they could be saying anything . . . Películas Para no Dormir : La Habitación del Niño is the second best of the Films to Keep You Awake which really isn't saying much is it ? I mean second is just the first loser . I am sure there are people out there who will like this but I am not one of them , it just didn't do anything for me at all .
" Pretty soon we'll all be dead so forget it . " Disappointing Godzilla film .	Gojira tai Hedora , or alternatively either Godzilla vs . Hedora or Godzilla vs . the Smog Monster as it's more commonly known amongst English speaking audiences , starts as a huge space monster that has grown to an enormous size by consuming Earth's pollution makes itself know to the world by attacking & sinking a couple of tankers in a Japanese bay . Scientist Dr . Yano ( Akira Yamauchi ) & his annoying family are determined to stop the creature that has been named Hedora by his young son Ken ( Hiroyuki Kawase ) , Hedora changes shape & size as it works it's way across Japan spreading a deadly toxic mist which kills & corrodes as the pollution it feeds on only makes it bigger & stronger . Then Godzilla turns up & decides to defend japan against Hedora & the two monsters find themselves in a fight to the death . . . This Japanese production was the eleventh Godzilla film made by Toho studios , co-written & directed by Yoshimitsu Banno this is actually a pretty weak entry . The script by Banno & Takeshi Kimura is not particularly subtle in the way it tries to get it's social & moral message about the danger's of pollution , this is very simplistic by-the-the-numbers childish plotting that repeatedly beats the viewers head with the basic premise pollution is bad . Well to be frank I think you'll have to have been living in a cave for the past thirty odd years not to know that anyway so as a film with a message it's very dated . Then there's the fact that this is a Japanese Godzilla film & even as one of those Gojira tai Hedorah isn't that great , the fights are weak & unimaginative & the human character's are rubbish with Dr . Yano seemingly the only person in the entire world who wants to do something about the Smog Monster & he is confined to bed injured for the majority of the film . To it's credit I liked the Smog Monster itself , it moves along at a nice pace is isn't boring if nothing else . There are better Godzilla films out there so this one is probably one for the fans or if your very bored . Director Banno doesn't do anything special , the fights aren't the most exciting & that kid Ken is probably one of the most annoying character's I've seen in a while although luckily he completely disappears about halfway through the film . The scene when Godzilla flies is just plain embarrassing & what the hell are those cartoon interludes all about ? Then there's a hallucinatory bizarre sequence set in a Japanses nightclub which has be been seen & heard to be believed along with a ' groovy ' party set on Mount Fuji by some Japanese teenagers & who the hell were those dirty faced people spying on them from behind the bushes ? ! Oh & the opening titles rip-off the style used by the James Bond films . The special effects are no better or worse than any other Godzilla film I suppose although I thought the Smog Monster looked quite good as the reptile thing with slimy dripping tendril's & giant glowing red eyes but when it's shaped like a flying saucer gliding through the air it looks odd & somewhat silly to say the least . This is one strange film overall with some bizarre film-making decisions & techniques . Technically the film is alright , the 2 : 35 : 1 widescreen photography is nice enough if you can see it that way although the dubbing is absolutely terrible & I have to mention the annoying music which I thought was awful . Since it was shot in Japanese it's hard to tell about the original performances . Gojira tai Hedora is a pretty weak Godzilla film , it doesn't have the fun or entertainment value of many other films from the series . I consider myself a Godzilla film fan & even I found this disappointing .
Inferior remake to a exploitation classic ! Disappointment all round !	Humanoids from the Deep is set in the small American coastal town of ' Harbor Shores ' where ' Canco Industries ' cannery plant is located , lately they have been suffering from protests by environmentalist's who believe that the manager Bill Taylor ( Mark Rolston ) has been dumping chemicals into the sea . Bill's friend Wade Parker ( Robert Carradine ) confronts him about it & is given assurances that no dumping of chemicals is taking place which is a lie as Bill has been dumping a growth hormone called ' Synestin ' into the sea to accelerate the growth of the fish . An attack on a group of activists leaves four missing , including Wade's daughter Kim ( Danielle Weeks ) , & one guy named Matt ( Justin Walker ) talking about sea monsters which no one believes , at first that is anyway . Genetic scientist Dr . Drake ( Emma Samms ) shows up & tells Wade that an army experiment to create amphibious soldiers went wrong & the mutated results are now loose in Harbor Shores . . . Written & directed by Jeff Yonis this was a made-for-cable TV remake of Humanoids from the Deep ( 1980 ) , both were executive produced by Roger Corman . The script changes a few things & not for the better , for a start it brings in the obligatory teen cast , it cuts out all the gore , rape & exploitation from the original & introduces the clichéd army involvement & secret Government experiments as an explanation for the origins of the sea monsters , what I want to know is how Emma Samms kept a straight face as her character explained to Wade that these sea monsters are in fact death-row prisoners whose DNA had been mixed with that of a fish to try & create an amphibious soldier ! This short passage of dialogue has to be heard to be believed , extremely silly & funny sounding stuff . It's a much smaller scale film , in the original it really felt like the whole town was under attack but in this there are only a few basic character's , the introduction of the army doesn't help & I just thought it was a step down from the original on every level . Having said that it moves along at a fair pace , the basic story of raping sea monsters is still the same & if you don't expect too much it provides a fair amount of fun & entertainment . Director Yonis does a pretty decent job & it looks slightly better than the average TV film , there isn't much in the way of scares , tension , shocks or atmosphere . To save money this uses footage from the 1980 original particularly during the scene set in the funfair , it comes as no surprise that our heroes are nowhere to be seen when all the carnage is taking place as they are seemingly stuck in a funhouse as the sea monsters attack outside , this footage is badly edited into the main feature & looks out of place . The gore is severely toned down , a ripped off arm , an Alien ( 1979 ) rip-off monster birth sequence & a guy with one leg missing is about as nasty as it gets . No nudity this time either . Technically Humanoids from the Deep is alright , it was obviously made on a low budget . The monsters themselves look like men in rubber suits because that's what they are although they don't look too bad . The acting was pretty bad . Humanoids from the Deep the remake is not as good as the original in any way but when all said & done I thought it was OK , it certainly passed the time harmlessly enough . Probably just about worth a watch but nothing overly special .
Better than the original , but that ain't saying much is it ?	Anacondas : The Hunt for the Blood Orchid starts in New York City where company executive Gordon Mitchell ( Chesnut Morris ) is about to lose a huge contract as a pharmaceutical company is about to sever their ties with him , however scientist Dr . Jack Byron ( Matthew Marsden ) manages to convince the top brass that he has potentially discovered the pharmaceutical equivalent of the fountain of youth . A substance that could potentially prolong life , a substance taken from the rare Blood Orchid only found in Borneo & an Orchid which only blooms for 6 months every 7 years & the Orchid is only in bloom for a further two weeks . The top brass are convinced & excited about the prospect & an expedition is set up immediately , unfortunately it's rainy season & no respectable captain will take them so they hire renegade captain Bill Johnson ( Johnny Messner ) & his partner Tray ( Karl Yune ) to take them on their rickety old boat . Gordon , Dr . Byron & his assistant Sam Rogers ( KaDee Strickland ) , company representative Gail Stern ( Salli Richardson ) , team doctor Ben Douglas ( Nicholas Gonzalez ) & computer geek Cole Burris ( Eugene Byrd ) all set off on the long & perilous trip in search of the Orchid , however they must face & overcome plenty of obstacles including giant man-eating anacondas . . . Directed by Dwight H . Little Anacondas : The Hunt for the Blood Orchid is the sequel to the terrible Anaconda ( 1997 ) & is a big improvement but is still by no means a classic by any stretch of the imagination . The script by John Claflin , Daniel Zelman , Michael Miner & Ed Neumeier feels a lot like the original & just about any other giant monster on the loose film if you strip it down to it's most basic as it is pretty much exactly the same , a group of people on a old boat who become stuck in the middle of the jungle where a few insignificant character's are either crushed or eaten by an anaconda before the survivors kill it & sail off into the sunset happily ever after . As a result if you've seen the original there isn't much reason to sit through his , there are no surprises , there's as many clichés as you can shake a stick at particularly the character's . There's the usual bland mix of stereotypes like doctors , scientists , computer guys & the unorthodox hero who saves the day . The story itself has many problems like I could never figure out why they just don't ride in helicopters & it's not because there's nowhere to land as there are helicopters that can land on water , it would have been both quicker & safer . That spider is complete nonsense , why would the snake explode at the end , a lot of the so called facts are utter tosh & the anaconda is a South American species of snake not a South Asian one , anacondas don't live in Borneo - FACT . Having said that it moves along at a fair pace & if you don't go into it expecting too much than you may find it an OK way to pass 90 odd minutes . Director Little does an OK job but you can't help but feel that it's a little on the plain side , there isn't much in the way of shocks or scares & as a whole the film feels more like an adventure as the bulk of it focuses on the the teams attempts to get back to civilisation with the giant anacondas being an almost secondary consideration & a bit of an afterthought . Forget about any gore as there isn't any . With a supposed budget of $25 , 000 , 000 Anacondas : The Hunt for the Blood Orchid has surprisingly poor special effects for a very modern film , the snake CGI didn't look that good to me . Shot in Fiji & New Zealand the film looks very samey with lots of green jungle which becomes tedious to look at after a while . The acting wasn't that great , does anyone else think Richardson looks like Jennifer Lopez a lot ? Butch hero Messner speaks with a funny voice throughout the entire thing that was supposed to make him sound hard . It doesn't . Byrd as Cole has to one of the most annoying actor / character I've seen in a while & to add insult to injury not only does he not die he actually saves the day at the end , urgh . Anacondas : The Hunt for the Blood Orchid is an OK film if you go into it with low enough expectations & at least it's a lot better than the original . Could have been better could have been worse .
Cheap Italian produced exploitation , nothing wrong with that in itself but could have been better !	La Lupa Mannara , or Werewolf Woman as it's more commonly known among English speaking audiences , begins 200 years ago with a naked woman ( Annik Borel ) tied to a stake in the ground and surrounded by a circle of fire as the credits roll , she also performs some sort of dance totally naked . After a lengthy nonsensical monologue about Werewolves this woman turns into one , a Werewolf that is . She has a dog snout for a nose , sharp teeth & drools a little bit but otherwise looks human in appearance except her ridiculous looking over-sized nipples and patches of hair over her body . A local posse of torch wielding towns people are after her . She kills one ( Andrea Scotti ) by sticking an axe in his head . Daniella Neseri ( Annik Borel , again ) wakes up from her nightmare . Ever since Daniella found a miniature portrait of an ancestress that has a striking resemblance to herself she has been having bizarre nightmares & hallucinations . Daniella has been living in solitude in the Italian countryside with her rich industrialist Father , Count Neseri ( Tino Carraro ) , ever since she was raped when she was thirteen . Daniella is one messed up individual . One day her Father informs Daniella that her sister Elena ( Dagmar Lassander ) and her husband Fabian ( Andrea Scotti , again ) are coming to visit . When they arrive Daniella is shocked to find that Fabian looks exactly like the guy in her nightmare . After dinner and drinks Elena and Fabian go upstairs and start to have sex , Daniella looks and listens outside their open door and starts to , ahem touch herself if you know what I mean . Daniella makes a noise and runs away outside . Fabian decides to investigate the noise and follows Daniella outside . Fabian finds her and Daniella starts to seduce and have sex with him until she bites a chunk of flesh out of his throat and chucks his body over the side of a cliff . Daniella and her Father cover Fabians death up but Daniella completely loses it and is confined to hospital . A female patient tries to have lesbian sex with Daniella . Daniella kills her with a pair of scissors and escapes the hospital by stealing a doctor's car . Daniella then wanders around watching people having sex and killing them , killing people not having sex and just generally making a nuisance of herself . Inspector Monika ( Frederick Stafford ) is assigned to clear up the mess that Daniella is leaving behind , track her down and bring her to justice ! Eventually Daniella seems to settle down , find some happiness with a boyfriend & start a relationship but things soon change when some local thugs decide they want to rape Daniella and kill her boyfriend . Actions which literally brings the animal out in Daniella ! Co-written and directed by Rino Di Silvestro I thought Werewolf Woman was a cheap Italian produced exploitation film , which is not a bad thing in itself . It's not a bad film I suppose but it's hardly anything special , it has a very silly premise , unlikable characters , poor dubbing and an uninvolving patchy story . The script by Di Sivestro and Howard Ross who stars in the film as well , moves along at a fairly good pace but is very silly . The only sequence to feature a Werewolf is the opening nightmare , the script then tries to explain Daniella's actions with lots of stupid psychoanalysis babble spouted by pool playing doctor's that has to be heard to be believed . Totally ridiculous stuff and utterly laughable at times . Characters just come and go , for instance Daniella's Father and sister Elena both get a lot of screen time at the start but then they all but disappear at the half way mark at which point Inspector Monika is introduced along with Daniella's boyfriend as their characters take over the remainder of the film . Daniella is the only character who is in the film throughout , from beginning to end . Talking of the end it's really dull and doesn't bring things to a satisfactory conclusion in any way , we also get another narration that claims these events were based on a real life incident . There is lots of nudity in Werewolf Woman . Borel gets undressed at every opportunity , in fact I think the amount of time she spends naked is greater than the time she is clothed . All the other female cast members also take their clothes off at some point . There are a lot of sex scenes and an unpleasant rape . The gore & violence is more restrained , a gory shot of an axe in someones forehead , a pair of scissors stuck into the back of someones neck , a dead mauled body on an autopsy table and a few bitten off chunks of flesh . Nothing to explicit but at the same time these scenes have a certain nastiness about them . Werewolf Woman as a whole has the sort of production values you would expect from a 70's Italian exploitation film , cheap looking but professional enough and in no way outstanding . Worth watching if your a Euro exploitation / horror fan but if not than don't bother as there's nothing here to shout about . Average , at best .
" After all the excitement last night I'm lucky I know my own name . " So bad it's fun .	Billy the Kid versus Dracula starts late one night in the Old American West where a family of European immigrant's are sleeping in the open , Eva ( Virginia Christine ) & Franz Oster ( Walter Janovitz ) manage to scare Count Dracula ( John Carradine ) off before he bites their daughter Lisa's ( Hannie Landman ) neck . The following day & a stagecoach picks Dracula up from the side of the road , inside brother & sister Mary Bently ( Marjorie Bennett ) & James Underhill ( William Forrest ) tell Dracula about their niece they are visiting , Elizabeth ( Melinda Plowman ) & show him a photo . Dracula takes a shine to Elizabeth & decides he wants her by his side as one of the undead , I guess he's just sort of lonely at the moment . Dracula kills a native Indian girl & in retribution her tribe attacks the stagecoach & kills all inside , apart from Dracula of course . Dracula ends up at the town of Wilksbury & poses as Underhill so he can stay at his Ranch with Elizabeth , however Dracula didn't count on the fact that Elizabeth's current boyfriend is the notorious gunfighter William ' Billy the Kid ' Bonney ( Chuck Courtney ) whose suspicions are raised when the immigrant's point Dracula out as a Vampire Lisa is mysteriously killed that night & cattle keep turning up with they're throats cut open , William believes that a Vampire may be at work but will he figure it out in time to save Elizabeth . . . Directed by William Beaudine I thought Billy the Kid versus Dracula was a fairly fun film to watch if your in the right frame of mind . The script by Carl K . Hittleman mixes the unlikely genres of horror & western , it's not exactly a marriage made in heaven either . The whole film is extremely silly in feel & tone , I doubt anyone these days would take any of it seriously for a second & that's one of the problems as the script takes itself very seriously . However , to it's credit at only 70 odd minutes long at least it's short , it's never boring & it has a certain entertainment value about it . The character's are dumb , not much is made of the fact that Count Dracula is a Vampire , sure he has fangs & drinks blood but he walks around in the daylight & seems more interested in drinking the blood of the local livestock than the pretty young girls . Also what about Billy the Kid ? This guy is far to polite & caring for me to even consider the possibility that he was a hard as nails ruthless murdering gunfighter , ' would you like sugar in your tea Elizabeth ? ' . And what about Sheriff Griffin ( Roy Barcroft ) ? He sure is one understanding decent bloke , being held at gunpoint amongst other things he can still keep his sense of humour & just ' do the right thing ' in any given situation . Director Beaudine does an OK job , the film has a bright gaudy colour scheme to it , did Cowboys really wear pastel coloured shirts ? The sets are all very stereotypical & quaint , it's like an exact representation of what the West would've been like had it been picture perfect . Sure , there's a few rotten eggs about but everyone else are pretty decent blokes who help strangers & give seemingly random people jobs & free rooms for the night , ya right . I'd have imagined Billy the Kid versus Dracula was a pretty low budget film , in fact I'm sure of it . To be fair it looks OK , it has nice bright colourful cinematography , the sets & locations are a little ' Hollywood ' but it has decent production values & is better made than you might have thought . One area of criticism that Billy the Kid versus Dracula can't escape is in the special effects department , the rubber bat the filmmakers use looks totally pathetic & surely one of the worst ever committed to film ! Carradine apparently called this his worst film , I'd have to disagree with old John boy on that I'm afraid . The acting is rather flat & no-one puts much effort in . Billy the Kid versus Dracula is a rare breed of film that tries to mix the horror & western genre , there's plenty of horses , gunslinging , macho posturing & fights , Saloons , ranches , concerns over cattle together with Vampires , neck biting , turning people into the undead , rubber bats , & a strange red glow that engulfs Carradines face every so often for no apparent reason so when I think about it it's not entirely unsuccessful at what it sets out to do . Personally I can't call it a good film but I didn't think it was too bad either , worth a watch if your looking for something a bit different .
" You fckin Italian puke . " Steven Seagal's first film back when he was thin !	Above the Law is set in Chicago during 1988 where Nico Toscani ( co-producer Steven Seagal ) works as a tough narcotics cop , while forcibly removing his niece from a crack house he beats some information out of a punk & learns of a large shipment of drugs being imported into the country . Toscani sets a bust up & local drug dealer Salvano ( Daniel Faraldo ) is arrested , however instead of drugs Toscani finds lots of C4 explosives . After a C4 bomb goes off in his local Church Toscani digs deeper & discovers a plot by evil corrupt CIA agent Kurt Zagon ( Henry Silva ) to assassinate a senator who might expose him , once Zagon realise Toscani knows his plans he also becomes a target . . . This American Hong Kong co-production was co-written , co-produced & directed by Andrew Davis & is probably more notable for being Steven Seagal's feature film debut back when he was thin than for being any good , to be frank I don't think it's one of Seagal's better action films but it's far from his worst . The script by Steven Pressfield , Ronald Shusett & Davis is actually a touch dull , it aimlessly wanders between OK action set-pieces without much of a story to maintain ones interest . The basic message of Above the Law is that it is dangerous to have organisations which are , well , above the law & not accountable to anyone . It's not much of a message to be honest & the only reason anyone would be interested in watching Above the Law is for the action & violence , there are some trademark brutal fight scenes with Seagal chopping bad guy's hands off , breaking necks & beating people with baseball bats but it's a little low key at times . The character's are a bit clichéd & not particularly good , there is also a lot of profanity & bad language . In fact by the end of Above the Law I thought everyone's favourite two words were ' fcker ' & ' mother ' , not necessarily in that order of course . . . Director Davis & Seagal team up for the first time & would reunite for the much better Under Siege ( 1992 ) a few years later , here he directs the action in a rather workmanlike fashion with competence but nothing outstanding or that memorable . I just didn't think the action scenes were ' big ' enough if you get what I mean . I couldn't quite believe how young & thin Seagal looked in this , I really can't . Despite his stupid looking pony-tail he's quite impressive in this & looks as if he could kick your ass . Technically the film is fine , it's well made & functional but nothing that's going to win any awards . Shot on location in Illinois in Chicago . The acting is OK but everyone seems to swear constantly which gets annoying , Pam Grier & Henry Silva have roles while Sharon Stone gets almost top billing in the credits for about three minutes of screen time . Above the Law ( originally called Nico here in the UK ) is an average Seagal action flick , the only really notable aspect of it is that it was Seagal's feature film debut but that doesn't automatically make it any good , does it ?
Didn't like it back in the 80's & I didn't think too much of it now .	C . H . U . D . is set in New York City where Flora Bosch ( Laure Mattos ) disappears , her husband New York police Captain Bosch ( Christopher Curry ) is obviously concerned . Captain Bosch knows that his wife isn't the only person to disappear recently & a man named A . J . Shepherd ( Daniel Stern ) has reported the disappearance of a group of homeless people who live in the sewers , interested Bosch goes to visit Shepherd & working together they discover that due to toxic waste being dumped under the city the homeless people who live underground have mutated into hideous monsters ( with glow in the dark eyes ! ) who feed on human flesh & they are ready to go up top to find food . . . Standing for either Cannibalistic Humanoid Underground Dweller or Contamination Hazard Urban Disposal C . H . U . D . was directed by Douglas Cheek & I vividly remember renting C . H . U . D . on VHS here in the UK because of very impressive looking video cover artwork ( when will we learn not to judge a film on a few decent looking stills on the back of it's box ? ) & I didn't like it all that much , I just finished watching it mere minutes ago & I have to say I didn't like that much now either . C . H . U . D . is one of those frustrating films which is available in two different versions , the original theatrical cut & a more recent director's cut which is eight minutes longer , adds scenes , eliminates any humour & has the John Goodman diner scene where it is supposed to be rather than tacked onto the end as an awkward sequel driven twist . The script by Parnall Hall & it's two stars Daniel Hall & Christopher Curry uncredited had potentially the making of a great horror film but the pace is so slow it's untrue , there just isn't enough dramatic incident to maintain ones interest . The script focuses far too much on how the C . H . U . D . monsters were created , boring politics & arguing between different Government agencies & lots of little various sub-plots which amount to nothing & as the end credits roll on reflection feel like padding . The ending on this director's cut is poor too , it seemingly completely forgets about the C . H . U . D . monsters ( nothing new there then since it does for most of the film ) & just stops rather than ends . I respect C . H . U . D . for trying to be a serious , well thought out horror film with depth & meaningful character's but Jesus Christ is anyone out there going into it for those elements or are they going into C . H . U . D . looking for some good old fashioned monster fun ? I'd wager it's the monster angle every time & since that's the most neglected element of C . H . U . D . it must go down as a disappointment & a missed opportunity . Director Cheek does a really good job & C . H . U . D . is a great looking & feeling horror film , there's a real sense of atmosphere & the constant threat that it will burst into life at any moment which unfortunately it never does . There are plenty of opportunities for the filmmakers to show some solid C . H . U . D . action but refuse on almost every occasion , you can count on one hand how many times the C . H . U . D . creatures are involved in a scene , we hardly ever see them & that has to be a bad thing since when we do actually get a look at the things they are pretty impressive & nasty looking monsters . The special make-up effects are really good as well with one or two decent gore scenes , there's a couple of ripped in half bodies , there are several severed limbs seen , someone is shot in the neck , there's a gory leg wound & a couple of really yucky looking decapitated heads . For those interested no John Goodman isn't seen being killed . No nudity either . With a supposed budget of about $1 , 250 , 000 C . H . U . D . is a really well made film which was shot on location in New York with high production values . This is the New York of two decades ago though with it's grimy streets , the New York in C . H . U . D . no longer exists . The acting is alright , even pretty good but the film spends too much time focusing on the human cast rather than the monsters . C . H . U . D . could have been a really great modern monster film , as it is it has to go down as a big disappointment for me as it's just so slow & pedestrian . When it's good C . H . U . D . is a really good monster film but when it's bad C . H . U . D . nearly sent me to sleep . Followed by C . H . U . D . II - Bud the Chud ( 1989 ) which has no connection to this other than in title .
Not too bad but not my sort of film .	Bud Abbott Lou Costello Meet Frankenstein start as baggage handlers Chick Young ( Bud Abbott ) & Wilbur Grey ( Lou Costello ) are asked to deliver two crates to McDougal's House of Horror wax museum which contain two new exhibits , Dracula ( Bela Lugosi ) & the Frankenstein ( Glenn Strange ) monster . However it turns out that Dracula is alive & brings the Frankenstein monster back to life as well , he teams up with scientist Dr . Sandra Mornay ( Lenore Aubert ) who plans to transplant Wilbur's docile & child like brain into the Frankenstein monster as it can be controlled much more easily to do Dracula's evil bidding . . . Directed by Charles Barton this was the first team up between Universal studios classic monsters & the prolific comedy duo of Bud Abbott & Lou Costello who had appeared in dozens of films together , Bud Abbott Lou Costello Meet Frankenstein came at a time when both franchises had been pretty much exhausted & it's a fair light hearted horror comedy with much more emphasis on the comedy while the monsters are there mainly for show . The script by Robert Lees & Frederic Rinaldo was originally called The Brain of Frankenstein & actually has Dracula as the main bad guy of the film , in fact despite the title Abbott & Costello never meet Frankenstein only his monster which doesn't get a lot of use for the majority of the film . Bizarrely the script also throws in the Wolfman for no apparent reason other than to have another classic monster in it . A lot of the comedy in this film is of the physical variety with people falling over things & the like as well as a constant stream of verbal jokes which you may or may not find funny depending on your sense of humour . One has to remember that Bud Abbott Lou Costello Meet Frankenstein was made sixty years ago & tastes , attitudes & humour has moved on since then . I'm sure a lot of people won't find this squeaky clean humour that funny & I have to say I didn't but I did like the film on a basic level & at only 80 odd minutes in length I think it's worth a watch & it moves along at a decent pace . Director Barton does alright , the sets are actually quite good & fairly atmospheric & it's a shame in my opinion that the film didn't have a bit more straight forward horror in it . The special effects are alright to although the flapping rubber toy bat on strings looks awful . I wouldn't say there's anything scary here & this is a film that could be enjoyed by all the family . Technically the film is quite impressive considering , it's well made with reasonable effects ( rubber bat apart ) , decent black and white photography & good sets . The acting is OK although I have never seen another Abbott & Costello film so I can't compare this to anything else they have appeared in . This was the final time Bela Lugosi donned the cape as Dracula while the same goes for Lon Chaney Jr . reprising his Wolfman role from The Wolf Man ( 1941 ) . Bud Abbott Lou Costello Meet Frankenstein is quite a fun little comedy horror that certainly passes 80 odd minutes but I didn't think the old school humour stands up today & I definitely wouldn't want to watch it again . Proved successful enough to be followed by several more similar themed film including Abbott and Costello Meet the Invisible Man ( 1951 ) , Abbott and Costello Meet Dr . Jekyll and Mr . Hyde ( 1953 ) & Abbott and Costello Meet the Mummy ( 1955 ) .
OK for what it is .	Frankenstein starts as the young Frankenstein ( Augustus Phillips ) heads off to college wishing his fiancé Elizabeth ( Mary Fuller ) goodbye . Two short years later & Frankenstein has found the key to creating life which he does , however instead of making another human being he creates a monster ( Charles Ogle who did his own monster make-up ) . . . Written & directed by J . Searle Dawley I suppose you could call this 1910 version of Frankenstein based upon Mary Shelley's novel the granddaddy of all the filmed adaptations that have followed & is alright for what it is but I'm not quite sure who it would appeal to these days . The script tells the basic Frankenstein story although this time he uses a potion to create his monster rather than body parts , the film only lasts for 13 minutes so it's hardly deep or meaningful but it tells it's story competently enough . Obviously it's a silent film so there's no spoken dialogue instead the version I saw used intermission cards . I'm not sure whether it's down to the fact that the print used for all existing versions came from a private collection but the colour shifts about a lot going from black and white to a orange tint to a blue one , there are also lots & lots of print damage with constant scratches , jumps & pops . There are some early special effects which are alright considering the films vintage . Since it's original release Frankenstein had been considered lost until a print was found in Wisconsin of all places during the 70's . Would the world be a poorer place had this stayed lost ? Well , not really in my opinion to be honest . The newly composed music is quite good though . Frankenstein is really only of historical interest these days , it's not particularly good & none of it's slight 13 minute running time really entertain that much . For film historians only , give me Peter Cushing in a full blooded British Hammer horror any day of the week . . .
" You so much as breathe in my direction you'll be eating your balls for lunch . " Average 80's slasher .	Graduation Day is set in Midvale High School in California where star athlete Laura Ramstead ( Ruth Ann Llorens ) is just but a few days away from graduation along with the rest of the track team , during the last track meet of the year Coach Michaels ( Christopher George ) pushes Laura hard in a 100 meter sprint & just after crossing the line Laura drops down dead from a blood clot in her heart . Laura's older sister Anne ( Patch Mackenzie ) takes some leave from her job in the Navy to accept a special award dedicated to Laura during graduation day , however she might be a bit lonely during graduation as someone is going around killing off the members of the track team . Maybe it's the bitter Coach who was fired ? Maybe it's Anne herself who seems to resent everyone ? Maybe it's the security guard who likes to sneak around a lot ? The principal ? Maybe it was one of Laura's friends ? Watch it to find out . . . Co-written , co-produced & directed by Herb Freed this is yet another 80's slasher film where various American teenagers are bumped off by a mysterious killer , it is also one of the spate of slasher films based around a specific event day in the calender like Halloween ( 1978 ) , Friday the 13th ( 1980 ) , Prom Night ( 1980 ) , My Bloody Valentine ( 1981 ) & April Fool's Day ( 1986 ) . The script by Freed & Anne Marisse takes itself fairly seriously & is your typical pretty straight forward story of some killer with a grudge picking off a bunch of high school teens so in that respect don't expect anything new or original , to give it some credit for what it sets out to be Graduation Day is a relative success . The character's are alright , they aren't too annoying if nothing else & it moves along at a reasonable pace . The twist ending works reasonably well , the killers identity isn't as straight forward as some slasher flicks & there is a modicum of surprise once they have been revealed . The makers don't play up the mystery aspect though , there aren't many clues & to be fair at the end any of the potential suspects could have done it & still made as much sense . An OK time waster & if you like 80's slashers in particular , which I do , then Graduation Day will pass 100 odd minutes harmlessly enough although there definitely are better examples out there . Director Freed does alright , at least it has that 80's slasher film vibe to it which I have always liked . There's no great style here , it's competently made but forgettable . I wouldn't call this particularly scary or has much of an atmosphere . One important factor in your average 80's slasher is the gore quotient , Graduation Day has a bit of gore but certainly isn't on the level of say The Burning ( 1981 ) , The Prowler ( 1981 ) or Intruder ( 1989 ) . A woman has her throat slit , a girl has a sword put through her throat , there are a couple of decapitations , someone is impaled on an American football with a spike attached to it & a poor guy who pole vaults over a high bar lands on carefully placed spikes ! The gore is OK but not excessive & the special effects are cheap looking . There are also some choice scenes of nudity if that's your sort of thing . With a supposed budget of about $250 , 000 Graduation Day is reasonably well made , according to the IMDb this apparently made a highly respectable $25 , 000 , 000 in the cinema & on home video which just goes to prove how popular the slasher genre was back then even though they were more or less exactly the same . I have to mention some of the musical numbers in Graduation Day because my ears are still bleeding , seriously a couple of the songs heard in this are truly horrible . The acting isn't anything special but it isn't too bad & I've seen worse . Wheel of Fortune hostess Vanna White has a very , very small role . Graduation Day is an OK slasher from the 80's , it's certainly not the best example of it's kind but it's far from the worse & I'd rather watch this than most of the modern offerings that look like they are shot on digital video camcorders . Not bad but not great .
" Your inadequate Major , in every area . . . " - " You have a beautiful body , may I use it ? " Watchable enough Sci-Fi horror film .	Saturn 3 starts just like Star Wars ( 1977 ) with a shot of space in which a giant spacecraft slowly enters the top of the frame & flies ' over ' the camera . Onboard Captain James ( an uncredited Douglas Lambert ) prepares to depart in a small spacecraft when a mysterious spacesuit & helmet wearing person named Benson ( Harvey Keitel , hideously dubbed throughout by Roy Dotrice ) opens an airlock & blasts the Captain into some protective wires which make him explode . This impostor takes the place of the Captain & leaves on his own for one of the moons of Saturn . Once there Benson lands in an experimental food research station called Saturn 3 . There are only two people who live on Saturn 3 , reclusive lover's Adam ( Kirk Douglas ) & Alex ( Farrah Fawcett ) . It seems that Adam & Alex are making slow progress with their work so Earth has sent the first of the Demigod series of robots lovingly named Hector to help assist them in their research & hopefully speed things up a bit . At first Hector is in pieces , but it doesn't take long for Benson to screw him together & for the fun to start . Hector has the ability to learn directly from Benson , Benson has a special device implanted into the back of his neck which leads to his brain & Hector is able to absorb Benson's thoughts & personality through this device , or something like that . Unfortunately since Benson is a liar , murderer & a mentally unstable drug user Hector starts to develop some worrying personality traits from him . Including an unhealthy obsession with Alex , eventually Hector goes completely berserk & decides that nothing or nobody will stop him from achieving his slightly distorted orders . To make matters even worse Saturn 3 has just entered a 22 day eclipse & cannot contact anyone until they come out of it . . . Saturn 3 is one of those films with a troubled production history , John Barry started the film as director but was either fired or left depending on who you believe & the films producer Stanley Donen took over & completed the filming . I quite liked Saturn 3 , it isn't brilliant but it wasted an hour and twenty minutes painlessly enough . The script by Martin Amis is not without it's problems , for most of the film there are only three human characters in it . Saturn 3 could have done with a few more disposable cast members for Hector to kill . Benson's motives are almost totally ignored , why kill Captain James & go to Saturn 3 anyway ? About two thirds of the way through Hector kills him before he says anything to suggest why is is there , some of Benson's other actions throughout the film were also a bit of a mystery to me . How could Benson pass himself off as Captain James so easily ? I was also confused about Hector's motives , what were his eventual plans for Saturn 3 , Adam , Alex & why ? Some of the dialogue is a little silly as well . The taking of drugs is mentioned but not tackled in a serious way as is the pollution of Earth . The ' Trivia ' section on the IMDb states that Saturn 3 only has music during the opening & closing credits , well I can tell you now that I watched it mere hours ago & although the music is used sparingly in Saturn 3 it is scored throughout by Elmer Bernstein . I would also like to mention the sound effects at this point as they really got on my nerves , every time something happened there was an annoying exaggerated electrical sound like when Hector walks or does something , when a door opens or shuts or just operating a computer . The part of Saturn 3 which stands out is the production design & sets which are very impressive , Saturn 3 obviously had a fair amount of money spent on it's overall look . The deranged robot , Hector , looks quite good even if it's head is rather stupid in appearance & it's obviously just a poor actor encased in a robotic suit . It's just a shame he didn't get to do more , preferably killing people . Some of the spacecraft in Saturn 3 look extremely silly , impractical & are obviously just plastic models . The special optical effects are OK , they're not great but they are just about acceptable without becoming too distracting . The acting isn't that great , Douglas looks a little bit old for the role , the best thing I can say about Fawcett is that she's pretty to look at & Keitel complete with pony-tail is dubbed throughout so his original performance is lost . There is a brief nude scene with Fawcett , forget about any gore or violence as all we get a severed hand , a dead dog & a novel use of a decapitated head . Saturn 3 is generally well made & has a reasonable polish to it , nothing stands out as being particularly brilliant but at the same time nothing stands out as being particularly bad . Overall I found Saturn 3 to be an OK way to spend 85 odd minutes , with a bit more thought in the script it could have been really good . As it is it's average at best , watch it if there's nothing else to do .
Probably the best film Troma have made to date , that ain't saying much though . . .	The Toxic Avenger starts with a shot of the New York City skyline . A narration informs us that ' New York City , the worlds capital of culture & industry . Here , among the towering skyscraper's , civilisation is guided by men of progress & the wonders of technology . But for all this industrial advancement there is a price to pay . Pollution , the unavoidable byproduct of todays society , every year millions of gallons of poisonous wastes , garbage & radioactive chemicals are disposed of in nearby towns such as Tromaville the toxic waste dumping capital of the world . Our story takes place at the Tromaville health club where a young man named Melvin Furd ( forget what the IMDb says , it's definitely Furd not Junko ) works . Melvin's entire life , in fact entire being was changed by toxic chemical waste . . . ' Melvin ( Mark Torgl ) is a real loser , nerd & all round wimp . Melvin is a mop boy at the the Tromaville health club & everyone makes fun of him , especially four local thugs named Bozo ( Gary Schneider ) his girlfriend Julie ( Cindy Manion ) plus Slug ( Robert Prichard ) & his girlfriend Wanda ( Jennifer Prichard as Jennifer Babtist ) . One day the four decide to play a cruel practical joke on Melvin & humiliate him in front of as many people as possible . However things go wrong , or right depending on whichever way you look at it I suppose , & Melvin ends up head first in a barrel of hazardous toxic waste . As a consequence Melvin mutates into the Toxic Avenger ( Mitch Cohen as Mitchell Cohen ) , wow . After saving an Irish cop named Officer O'Clancy ( Dick Martinsen ) from a gang of three thugs , Cigarface ( Dan Snow ) , Knuckles ( Doug Isbecque ) & Nipples ( Charles Lee Jr . ) Toxie discovers that he enjoyed being a hero & so decides to clean Tromaville up by single-handedly wiping out the evil forces which contaminate the town . Mayor Belgoody ( Pat Ryan as Pat Ryan Jr . ) is as bent as they come & starts to notice a drop in his profit margins from his illegal activity , he puts pressure on the Chief of police ( David N . Weiss as David Weiss ) to find the Toxic Avenger & kill him before Toxie finds & kills them . . . Directed by Micheal Herz & Lloyd Kaufman as Samuel Weil I thought The Toxic Avenger was one seriously brain-dead film made for idiots by idiots , you can take that anyway you like considering that I actually quite liked it . The script by Joe Ritter is as stupid as you can imagine , this thing makes the Police Academy films ( 1984 - 94 ) look like the pinnacle of sophistication ! The jokes are really dumb & moronic , furthermore it stretches the boundaries of acceptability & taste . The Toxic Avenger pokes fun at blind people , beating old ladies up , running children over & going back to crush their heads while later on in the film a woman masturbates over some photographs of the incident & putting a dwarf into a washing machine & turning it on . The sort of comedy you can expect in The Toxic Avenger isn't exactly classy either like someone putting a snake down a fitness instructors top & his class copying his silly movements as he tries to grab it or Toxie's blind girlfriend Sara ( Andree Maranda ) making him a sandwich filled with Draino . Subtle obviously isn't a word in director's Herz & Kaufman's vocabulary . There is some over-the-top violence & gore , a squashed head , ripped off arm , fried hands , shotgun blasted guide dogs , intestine ripping , beatings & a bit where a guy has his head crushed by some weights but it's all rather fake looking & presented in a slapstick sort of way . Tecnically The Toxic Avenger is awful , the acting is terrible as is the cinematography , editing as continuity obviously wasn't an important issue for the filmmakers & overall production values . There are some reasonable , if cheap looking , car stunts in a brief action sequence as well . Having said all that I did actually find some of it quite amusing ( I'm not sure what that say's about me ) & in a fun sort of way it , for the most part , works as a whole . It's very well paced , something is always happening whether it's an outrageous bad taste joke or just some good old fashioned violence & gore . I can't really recommend The Toxic Avenger as a good film but it did keep me entertained throughout & that's all I was hoping for , I mean I didn't expect high art , or an educational thought provoking study of modern society did I ? ! Fun , but an acquired taste & only for those with the stomach .
Average killer creature feature .	Kaw is set in the small American town of Evermore where it's the Sheriff's ( Sean Patrick Flanery ) last day , however his last day becomes a bit of a nightmare . First he's called to a farm where a man is found dead , then reports from all over town stating that big black Ravens are attacking the population come in . The Sheriff soon realises that the Ravens have turned & are attacking & killing the residents . . . Edited & directed by Sheldon Wilson who also gets a visual effects supervisor credit one has to say I quite liked Kaw up to a certain point . The script by Benjamin Sztajnkrycer ( pronounce that if you can . . . ) takes itself pretty seriously & as everyone else has already pointed out Kaw is more or less a remake of the classic Alfred Hitchcock flick The Birds ( 1963 ) , for what it is I thought it was OK actually & better than I had expected . Unfortunately the lack of gore , the lack of consistency of the Ravens ( sometimes they attack , sometimes they just sit there , sometimes they try to break windows to enter buildings while other times they don't ) & an absolutely terrible ending which is the main aspect of Kaw that annoyed me . After the Sheriff & an assorted bunch of survivors hold up in a café & after a few hours leave as all the birds are just dying & that's it the Ravens just drop down & die which is rather underwhelming to say the least & not much of a pay-off . The idea that the Ravens have become killers because they ate the flesh of cattle infected with Mad Cow Disease is also a trifle hard to swallow & just doesn't make a lot of sense because as a disease it doesn't actually turn the carrier ' mad ' as it were . Director Wilson does alright , the film looks nice enough although I'd have liked a bit more gore . There's a scene when a Raven pecks at the top of someones head & pulls some brain matter out , a Raven is seen pecking at someones leg which is down to the bone , there are some gory cattle carcasses & there are a few dead bodies covered in blood , not much to get excited about really . The Raven themselves are a mixture of real birds & CGI computer effects & overall the special effects are very good . Obviously Ravens are pitch black so the effects don't need any detail which helps I suppose . There's a nice foreboding atmosphere for the first hour as the bird attacks increase & there are some cool shots of rows of sinister looking Ravens sat on roofs & fences just watching people walk around but it does tend to fall apart at the end as the film peters out into nothing . Technically the film is fine , it's certainly well made with decent special effects & well trained Ravens . Shot on location in Hamilton in Ontario in Canada . The acting is alright too , Rod Taylor who plays the small town Doctor here also appeared in Hitchcock's The Birds just to reinforce the connections & similarities between the two films . Kaw for the first hour or so was a really neat little nature on the rampage type horror flick but the lack of gore annoys & once Mad Cow Disease is given as a reason for the killer Ravens together with a really disappointing & flat ending it sort of falls apart . Good but could have been so much better .
Average but short 30's mystery film .	The Ghost Walks starts late on stormy night as theatrical producer Herman Wood ( Richard Carle ) & his secretary Homer Erskine ( Johnny Arthur ) are being driven from New York to Cragdale by playwright Prescott Ames ( John Miljan ) who is going to read Wood his latest play . However a fallen tree on the road prevents that as their car becomes stranded , the three decide to head to the nearest house for help & shelter . They arrive at a large mansion where Dr . Kent ( Henry Kolker ) lives , he is treating a patient named Beatrice ( Eve Southern ) who has psychological problems after the murder of her husband three years ago in that very mansion . With other assorted guests Ames , Woods & Erskine decide to stay the night but strange things begin to happen & when Beatrice is found dead it seems that there is a killer amongst them . . . Directed by Frank R . Strayer this obscure hard to find old dark haunted house type horror mystery from the 30's is alright but nothing overly special . The script by Charles Belden shoots it's load far too early for my liking , the main plot twist is revealed about 20 minutes in & isn't a bad twist at all but afterwards the films becomes a rather bog standard mystery with an extremely predictable & routine ending which I was surprised the makers went for purely because it is so obvious & because they tried to inject some mystery & suspense in the film which the ending is totally at odds with . Maybe back in the mid 30's audiences hadn't seen too many films like this but then again you would have to be pretty dumb not to figure this one out even back in the 30's . The character's are alright but the comedy relief Woods & his secretary Erskine become extremely annoying , the running gag about being stuck in a play is frankly irritating . On the bright side it only lasts for 63 minutes so at least it's short & sweet , it's watchable I suppose & will pass an hour harmlessly enough but it's not something that I think is anything special or would want to watch again anytime soon . Director Strayer does OK but of course you need to take into account the fact it was made back in the early 30's , just think about that for a moment because that's over 75 years ago . It was released on December 1st 1934 & that's literally a lifetime ago . The scenes set outside at night during a thunderstorm are quite atmospheric but the interior scenes are dull & bland . Unfortunately I think The Ghost Walks is a public domain film & therefore the print is not going to get cleaned up anytime soon , the print quality is atrocious with a huge whacking great white line running down the right hand side of the picture for the first 15 minutes & plenty of scratches , pops , crackles & damage for the rest of it . Even if a big Hollywood company decided to release it would they bother to remaster it ? Would they really spend time , effort & money cleaning the prints up ? I seriously doubt it'll ever happen & therefore The Ghost Walks will probably alway look terrible . Being shot in the 30's this is squeaky clean without any death's , violence or profanity so it's family friendly stuff all the way . Technically the film is fine considering it was made over 75 years ago , the black and white photography is alright although as I've mentioned the quality of the prints make it sometimes hard to sit through . The acting is OK but there are a few wooden performances here , actually now I think about it there's lots of wooden performances . The Ghost Walks is an OK time waster , it passes an hour but I doubt the twists will surprise anyone these days & I doubt it'll live that long in anyone's memory either . If you can actually find a copy & can live with the bad picture quality then it's just about worth a watch .
Overrated Werewolf film , average at best as far as I'm concerned .	T . V . newswoman Karen Stone ( Dee Wallace-Stone as Dee Wallace ) has been contacted by and agreed to have a private meeting with a wanted L . A . serial killer Eddie Quist ( Robert Picardo ) , she decides to use herself as bait to trap him with the police's help . Things don't go according to plan however . Before receiving a phone call from Quist in a public call box to let her know where to go and meet him her electronic equipment fails and the monitoring police lose track of her . Quist tells Karen to go to a porno shop and wait in a booth in the back . Violent pornography plays on a screen as Karen is attacked from behind . Two policemen ( Kenneth Toby and Steve Nevil ) , having managed to re-locate Karen , burst in and shoot Eddie dead . Karen is traumatised by the event and cannot remember parts of it and decides to visit Dr . George Waggner ( Patrick Macnee ) who did a profile on Quist and was recently a guest on her T . V . programme . He suggests that she and her husband William ' Bill ' Neil ( Dee Wallace-Stones real life husband Christopher Stone ) take a break from their careers and visit the secluded retreat he has set-up that is known as the ' Colony ' . They agree and head off to the Colony which is situated on the California coast . At night Karen begins to hear an eerie howling noise . Meanwhile two of Karen's journalist friends and colleagues , Terry ( Belinda Balaski ) and Chris ( Dennis Dugan ) locate Quist's apartment and find some very strange drawings of half men half wolf creatures . They investigate further and discover that Quist's body has disappeared from the morgue , eventually the trail leads them to the Colony . After Bill has just rejected the advances of Marsha ( Elizabeth Brooks ) he is attacked by a large unknown and extremely aggressive animal . Soon everything is revealed and Karen finds out the sinister truth behind the howling noises , who Eddie Quist really is and the real purpose of why the ' Colony ' was created . Directed by Joe Dante I was very disappointed by this highly thought of film , I just can't get that excited about it . The script by John Sayles and Terence H . Winkless based on the Novel by Gary Brandner is very slow to start and is full of in-jokes and references . It picks up a little for the last half an hour or so but overall I just wasn't particularly interested in anyone or anything by this point . Why is it that a werewolf can punch through a car roof but can't escape from an old wooden barn while it's burning down ? The one thing this film does have going for it is some excellent special make-up effects from Rob Bottin and his team , Rick Baker who did the equally excellent effects for An American Werewolf in London ( 1981 ) has a credit as consultant too . The transformation scenes are impressive although there isn't a lot of blood or gore , in fact I can't really remember any . There is someone with half their face burnt off with acid and a chopped off arm and that's about it , but it's definitely the transformations that steal the special make-up effects show . There is a scene where two people start to turn into werewolves as they have sex , which is kinky I guess . It's generally well made and looks OK . The acting is fine and there are a few familiar faces in it , there's an extremely old looking John Carradine who can barely walk , Slim Pickens as the local Sheriff , Dick Miller plus director Roger Corman and screenwriter John Sayles also have small cameo's . This is also the only film that has the closing credits running over a shot of a burger being cooked on a grill , at least I think it is . Generally quite slow but there are a few good sequences in here if you stick it out to the end . Not too bad , but not brilliant either .
Dull creature feature .	It Waits starts in the Canadian wilderness deep in some forest where some cavers discover something nasty inside a newly found cave . . . Jump forward ' Two Months Later ' where forest ranger Danielle St . Claire ( Cerina Vincent ) is stuck in a watch tower on her own grieving for her dead friend who recently died in a car accident which she blames herself for , her friend & fellow forest ranger Justin Rawley ( Dominic Zamprogna ) joins her in an attempt to cheer her up & get into her bed . However they are not alone as an ancient winged creature terrorises them for reasons I have no idea about other than it's an evil creature & that's what evil creatures do for a living . . . Directed by Steven R . Monroe I thought It Waits was average at best . The script by Richard Christian Matheson , Thomas E . Szollosi & Stephen J . Cannell is rather ponderous & pedestrian , in fact the first 20 odd minutes absolutely nothing of merit happens & is a total snooze-fest . Once the creature turns up things begin to pick up although it seems to want to play games with the forest rangers & scare them although it could just as easily kill them & be done with it . We never really learn about the creature , what it is or where it came from . The character's are clichéd & dull , the dialogue isn't anything to write home about & I'll have forgotten everything about them by the end of today & I hated the boring back-story surrounding Danielle & her dead friend . This is also one of those films that spends a lot of time showing people running through a forest doing noting in particular , or that's how it felt . During the final 20 minutes the pace picks up & it becomes a half decent film although I thought it was too little too late . I don't know , I thought it was all very average , it could have been worse but it could have been better . Director Monroe does a decent job , the scenery is quite nice but but as I said there's too many shots of people walking around . There isn't much atmosphere probably because we know so little about the creature & barely see it until the end & there's no tension or proper scares either . One thing I can say about It Waits is that it has some decent if minor gore effects , while there isn't buckets of blood in it what's here is pretty good including an impalement where someone has a huge branch stuck up their bum in a scene that I'd imagine is a rip-off / homage / reference to Cannibal Holocaust ( 1980 ) , a decapitated head & their headless body & a couple of mutilated corpses . I think the gore could have been more plentiful but whats here is quite impressive . With a supposed budget of about $1 , 200 , 000 It Waits was a pretty well funded film , I have to say I'd have liked to have seen more for that sort of money . There's barely any actors in it , the special effects are used sparingly , there's no action scenes or explosions & it takes place in exactly the same location throughout so where did the money go ? I personally thought the acting was poor from everyone involved & the only character to stand out for me was Hoppy the Parrott , enough said . It Waits was average at best & a boring repetitive waste of time at worst , in reality I thought it was somewhere between the two . It's an OK way to pass the time but it's utterly forgettable & a tad dull if I'm honest .
Average 80's slasher at best .	Humongous starts on Labour Day Weekend 1946 as the Parson family hold a party at their island lodge , their daughter Ida ( Mary Sullivan ) is brutally raped by a guy named Tom Rice ( Page Fletcher ) who is then savaged by the Parson family guard dogs & then fished off by Ida who whacks him over the head with a rock several times . . . Jump forward 36 Year Later & five teenage friends Nick ( John Wildman ) , Eric ( David Wallace ) , Carla ( Janet Baldwin ) & Sandy ( Janet Julian ) are out on a yacht enjoying themselves when they run into fog & get lost . They also run into stranded boater Bert Defoe ( Layne Coleman ) , after generally being stupid they manage to crash the yacht on some rocks on the shore of a mysterious island which has sinister legends surrounding it . Stranded there they have to wait for help but it seems they are on the Parson island where some deformed monster stalks looking for food . . . This Canadian production was directed by Paul Lynch who is also credited with the title design & one has to say Humongous isn't an overly impressive film with which to spend ninety minutes of your life but by slasher standards it's not the worst example out there . The script by William Gray is your typical 80's slasher material , from the teen victims to the isolated location to the mysterious deformed killer . It's all there . Gray seems to spend a lot of the time on the killers back-story & the teens working out the mystery , the problem is any seasoned slasher fan will be way ahead of both Gray & his character's . To be fair the script itself isn't really any worse than any other 80's slasher although there are a few poor decisions which ultimately sink Humongous . For a start there is a criminal lack of blood or gore , there simply isn't any sort of pay-off for sticking with it , the character's are pretty faceless & have no real development to the extent that I found it hard to know who was who simply because most of them had no discernible personality or features , the way the kids end up on the island is contrived to say the least & the vast majority of the film is spent showing these teens wander around the island for what seems like an eternity . I must admit I did think the film opened quite well with a brutal rape & death but that's as good as it gets I'm afraid , it's pretty much all downhill after that & the film never recapture the brutality of sleaziness of that opening sequence . The kills are unimaginative & mostly off screen too which doesn't help . Also I am wondering why is the film called Humongous ? There doesn't seem to be any reason I can think of as to why it's called Humongous at all . Director Lynch ruins any chance the script might have had , everyone but everyone who has seen & commented on Humongous mentions the fact that it is so dark which it is . The daytime scenes are fine so it's not just bad VHS tapes or prints Lynch just must have made a monumental misjudgement with his lighting . The last twenty minutes in particular are so frustrating to watch & more often than not you find yourself looking a totally black screen . I can't see anyone watching Humongous & not noticing how dark & frankly unwatchable it is . Released in the US in both ' R ' rated & ' Unrated ' versions the opening rape & killing of Tom is as graphic as it gets , all of the subsequent murders happen off screen , a mummified corpse is seen , three bodies are seen on meat hooks , there's a bit of blood , someone is impaled on a signpost & , well , that's it . Basically there's a lot of film of teenagers running around with very little reward . All the slasher clichés are here , Lynch often films from the point-of-view of the killer , people jump out of the dark to scare their mates , loud noises are heard at tense moments & the teens keep on separating which makes it easier for the killer . The killers face is only ever shown right at the end although I am not sure if that was on purpose or the fact that it's so dark you can't see anything anyway . There is one odd scene though when a girl collects blueberries & then uses her breast's squished together as a natural ' plate ' to carry them on ! Then after she notices her mate is cold she undoes her top to expose her breast's & lies on top of him in an effort to warm him up ! Technically the film is alright , it's well made I suppose but there's not much style . Apparently filmed on location in Ontario in Canada . The acting is alright considering it's an 80's slasher but no-one in this has exactly gone on to be stars which isn't surprising . Humongous ( Why Humongous ? Why ? ) is an average sort of 80's slasher , the whole deformed killer on an isolated island set-up is quite neat & fairly well done but it was just too uneventful to maintain ones interest for over ninety minutes .
Average Quincy episode .	Quincy M . E . : A Question of Time starts as LA coroner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) is called to the ' Thalep Clinic ' alternate mental therapy centre where a patient named Tom Holloway ( John Alderson ) has been found dead , back in the lab after the autopsy Quincy comes to the conclusion it was either heatstroke or drowning but the body was found on a sun-bed so he couldn't have drowned . Lt . Monahan ( Garry Walberg ) feels the clinics manager Bridges ( Rudy Solari ) is lying about the circumstances surrounding Holloway's death & Quincy agrees with him , despite pressure from the Thalep groups slimy lawyer Walter Kingman ( Peter Mark Richman ) who doesn't want any bad publicity for the organisation Quincy sticks to his guns & is determined to discover the truth . . Episode 4 from season 3 this Quincy story was directed by Ray Danton & is a fairly average Quincy episode , I didn't think it was amongst the show's better stories . The main problem I have with A Question of Time is the basic plot , it's just not that interesting & there's not much of a mystery to solve either . The bad guy's fold like a cheap suit far too easily at the end & admit the truth when if they kept their mouth's shut they might have gotten away with it . The whole issue of alternate therapeutic programs is brought up but nothing is done with it & surprisingly for an episode of Quincy it doesn't really try to say anything either way . Also , the medical science used in A Question of Time is pretty ropey & a single hair in a bath tub only proves someone was in that tub & not that they specifically drowned in it , right ? The one bright aspect of A Question of Time is the humour , it can be quite funny at times & there's some amusing sparring between Quincy & Monahan as they argue various points . I also liked the scene when Quincy gives it both barrels to a lazy Doctor who has been issuing repeat prescriptions without seeing the patient , the guy is just great at delivering passionate speeches & criticizing bureaucrats ! Unusually just after the opening credits there is an on screen disclaimer that says the events , people & places in A Question of Time are entirely fictitious & not based on any real person or organisation which I have never seen in an episode of Quincy before , I suppose the makers were covering their backs . There is a hilarious scene in this where there are various hot-tubs with people inside them who are told to shout as loud as they can everything which makes them feel bad , from people shouting they hate their lives & jobs to their bodies & daughters this is an unintentionally funny moment & it's no wonder Quincy looks so puzzled when he witnesses it ! Also during this scene there are several men in the same hot-tub together which gives it a certain awkward gay feel . The acting is good by the regulars , the guest stars do alright & experienced actor Peter Mark Richman who plays a lawyer in this appeared in Friday the 13th Part VIII : Jason Takes Manhattan ( 1989 ) , the only reason I mention it is because I need to pad this comment out a bit & I'm one of the few people to actually like Friday the 13th Part VIII . A Question of Time is an average Quincy episode saved by some nice humour , the actual mystery elements of this story just aren't that good .
OK moralistic Quincy episode .	Quincy M . E . : A Question of Death starts as Los Angeles coroner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) is called to officially pronounce a twenty one year old motorbike accident victim named Jack Murphy dead at Doctors Hosital so his kidneys can be given to someone else . Jack has an organ donor card on him & his parents sign a consent form in the belief that their son is dead . Quincy rushes over there & after looking at Jack's medical records & hearing other doctors opinions he agrees that technically Jack is brain dead , the machines keeping Jack alive are stopped & his kidney taken . Scumbag ambulance chasing lawyer Raymond Morrison ( Granville Van Dusen ) convinces Jack's grieving parents that the doctors stopped the machinery keeping him alive prematurely in order to kill him & take his kidney for another patient , all the doctors involved are sued in a landmark case & it's up to Quincy to prove they did the right thing . . . Episode 10 from season 4 this Quincy story was directed by Ray Danton & one has to say A Question of Death is stacked full of moral & social issues & sometimes forgets about entertaining the viewer . Lots of topics are covered here , from stopping the machines that keep brain dead patients alive to organ donation & from the compensation culture that is so evident in todays society to certain patients getting preferential treatment because of who they are & what they can do to the grey area in the law in which the definition of death is open to interpretation . There's a pretty decent story here somewhere , it raises a few relevant issues none more so than the keeping of brain dead patients alive by machinery which is still a pretty emotive & delicate issue even now . However I don't think these overly preachy & heavy-handed moralistic Quincy episodes are as good as the old fashioned murder mystery ones & as such A Question of Death isn't one of my favourite episodes from the show but I did think it was better than a lot of the moralistic episodes . In this episode we learn that Quincy uses a laundrette to wash his clothes & he doesn't know how to properly . The acting is alright from all involved . A Question of Death is an OK moralistic Quincy episode , it's not one of the show's finest fifty minutes but it's far from the worst .
Average Quincy episode .	Quincy M . E . : Aftermath starts as Columbia Airlines flight 788 to Los Angeles carrying 121 passengers crashes just outside the city , Los Angeles medical examiner Quiny ( Jack Klugman ) is one of the first on the scene & is horrified at the devastation . All the bodies are collected & taken to the pathology laboratories for autopsy & identification while John Wiggins ( John Larch ) & his team of air crash investigators get to work on figuring out what happened . Due to the badly mutilated bodies Quincy is having a hard time identifying anyone & several autopsy results reveal some surprising findings about the cause of the crash & wider issues with those involved in it . . . Episode 16 from season 4 this Quincy story was directed by Tony Mordente & is alright but I thought was lacking a certain something overall . Obviously revolving around the aftermath of a plane crash the main story focuses on several of the unlucky passengers , be it Quincy having trouble identifying one of them & as such the insurance company won't pay his widow & child , one of the cabin crew had traces of a drug called asatol which helps Quincy solve the mystery of how the plane crashed all on his own & the fact three dead passengers all had lung cancer from being exposed to dangerous substances & chemicals where they worked . So really the plane crash is nothing more than a spring board for several of these little sub plots none of which are overly great & the program ends fairly abruptly with all the loose ends hurriedly tied together at the end in Danny's with Quincy explaining so & so did that & such and such are doing this . As a whole Aftermath is a bit fragmented as it tries to juggle it's various bland sub plots which have all arose because of the plane crash & I am not convinced Quincy would be able to solve why the plane crashed all on his own where a full team of investigators couldn't . Also one has to say what on earth was a medical examiner & coroner doing investigating why the plane crashed anyway ? It's not exactly part of his job description is it ? Not know for it's style there's a surprisingly effective shot at the start of Aftermath as Quincy is flown to the plane crash site in a helicopter & the camera is placed inside with him & there's a nice looking sequences where we get to see the crash site from inside the helicopter as it flies in & circles the site , it's a fairly long & impressive sequence which is quite imaginative for a cheap TV show . The acting is alright but as usual the regulars as far better than the guests , veteran actor Burr DeBenning makes the first of his two Quincy guest appearances & is someone I always remember from The Incredible Melting Man ( 1977 ) ! Aftermath is an alright episode of Quincy , I don't think it's a classic & by the generally very high standards of season four isn't great in that respect either . Fans of the show should like it but the story was too bitty for me .
" This time Quincy is the other guy ! " An OK moral episode .	Quincy M . E . : An Act of Violence starts as seventy-two year old Vivian Chalmers ( Leoda Richards ) is attacked , robbed & beaten to death by two teenage thugs . Los Angeles coroner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) is called in , Lt . Monahan ( Garry Walberg ) says they have a ' crib job ' on their hands . Shocked by the level of violence Quincy goes into detective mode to catch her killers , after visiting her apartment looking for forensic clues Quincy becomes the victim of a crib job himself . Quincy is robbed & badly beaten which leaves him with several cracked ribs & plenty of bruising , but while the physical scars may heal in time the emotional ones Quincy has suffered from the attack may take a lot longer as being the victim of a violent crime changes his personality . . . Episode 22 from season 8 this is probably the last half way decent Quincy episode before it finished since the last two Whatever Happened to Morris Perlmutter ? ( 1983 ) & The Cutting Edge ( 1983 ) are both awful . Written & directed by Michael Braverman An Act of Violence follows the recent trend of Quincy episodes & tackles a serious moral issue , what makes An Act of Violence better than the majority of season eight is that it's a message that is still relevant today as it points out that although a victim of crime's physical scars may heal their mental & emotional ones may not . Luckily for Quincy he has a psychiatrist for a wife & a homicide detective for a mate so he's got it made really but not everyone is so fortunate ! Then there's the fact that the story actually revolves around Quincy himself rather than have him set a storyline up for someone else & then disappear from the episode , the fact that he has to use his medical & forensic skills & expertise on himself to catch his own muggers is a neat idea as well . There's also an unintentionally hilarious moment at the end when Quincy faces up to the guy who mugged him ( who never changes his clothes ) & Quincy who is a 60 plus year old man roughs up a mid 20's killer ! Most of the time these Quincy episodes haven't dated too badly but in the case of An Act of Violence there is a part early on as Lt . Monahan attends a crime scene wearing what looks like a bright yellow cardigan ! Is that how all homicide detectives dressed back then ? There is also a sequence in An Act of Violence in which Quincy is beaten up , I must admit I've always liked the guy & felt a little sorry for him at this point even if the scene was quite funny in a dated early 80's sort of way . An Act of Violence was the last appearance for Danny the bar owner in Quincy since the character doesn't feature in either of the two remaining episodes . One also has to say that I was surprised when Monahan mentioned the term ' crib job ' to Quincy & he seemed puzzled like he had never heard of it before & Monahan has to explain what it means , I say I'm surprised because back in season three there was an episode actually called Crib Job ( 1978 ) which obviously dealt with the issue . An Act of Violence is at least watchable & better than a lot of the generally awful season eight , at least it has a strong relevant storyline where Quincy is in the thick of the action . Worth a watch for fans of the series .
OK moralistic episode .	Quincy M . E . : A Loss for Words starts early one morning as nineteen year old manufacturing worker Timmothy Hurley ( Sean Kelly ) is told by his boss Mr . Droyden ( Ramon Bieri ) to weld some metal , unfortunately due to being unable to read the warning signs Hurley lights the blow torch in a flammable area which blows him & the factory to kingdom come . After the autopsy Los Angeles corner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) confirms that Hurley died from massive burn injuries & after an extensive field investigation by Arnold Chatham ( Gerald S . O'Loughlin ) it becomes clear Hurley died because he could not read the warning signs , after some investigation of his own Quincy is shocked to discover how widespread the problem of illiteracy actually is in America . . . Episode 14 from season 8 this Quincy story was directed by Georg Fenady & as far as one of the preachy heavy-handed moralistic episodes go A Loss for Words isn't too bad . A Loss for Words actually reminds heavily of another Quincy story from season eight called Guilty Until Proved Innocent ( 1983 ) two episodes ago with it's basic plot about a factory / warehouse being blown up as the basis to tackle a moral issue . A lot of Quincy episodes which based themselves around a moral issue have dated pretty badly & have become very irrelevant when viewed today but A Loss for Words does tackle a problem which is still widespread in the year 2008 , namely illiteracy & not being able to read . It's said that schooling isn't what it should be these days & I would suspect that illiteracy is still much more common than it should be , I mean just look at some of the comments which are left on the IMDb reviews section & message boards as I'd say that on it's own proves most people can't even construct a proper sentence ! Besides the moral issues & how not being able to read can affect someone A Loss for Words also has quite a decent mystery angle to it with Quincy & field investigator Chatham trying to nail Droyden for murder . The explosion at the start looks really cheap but otherwise this is Quincy as usual , it's competently made but with no sense of style . Most episodes of Quincy are a little far fetched at times but A Loss for Words really takes the cake , I'm not being funny but how could a man who has a high profile job with lots of responsibility as a field investigator examining crime scenes & the like manage to keep his job without being able to read ? I'm sorry but are we meant to believe that there hasn't been a single instance in Arnold's whole career until now that hasn't called for him to read some sort of paperwork or memo or a persons name or anything like that on the spot ? Also one has to say that to get a case involving a man who died because he can't read is a bit of a coincidence , isn't it ? The acting is alright but like always the regulars are much better than the guest stars . A Loss for Words is an OK Quincy episode , it's watchable , it's better than a lot of season eight & it's moral story actually still has some relevance in todays society which is not always the case with these types of Quincy episodes . A decent episode but not any sort of classic .
Didn't do much for me , OK but nothing special in my opinion .	The Outlaw Josey Wales is set during the Civil War & starts as Missouri farmer & family man Josey Wales ( director Clint Eastwood ) house is burnt to the ground & his family killed by renegade soldiers , he is slashed across the face & left for dead but he isn't & he joins William ' Bloody Bill ' Anderson's ( John Russell ) gang . . . Jump forward to near the end of the Civil War & Bill dies , his gang is the last to accept amnesty from the Union to stop their fighting . The gang , but not Josey , decide to accept the Union's most generous offer but the Union think they are better off dead & shoot them all despite Josey Wales best attempt to save them . The Union send Captain Terrill ( Bill McKinney ) & ex outlaw Fletcher ( John Vernon ) to find & kill Josey as well as putting a large reward on his head which means his journey to Mexico becomes a perilous one . . . Staring & directed by Clint Eastwood who replaced Philip Kaufman as director which was a controversial move & prompted the DGA to rule that no current cast or crew could replace a director on a film & has since been known as the ' Eastwood Rule ' , anyway The Outlaw Josey Wales is considered to be a classic amongst many but that's not a feeling which I share as I thought it was a touch dull . The script by Philip Kaufman & Sonia Chernus was based on the novel ' Gone to Texas ' by Forrest Carter & is as much a drama as a traditional Western which is fine if you like watching films that last for well over two hours where not that much actually happens , to me it just felt like Wales on horse back riding from one situation to another without much purpose to it . I couldn't really get into it , I didn't like the character's that much , I didn't think the story was anything special & it's pretty slow going at times with a run time that lasts over two hours . I don't know why really but I just sat there watching it & just not being able to get into the story or particularly caring about what was going on , I thought it was alright for sure but just not the solid gold classic I had been lead to believe . Overall a bit of a disappointment as I expected better . Director Eastwood does a fine job although it's likely that some of Kaufman's footage he shot before he was replaced found it's way into the final cut with some impressive cinematography which utilises the barren landscapes & the period detail . There's not much action in this one , no one other than Wales seems able to shoot straight as Wales blows everyone away with out much trouble . As I said this feels more like a drama set in the wild west rather than an action packed shoot ' em up . The violence is kept to a minimum with a few bloody gunshot wounds & nothing else . Technically the film is very good with good period detail & production values , set in Texas it was shot mostly in Arizona & Utah . The acting is fine by all involved . You wouldn't have thought The Outlaw Josey Wales would have much in common with Killer Klowns From Outer Space ( 1988 ) but both Royal Dano & John Vernon who appear in this featured in Killer Klowns From Outer Space . From The Outlaw Josey Wales to Killer Klowns From Outer Space , there's not that much difference there . The Outlaw Josey Wales is an average Western as far as I'm concerned but i could easily see how someone might like it much more , I just couldn't get into the story or character's that much unfortunately . Followed by The Return of Josey Wales ( 1986 ) with Michael Parks taking Eastwood's staring & directing duties .
" What's the matter Quincy ? You look like you've seen a ghost . " Average episode .	Quincy M . E . : A Ghost of a Chance starts as Harold Markham ( Tom Stuart ) goes under the surgeon's knife for what was meant to be a simple heart bypass procedure , however a few hours later Markham complains of intense chest pains & despite the doctor's best efforts dies shortly after . Harold's brother Ted ( Nicolas Coaster ) is unimpressed by heart surgeon Dr . Stanley Royce's ( Jose Ferrer ) explanation about complications & pays his 575 dollars and 18 cents to the county coroner's office so an autopsy can be performed to discover the truth , Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) is on the case & finds out that the surgical technique used on Harold differs from the specialist procedure which Royce is well known for . Quincy believes that Harold was operated on by a ' ghost surgeon ' , an inexperienced intern as opposed to a qualified surgeon who was supposed to operate & in this case happens to be Royce an old friend of Quincy's . Quincy does all he can to uncover the truth & get justice for the Markham's . . . Episode 2 from season 8 this Quincy story was directed by Ray Danton & I must admit I'm starting to become a little bit concerned about season 8 even in this it's early stages because there has been two episodes & both have been pretty poor . I must admit that before I saw this episode I had never even heard the term ghost surgery , I mean I'd heard of ghost writing & Ghost Rider ( ! ) but not ghost surgery . To be brutally honest I don't particularly believe it's a problem , certainly not here in the UK & I just couldn't get into the story because I couldn't relate to it at all . Then there's the fact that I like Quincy when he's running around shouting at bureaucrat's & solving crimes both of which have been sadly lacking during the first two episodes of season 8 , in fact barely any screen time has been devoted to Quincy solving a crime . What we've been left with are two misjudged moralistic episodes which just don't work , I'm sorry but I'm a huge fan of the show & to me this just isn't Quincy & I hope the show gets back on track soon . This story is pretty predictable , has an inappropriate happy ending & comes across as rather dull . This episode looks alright , there are a couple of surgery scenes but nothing graphic . There's a bit more romance between Quincy & Emily as she show's him her none existent guitar playing skills & she gives a stupid psychological explanation to the story when Quincy asks her opinion . The acting here is alright with Star Trek : The Next Generation's ( 1987 - 1994 ) Jonathan Frakes making his second Quincy appearance having changed careers from a cocaine dealing murderer in The Face of Fear ( 1982 ) to a heart surgeon in this ! A Ghost of a Chance is an average Quincy episode at best , the always excellent Klugman still makes it a worthwhile watch for fans but a silly basic premise & a lack of crime solving means this episode isn't anything to shout about . Hopefully season 8 will improve .
Average Quincy episode .	Quincy M . E . : For the Benefit of My Patients starts as a 44 year old man involved in a serious automobile accident is seen to by Dr . Danny Varney ( George Deloy ) at Terrace Hospital , unfortunately the man has no medical insurance & therefore cannot pay for his treatment so the hospital administrator & owner Dr . Chet Rawlings ( James Karen ) orders him to be transfered to the county hospital . The man is badly hurt & dies on his way , the next morning & Los Angeles coroner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) does the autopsy & realises the man wouldn't have died if he had been given proper treatment at Terrace . Then the same situation happens again , only this time an 18 year old gang member is stabbed & dies shortly after arriving at the county hospital after being refused treatment at Terrace . Enraged Quincy is determined to put an end to Rawlings policy & stop him from buying another community hospital & turning it into a money making machine . . . Episode 10 from season 5 this Quincy story was directed by Jeremiah Morris & in my opinion is average Quincy at best , I mean it's not totally terrible but I certainly wouldn't rank it amongst my favourite episodes . The script features a very American phenomenon , certainly here in the UK we have the NHS which gives free hospital treatment to anyone living here day or night . The whole story revolving around having to pay for medical care is really hard for me to relate to since it does not & never has been part of British culture . Of course that's not the fault of the writers , it's because I live in a different country which has different rules so the basic story of For the Benefit of My Patients is somewhat lost on me although still sound in principal . I can certainly see why it would be a very emotive issue , I can see why the Quincy production team decided to make an episode revolving around the price of medical care but as I have said I can't really relate to it that well . Then there's the fact most of the things I like about Quincy as a series are missing here , there's no murder , there's no mystery , there's no twists or turns & the story has a rather unwanted routine & predictable feeling . Hell , there isn't even much humour in it . Overall this is not an episode which will live that long in my memory . For the Benefit of My Patients opens like a lot of Quincy episodes with a gag about the coffee Dr . Asten provides his staff , in this case Quincy is angered when Asten takes away the free coffee to be replaced with vending machines on every other floor . Speaking of Dr . Asten there's a nice rare character developing scene where he confides in Quincy how his dad died & why he wanted to get into forensic pathology . There's some really suspect police procedures here , Lt . Monahan actually brings three young thugs into Dr . Varney's hospital room after he had been beaten up so he could identify them ! Yeah right , wouldn't a formal identification be made at the police station with Varney behind a see through mirror so his attackers wouldn't know who were possibly sending them to jail ? Also , why did Varney say that the three thugs didn't attack him when it clearly was ? The acting is alright , Klugman is on top form as usual & a joy to watch his performance . For the Benefit of My Patients is average Quincy , there's not much here to get excited about to be honest . The moral issue is sound enough I suppose but with no murder , no mystery , no humour , a predictable plot with an all too neatly tied up happy ending & some questionable police work there's little here to recommend .
Average Quincy episode .	Quincy M . E . : By the Death of a Child starts at about 4 O'Clock in the morning as Dr . Asten ( John S . Ragin ) & two state department officials Bay & Harris climb aboard Los Angeles chief medical examiner Quincy's ( Jack Klugman ) boat waking him up . It's an emergency , the small independent island country of San Cristos is in crisis . The countries babies are dying , having recently opened up to Western & American ideals the superstitious locals are blaming the diphtheria vaccines recently supplied by the US . The countries prime minister Harland DeVille ( Robert Loggia ) is under pressure to renounce all things American while it's Quincy's job to prove that the vaccine isn't responsible for the death's . With political & emotional tensions running high can Quincy step in & save the babies & prevent a full blown bloody civil revolution at the same time . . . Episode 3 from season 5 this Quincy story was directed by Allan Cooke & I have to say I wasn't that impressed with it although it's still perfectly entertaining & watchable . Here Quincy is caught in the politics of a situation which he handles like when he comes up against bureaucracy , basically shout at everyone & bang heads together until things get done & it's always fun to see Klugman on top form put in another blinding performance as he passionately fights against red tape for what's morally right . However other than that there's not much here in By the Death of a Child to recommend , there's no murder , there's no great mystery , the solution is all too obvious & apart from a bit of red tape all too easily achieved . I mean form the moment you know the scenario you know that Quincy will save the children , prove the US innocent of any wrong doing & generally save the day . At only fifty minutes in length at least it's short enough not to become boring but even though I only saw it a few hours ago I can barely remember anything about it . Here we see the cheapest staged revolution & civil war ever put on film , in fact we don't see anything other than the guy from the state department saying there is one so we have to take his word for it ! There's a silly little continuity error in the script here , at the start Quincy clearly moans about being woken up at 4 O'Clock but then about half way through he moans at Harris that he woke him up at 2 O'Clock . It's not a huge mistake but it did sort of bug me in a nerdy sort of way . Despite San Cristos apparently having very little American influence it's amazing how many of their people walk around in American suits & ties . . . I was never convinced that Quincy was working on a small isolated island country . The acting is alright , Ina Balin makes the third of her five Quincy guest appearances here while Robert Loggia went to star in many a film & telly programme & even got nominated for an Oscar . By the Death of a Child isn't a classic Quincy episode , it's rather unbelievable & a little bit too routine & predictable for my liking & the lack of a murder or a mystery doesn't help . Not bad but not great .
Decent Quincy episode .	Quincy M . E . : Cover-Up starts at a bowling alley where Robert Keane suffers a heart attack , the paramedics are called & they treat him at the scene . The paramedics are ordered to take the patient to Dr . Danner's Emergency Clinic where Dr . Alan Drew ( Nicholas Hormann ) & nurse Margaret Aldred ( Margaret Ladd ) are supposed to be on duty , however Dr . Drew had a date with a lady & left his buddy Dr . Tate Edmunds ( Michael Durrell ) in charge . Unfortunately Edmunds has no experience of emergency room procedure & due to a mistake made by him the patient dies , realising they could be in big trouble Edmunds , Drew & the clinic's owner Dr . Paul Danner implement a cover-up . However Margaret feels uneasy about the situation & goes to her uncle Los Angeles coroner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) to express her concerns , after learning of the cover-up Quincy is shocked & sets out to bring those responsible for an unnecessary death to justice . . . Episode 15 from season 5 this Quincy story was directed by Paul Stanley & to be honest isn't a particularly bad episode but at the same time isn't a particularly great one , it's just rather average in the grand scheme of things . Here the Quincy production team decided to tackle the social issue regarding unqualified Doctor's in Hospital emergency rooms & that there are no statutory laws requiring them to have any special training , experience or even proper qualifications . The sentiment is all well & good & if you add that to the basic mystery element of the episode as Quincy tries to uncover the truth of what happened through medical science in order to get justice & try to prevent it happening again then Cover-Up isn't a bad way to spend fifty odd minutes I suppose . The problem is I like the more murder mystery orientated Quincy episodes & since Cover-Up doesn't have a murder in it there's obviously no murder mystery so be solved & therefore Cover-Up doesn't rate as one of my favourite episodes . There's a running subplot during this episode in which Quincy is challenged by Danny to try & find the secret ingredient of his special sauce which becomes a cheesy running gag throughout the episode . As usual the episode is well made but unremarkable . The one thing of note that I did notice is that nurse Margaret played by Margaret Ladd seemed to be dubbed on quite a few occasions , her voice just sounds odd & very high pitched for no apparent reason & her mouth movements don't quite match what she's saying a few times . The acting is pretty good with Klugman again putting in a fine performance . Cover-Up is a pretty good Quincy episode considering that it doesn't actually have a murder in it , despite this there's still enough here to enjoy & pass fifty odd minutes .
Average ' making of ' documentary .	The Making of ' Kill Bill ' is a 22 minute long documentary that is found on just about every Kill Bill : Vol . 1 DVD ever released anywhere so it's not hard to find & it was made for TV so I'd imagine a lot of people saw it that way . This was obviously made before the films were released & is nothing more than a dull promotional piece that aired on TV to generate interest , there's nothing of any great surprise here . A few of the cast say how good it was working with Quentin Tarantino & the man himself speaks about the films origins & the ideas behind it . He talks a little about the music including a long dull anecdote & where the film was shot . The action & martial arts scenes barely get a mention , there's no real making of secrets revealed & the gory special effects aren't mentioned once . There's nothing on the films style including the Anime section & generally speaking this is as forgettable as they come . Nothing is said about why they ended up cutting the film in half & you feel most of the participants at the time of the interviews hadn't even seen the finished film yet . As a free extra on a DVD it's good value but as a making of documentary this fails badly , the only interest is seeing a few brief behind the scenes clips & that's really the only thing going for it . A disappointment which tells the viewer virtually nothing about the Making of ' Kill Bill ' which I'd hope was the whole point .
Average Quincy episode .	Quincy M . E . : Death Casts a Vote starts as a young woman named Felicia Aspenosa ( Migdia Chinea-Varela ) finds her fiancé David Brady dead in his car in his garage . Lt . Monahan ( Garry Walberg ) & Los Angeles coroner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) are called in , at first it appears like a straight forward case of suicide by Carbon Monoxide poisoning but Brady's father ( Robert F . Simon ) begs Quincy to investigate further as he is convinced his son would not commit suicide . Quincy finds out that David worked for a workers union called the ' Farm Workers Alliance ' & that a rival union called ' The Labour of Brotherhood ' run by Tony Gordon ( James Gregory ) might have a strong motive for murder , as Quincy digs deeper he discovers that David was murdered but he can't find any motive as to why . . . Episode 5 from season 3 this Quincy story was directed by Ron Satlof & isn't one of the show's best ever 50 odd minutes . Here in the UK workers unions aren't that powerful & pretty much a thing of the past & therefore I found it really hard to relate to the story , I found it hard to relate to the fact these unions featured in this episode have any power whatsoever & the basic concept just didn't interest me that much . The murder mystery here is alright , it starts off looking like a suicide & Quincy in his usual methodical way & medical expertise proves that it wasn't although there's a lot of co-incidences & the plot isn't that great . I also thought the identity of the killer was far too obvious , I worked it out pretty early on to be honest . Even at 50 odd minutes in length this one seemed to go on for quite a long time & isn't as fast moving as some Quincy episodes . I like the show in general so I thought it was watchable if nothing else but if your not a fan of the show then Death Casts a Vote won't change your opinion of it . Despite featuring quite heavily during the 15 minutes Monahan then suddenly disappears & he isn't seen at all again during this episode , strange . Unusually Danny doesn't feature at all in this episode either although there's still time for a cheesy happy ending with a bad joke . The same point & shoot technique is employed here as in every other episode of Quincy I've ever seen , it certainly isn't going to win any awards for style . The acting is alright , the regulars are good but the guest cast are merely average . Death Casts a Vote is an OK Quincy murder mystery episode , it's not the show's best but it's not the show's worst either . Fans of the series will like it , those who aren't fans of the series probably won't & it's as simple & straight forward as that .
Good episode let down by a terrible ending .	Quincy M . E . : No Way to Treat a Patient starts as Los Angeles coroner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) meets up with his old friend Tony Carbo ( A Martinez ) who is working at the Sunset Memorial Hospital . While working the late shift a man stumbles in with a gunshot wound to his lower back , Dr . Carbo treats him & sends him off to a bigger better equipped Hospital for an operation . However by the time the man gets there he is dead & suddenly has another bullet wound in his back , the man ends up on Quincy's autopsy table & he can't believe the medical records written by Carbo only list one bullet wound . Not the most popular doctor Carbo is accused of negligence & not noticing the second gunshot wound . . . Episode 22 from season 5 this Quincy story was the final one from the fifth season & it was great until the last few minutes . For the majority of No Way to Treat a Patient there's a pretty good murder mystery & one of Quincy's friends is accused of incompetence so there's a couple of nice plot threads running through the episode but just as it starts to get good & the episode starts to get going we cut to Danny's bar at the end & Quincy merely says the killers were caught & Carbo was cleared . There's no investigation , there's no real detective work & the ending is just very unsatisfying all round as if the production team knew they were running out of time & just had to resolve the episode as quickly as possible . I liked the story about two assassins posing as ambulance drivers too , it's a shame that more couldn't be made of it . There's some funny scenes here , the authoritarian Nurse Miss Russell is played almost entire for laughs & she has a thick Scottish accent & at times sounds like Edward Woodward from The Wicker Man ( 1973 ) ! Her & Quincy's arguing at the start is pure gold . You know I have always been surprised that more character's don't return to Quincy but here in No Way to Treat a Patient I think one does , or then again maybe he doesn't . You see Quincy & Dr . Carbo recognise each other & even mention the University , Dr . Carbo is played by A Martinez who starred in the Quincy two parter Walk Softly Through the Night ( 1979 ) from season four in which he played a student studying to become a doctor in University but in those two episodes his character's name was Marty Herrera so why the change of name ? Is he meant to be the same character or not ? If not why did Quincy recognise him & why is it made clear that they knew each other ? Strange . In this episode we get some good location footage of Sunset Strip with it's bright neon signs ( one clearly advertising ' Filthy Magazines ' ! ) , prostitutes , pimps & a strip club called The Purple Peacock ! A real document of the time , I doubt it's like that anymore . The acting is alright , oddly Quincy isn't in this one that much as there's a large twenty odd minute gap during the middle where he doesn't appear at all . No Way to Treat a Patient had potential & was going really well until one of the most abrupt endings ever , it's still worth a watch but you will feel that a large chunk of it is missing .
Quincy turns into a soap opera .	Quincy M . E . : Promises to Keep starts as it turns out that one of the medical examiners wasn't properly qualified , as a fraudulent coroner all of the cases he worked on need to be redone & Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) & Sam ( Robert Ito ) get the job on-top of their already large workload . All this work is affecting Quincy's love-life & relationship with his long term girlfriend Lynne Montgomery ( Sharon Acker ) , realising that she loves Quincy Lynne proposes but Quincy turns her down at first . The situation reminds Quincy of his wife Helen ( Anita Gillette ) who died from a brain tumour . . . Episode 19 from season 4 this Quincy story was directed by Harvey Laidman & is more of a soap opera rather than a traditional murder mystery or social message themed story . This episode is split between the present & flashbacks to the past which give the viewer a rare insight into Quincy's life & in particular his first wife . I didn't like this one that much at all to be honest , seen in isolation out of the rest of the series Promises to Keep will make little sense to anyone , you need to know about the character's to understand it but even then it's fairly forgettable stuff . Promises to Keep also messes around with the show's continuity & history , it is said that Lynne & Quincy have been in a relationship for four years which is odd because during lots of episodes in season four Quincy has different girlfriends . There's a really minor murder case that Quincy investigates but it's piratically an afterthought & Promises to Keep has maybe the most abrupt ending of any Quincy episode I've seen . The one thing of note in Promises to Keep is that Anita Gillette plays Helen Quincy's first wife who dies which in itself is fine , but as any fan of the series would tell you Gillette comes back to the series during season seven & Quincy actually marries her during season eight . A strange casting decision . The flashbacks are filmed soft focus & they looked a little smeary to me , these flashbacks take place literally years prior to the events in Promises to Keep although Quincy looks just as old & the only difference is that he has a silly looking quiff hairdo ! The acting is alright in this one with Klugman again excellent as Quincy . Promises to Keep is an odd episode , it's more like an episode from a dull soap opera than a murder mystery series & it didn't do much for me . If your a fan of the series & character's then it's watchable & fleshes them out a bit but if you don't then there's little here to interest you or enjoy .
Unintentionally funny Quincy episode .	Quincy M . E . : On Dying High starts as Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) & Dr . Emily Hanover ( Anita Gillette ) are enjoying a night out together at a club , on stage is singer & comedian J . J . Chandler ( Roger Miller ) who has a unpleasant act based on bad taste jokes & songs about drugs . While out back in a break from his performance J . J . decides to ' freebase ' some cocaine near a lit cigarette , it's not long before he is on fire & runs on stage screaming . Quincy goes to his rescue & puts him out , talking to narcotics cop Sgt . Wendell & realising how many drug overdose cases he autopsies a year Quincy becomes aware of how widespread drug use is throughout society & decides he should try & do something about it . . . Episode 16 from season 8 this Quincy story was directed by Ray Danton & one has to say save for some simply hilarious & horribly dated dialogue regarding drug use On Dying High is pretty poor . Some of the dialogue here has to be heard to be believed , from slang terms & words for the taking of drugs to funny descriptions of the drugs themselves it's horribly dated , it was made for telly so the language had to be kept clean & as such all these hard drug dealers & users talk like they are in Mary Poppins or something & it just sounds silly but that's the main attraction of this episode . It's not as unintentionally funny as the classic Next Stop , Nowhere ( 1983 ) about the punk music but it comes close . There's no murder mystery here & in fact no-one ends up on Quincy's autopsy table , there's no lab work , no detective work & it's just a horribly dated moralistic episode about the dangers of drugs from alcohol to cocaine & probably just about everything between . On Dying High is also notable since it's the episode where Quincy proposes to Emily & in true Quincy fashion gets a phone call mere seconds later & has to rush off ! When all said & done there's very little in this episode to enjoy or get involved with & some hilarious dialogue just isn't enough . At the start of On Dying High J . J . does a quick comedy routine involving jokes about drugs that really isn't funny at all , he can't sing either . While in hospital after being burnt the doctor's claim that J . J . ' s vocal chords were burnt but he manages to speak normally to Quincy & anyone else who comes to see him ! I'm not being funny or anything but I would have thought that if your vocal chords had been burnt you wouldn't be able to talk since they are things which allow speech , or am I wrong ? The acting is OK but the regular cast are better than the guest's as usual . On Dying High is another poor , moralistic based Quincy episode from the generally disappointing season eight & apart from some hilariously dated dialogue there's little here to get excited about .
Potentially good episode spoilt by a poor ending .	Quincy M . E . : Last Day , First Day starts as Dr . Asten ( John S . Ragin ) introduces new trainee laboratory technician Harriett Bowlin ( Sarah Rush ) who has just arrived straight out of University , it's up to chief medical examiner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) to show her the ropes . Meanwhile forensic pathologist of over thirty years Dr . Gill Moore ( Harry Townes ) comes under pressure from his drug dealing son Tony ( Bill Beyers ) to fix an autopsy on a guy named John Rubio to make it look like he died in a car accident rather than being murdered from a huge overdose of heroin by local mobsters . Tony says the people behind Rubio's murder will kill him if he doesn't fix the results , his father agrees & lies about the autopsy findings but since Bowlin took her own samples to process as experience his plan starts to fall apart . . . Episode 3 from season 6 this Quincy story was directed by Leslie Martinson & Last Day , First Day was a really good episode until the rushed ending which spoilt everything . I liked the setting inside the laboratory & that a crime is being committed there in the way that it was , I think it's different from any other episode in the show thus far & the character of Dr . Moore was quite well conceived as someone who has integrity but ultimately has to put his son first . There's a couple of assassins in here as well , a comedy subplot about Quincy making a fool of himself at a baseball game a few days earlier , a new trainee lab technician & a Rabai . There's a fair amount going on & I suppose it's no great surprise that the production team run out of time & just when you think Dr . Moore , the assassins & Tony are all going to be exposed & caught the episode shifts to Danny's with all the regulars sitting around a table for thirty seconds of exposition where Quincy says the killers were caught & Moore lost his job which is a rather rushed & unsatisfactory way to finish the episode off after I had invested the best part of fifty odd minutes in the character's & the story . How annoying . Worth watching for sure but the rushed ending just doesn't feel right & the plot doesn't feel like it has any closure . There's a really bizarre car crash at the start of this episode which in reality would be impossible , for a start the car is pushed over the edge of a cliff & it explodes in mid air without actually touching or crashing into anything . How did that happen exactly ? Then the driver Rubio who is already dead is thrown from the wreck even though neither doors open & I also think he would have been toast since the car blew up as soon as it left the cliff edge . How did that happen exactly ? The two bumbling killers suspect that the seat beat broke . How ? Seat belts just don't break . Car doors don't just fly open for no reason . The whole sequence is very clumsily put together & thought out . Harry Townes makes the third of his four guest appearances on Quincy each time playing a doctor although different doctor's . Pete the security guard fans should take note he probably has his biggest ever role in Last Day , First Day . The acting is alright but all that painfully fake laughter at the photo slides of Quincy trying to play baseball sounds really bad & forced . Last Day , First Day was going really well until the last two minutes in which the makers try to tie everything that has happened in the episode up in the space of one thirty second conversation at Danny's & needless to say they don't pull it off satisfactorily .
" I no longer feel social interaction will be harmful . " Average 80's slasher / murder mystery , it's not too bad .	Night Screams starts as a couple named Ethan & Beth are watching a cheesy horror film ( the very thing I was doing at that point ! ) when Ethan decides he's hungry & goes outside to cook himself a burger on the barbecue , inside unknown to Ethan back inside Beth is stabbed to death . Finding her body Ethan tries to phone the police but he to is stabbed . . . Wichita , Kanas & college football star David ( Joseph Paul Manno ) has won a four year scholarship to a nice posh college in Oaklahoma where all his ' dreams ' will become a reality , nice . Before he heads off David is throwing a big party at his house for his friends . Meanwhile it has emerged that two convicts have escaped from prison & in a desperate search for shelter come across David's large , isolated country house . As David's friends gather it seems that they are far from alone as one-by-one they meet grisly ends at the hands of an unknown killer , are the convicts responsible ? Or maybe it's someone else with even more sinister motives . . . Directed by Allen Plone I thought Night Screams was an OK slasher at best & a tired clichéd rehash at worst . The script by Mitch Brian & producer Dillis L . Hart II has all the usual slasher ingredients , the isolated location , the disposable cast of annoying teens including the obligatory comic relief character , the hero , the bad guys & a steady stream of murders so if all you want is a slasher film then you could do worse than Night Screams although having said that you could do a lot better as it does nothing particularly original or outstanding to distinguish itself in an overcrowded & limited sub-genre . There are a few sub-plots that I imagine were supposed to add to the mystery but are underdeveloped & feel almost like afterthoughts , the medication that David is on that is so important to him is occasionally mentioned but never in any great detail , one of the escaped convicts talks a load of religious psycho babble but for no apparent reason , the opening murder of Beth & Ethan seem almost to be from a completely different film & the stupid way everyone falls out with each other over girls & jealously might have made for some good red-herrings but again it seems the filmmakers merely wanted to pad the film out & weren't that interested in connecting these various ideas & plot threads together to make a better film . When the killers identity is eventually revealed in a supposed twist ending their motives are slim to say the least & as a whole has little impact . Director Plone does an OK job , it's reasonably well made throughout although the scares are minimal , there isn't much build up to the killings & as a result Night Screams lacks tension during it's most important scenes . While at the party David's friends seem intent on watching porn & every so often Plone cuts to showing random clips of porn which is strange when the film is going along nicely then all of a sudden it cuts to a naked woman in a shower washing herself & paying close attention to her breasts ! The murders are OK , they're not the goriest but they're not too badly done , there are various stabbings , a poker impalement , an axe in someones head , electrocution , strangulation , death by pool cue , someone has their face grilled on a cooker , someone is suffocated with a plastic bag , someone is squashed by a car & there are some gory gunshot wounds . Technically Night Screams is pretty good , it has 80's written all over it from the hair styles & clothes to the cars & furniture but that's not really a criticism as it's a product of it's time . The cinematography , music , special effects & general production values are all decent enough . The acting is average at best but not bad enough to spoil things to any great degree . Night Screams is an OK slasher , if your a die hard slasher fan than you may like this as it's not too bad . If you just want to see the ' highlights ' of Night Screams then fast-forward straight to the end credits as for some bizarre reason it replays short clips from the film between the names , including all the murders . . .
" We'll get this place cleaned up . . . & keep it that way . " Decent Quincy episode .	Quincy M . E . : House of No Return starts in Willowdale hospital for ' Mentally Disordered Offenders ' , a place where the criminally insane are put . An inmate named Joe Barwell is found dead in his cell when he mum ( Virginia Capers ) comes to visit him , Los Angeles coroner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) performs an autopsy & is shocked at how many broken bones , scars , scratches , bruises & injuries Joe has but puts it down to the violent environment . Joe's mum Emily pleads with Quincy to investigate her son's death more throughly & claims that corrupt wardens run the facility stealing money from the inmates , keeping them addicted to alcohol & drugs as well as staging live human cock fights for money . . . Episode 11 from season 4 this Quincy story was directed Harvey Laidman & is an entertaining enough way to pass fifty minutes & again proves that as a show Quincy delivered some diverse & interesting story lines . Here Quincy has to uncover corruption & abuse by the officials at a mental hospital & solve a murder along the way just for good measure . I must admit I didn't get that involved in the story as it's one of the more far fetched episodes , I would be very , very surprised if even back in 1979 a mental institution didn't have some form of CCTV security system . Even if they didn't back then they almost certainly do today so it's sort of hard to relate with & believe the story . On a purely fiction level it's not exactly amazing either , it's alright & watchable enough but lacked a certain something & there's an all to predictable plot twist at the end which you can see coming a mile off . One more thing , when Bill Carruthers escapes from the prison hospital & ends up at Quincy's boat & Quincy hides him there surely Quincy would have been committing a crime ? Aiding & abetting a fugitive ? Harbouring a wanted criminal ? OK so he did it for the right reasons but as a public servant he should have reported Carruthers to the relevant authorities straight away & not wait until the next morning . I'm not being funny but if the chief medical examiner of Los Angeles was found to be hiding escaped convicts these days he would almost certainly be sacked on the spot , wouldn't he ? Just a thought . During this episode Quincy volunteers to go undercover in Willowdale hospital to try & gather some proof & see what the score is , I was particularly interested to note that in the medical room there was a large sign on the wall which read ' Don't Spit On The Floor ' which seemed odd to me . I mean I could understand a sign saying don't damage equipment or even spit on the doctors but for the only sign in the entire room to say don't spit on the floor just seemed a little random to me when you think about what a mentally unstable convicted criminal might actually be capable of & do . . . The start of House of No Return has a bare knuckle bare chested boxing match between two large muscular black guy's & I sat there thinking I was watching some cheap 70's blaxploitation flick with Fred Williamson , Richard Roundtree or Jim Brown ! The acting is alright in this one . House of No Return is a watchable enough Quincy episode , there's a murder & there's a decent story which allows Quincy to do some detective work but there's not much laboratory work & I felt it was lacking a certain something . Not the best episode but not the worst either .
Average name only 5th sequel , could have been much better .	A mysterious British drifter named Ian Richards ( Brendan Hughes ) wanders into the small desolate town of Canton Bluff in Southern California . After a run in with the local Sheriff named Fuller ( Gary Cervantes as Carlos Cervantes ) he finds work with the towns Reverend named Dewey ( Jered Barclay ) fixing up his run-down church . Soon after Ian's arrival , a carnival called ' Harker's world of wonder ' rolls into town . The owner R . B . Harker ( Bruce Payne ) collects freaks and shows them off to the paying public , along with various other lame fairground attractions that try to please any potential customer . Harker's latest freak is a man named Winston ( Sean Gregory Sullivan ) who has a deformity that makes his skin look like lizard scales , Harker decides to call him ' Alligator Boy ' . At first the locals of Canton Bluff seem to enjoy Harker's carnival . Ian decides to take Dewey's daughter Elizabeth ( Michele Matheson ) to the opening night . They meet Harker . Harker feels he knows Ian but cannot remember from where or when . Harker tells one of his workers , Bellamey ( Antonio Fargas ) to spy on Ian . That night the full moon causes Ian to change into a werewolf which Bellamey sees and reports back to Harker . Harker captures Ian and puts him in his freak-show . Also that night Miss Eddington ( Carol Lynley ) who owns the town's bank , disappears . The town's mayor Roger Pruitt ( Randy Pelish ) and the locals believe Ian is responsible . But it seems that Harker himself isn't quite what he appears to be at first and is in Canton Bluff for rather more sinister reasons than he leads everyone to thinks . Who is Harker ? Who is Ian ? Why are they both in Canton Bluff ? What secrets do they hide ? Who will be able to halt the sudden and somewhat startling decline in the town's population ? Watch it if you want to find out . Directed by Hope Perello this is the fifth very loosely connected sequel to the Howling ( 1981 ) and was made between Howling V : The Rebirth ( 1989 ) and Howling : New Moon Rising ( 1995 ) . As it stands Howling VI : The Freaks ain't actually that bad a film , it's just that it's not a particularly good one either . The script by Kevin Rock supposedly based on the novels by Gary Brandner ( the film gives him a ' based on ' credit at the beginning ) is just too slow . The story definitely has potential which , in my opinion , has not been fulfilled or realised for the most part . The filmmakers should have had more confidence in their abilities and should have been more adventurous as this film could have been really good , there are good parts here and there but their too few and far between , which is a shame . If this had been cut down by around 10 or 15 minutes it would have flowed a lot better and kept my interest more . Or , alternatively the filmmakers could have written in a few more horror sequences . It's over half and hour into the film before any horror of any description happens . Prior to this it's character development and exposition , like letting the viewer know that the town is holding mayoral elections which in the eventual context of the film as a whole means absolutely nothing and past the opening few minutes it's never mentioned again . The special make-up effects are surprisingly impressive , especially Winston's lizard make-up and Harker's cool vampire make-up . There isn't much blood or gore , a chicken has it's head bitten off and a torture scene where someone is poked with a spike . Vampire Harker's final death sequence is also quite cool and impressive looking . The acting is OK with Bruce Payne's performance as the main villain Harker being quite enjoyable . The film is generally well made , not outstanding but perfectly acceptable under the low-budget circumstance's . Having said that the low-budget comes through when Harker captures Ian and locks him in a cage . The cage is supposed to be made from iron bars but whenever someone touches one they wobble , shake or bend rather easily considering their supposed to be solid iron . Don't lose any sleep if you haven't seen it as it's not that good but you could do a lot worse . Worth watching if you can catch it on T . V . for free or buy it on DVD cheap . I will give it a respectable but unspectacular .
Decent Quincy episode .	Quincy M . E . : Let Me Light the Way starts as Nurse Faye Willard ( Barbara Collentine ) is attacked & raped , the latest in a long line of victims of a serial rapist . Los Angeles chief medical examiner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) & rape counsellor Carol Bowen ( Adrienne Barbeau ) are notified but once they reach the hospital Faye has died . Lt . Monahan ( Garry Walberg ) & Quincy are both sure the rapist is a man named Carl DeReatis ( Luke Askew ) but all the evidence is circumstantial & his young wife Joy ( Kim Cattrall ) keeps giving him an alibi . After both Quincy & Carol pester Joy they end up making Carl angry & he takes it out on Carol who becomes his latest rape victim , Quincy is now even more determined to nail DeReatis . . . Episode 13 from season 2 this Quincy story was directed by David Moessinger & is a pretty good solid mix between moral & social issues & some good old fashioned detective work . Here the main emphasis is on rape as a crime & that it is almost impossible to convict in a court of law , it also show's that the rape victim is open to be humiliated again in court by her attacker since she has to take the stand & answer any questions asked . I am not sure if this is still a problem or whether the laws have been tightened up & / or changed but you can see why the production team wanted to make an episode about it & try to bring the issue to the attention of the general public . I would also point out that I think the hospital procedures , or rather the lack of them , are no longer the case & I am sure rape victims are treated differently in 2008 so in that regard Let Me Light the Way has dated rather badly & could be described as somewhat irrelevant . Unfortunately these moralistic themed Quincy episodes usually have little or no interest for me & despite a commendable central premise Let Me Light the Way just isn't that much fun to watch & it's as simple & straight forward as that really . Some of the dialogue is good , the story is worthwhile but I doubt I would want to see it again anytime in a hurry . The main thing that stands out in Let Me Light the Way is the cast , for a start there's a great performance by horror icon Adrienne Barbeau in one of earliest screen roles & looking very nice & slim too , she would later go on to star in films such as The Darker Side of Terror ( 1979 ) , The Fog ( 1980 ) , Escape from New York ( 1981 ) , The Cannonball Run ( 1981 ) , Swamp Thing ( 1982 ) , Creepshow ( 1982 ) & go on to voice Catwoman in the animated Batman ( 1992 - 1995 ) TV series . She puts in a very good performance here actually , she certainly holds her own against the acting machine that is Jack Klugman & gives as good as she gets & I would say Barbeau puts in maybe the finest performance of any guest star in the entire eight seasons of the show . Sticking with the cast Let Me Light the Way also sees one of the earliest screen appearances for Kim Cattrall who is probably best know these days for a leading role in the utterly awful Sex and the City ( 1998 - 2004 ) . Let Me Light the Way is alright , it's watchable thanks to a bit of humour ( the 170mph futuristic police car scene is funny ) , a worthwhile story & some good performances but I doubt it's anything I would want to watch again in a hurry .
" After all the abuse I took , he was going to dump me for a 25 year old with an over developed chest . " Scientifically questionable Quincy episode !	Quincy M . E . : Last of the Dinosaurs starts as Los Angeles coroner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) is enjoying at drink at Danny's when he receives a call from Lt . Monahan ( Garry Walberg ) saying the famous film star & his idol Will Prestin ( Chuck Robertson ) has been found dead . Being a huge Will Prestin fan Quincy gets out there as quick as he can , Prestin's body has been found in his ransacked living room with two fairly mild blows to the head & Quincy isn't sure how he died . Back in the lab after the autopsy Prestin's cause of death still isn't any clearer since the blows to the head definitely didn't kill him on they're own , Quincy has to work fast & find out what did kill Prestin to find a killer & save two innocent lives as Monahan is convinced two junkies broke into Prestin's house & killed him which Quincy is positive didn't happen . . . Episode 12 from season 3 this Quincy story was directed by Ray Danton is a reasonable murder mystery entry into the series but there are a few things with the plot which bugged me . The old trick of using diabetes as a method for murder comes into play here , the script states that Will Prestin was a diabetic & the reason Quincy was having so much trouble discovering why he died was because of this fact & he didn't notice the needle marks because Prestin injected himself on old scar tissue from a stunt gone bad on one of his old films . First of all I will say that I have been diabetic for the majority of my life , over 20 years in fact & I inject myself on average four times a day . If Prestin had diabetes extreme enough to send him into a diabetic coma after only a few hours ( mild forms of diabetes can be treated by diet alone ) then he would probably have been injecting himself the same number of times as me . The script also states that Prestin's friend Granger had been picking up his insulin from the pharmacy for 15 years so that would mean Prestin had been injecting insulin into himself on a daily basis for at least 15 years , right ? Well even if we suppose he had injected himself once a day which I find highly unlikely that's still 365 injections times 15 which is still 5475 injections over that period . If Prestin had been injecting four times a day which is much more likely than that would be 365 times 4 which is 1460 & then you would times that by 15 which comes to 21900 ! Are the makers of this seriously trying to tell me that a pathologist as experienced as Quincy would miss all his injection sites ? Don't forget as a diabetic you can only use a few different sites on your body to inject . An old wound wouldn't be able to take over 20 , 000 separate injections , it just wouldn't . My injection sites look horrible & bruised even now & these days us diabetics have ultra fine needle pens rather than the bloody great huge syringes back in the late 70's . I suppose if you don't know much about diabetes then you probably wouldn't pick up on this but since I do know a lot about diabetes it bugged me as basically it was total bull & the whole story & twist hinged on it . Since this series was made in the 70's you have to cut it some slack & generally speaking Quincy hasn't dated too badly , sure Quincy does wear some horrible shirts with huge collars but otherwise the show still looks OK . However there are times when you can't quite believe what your seeing , for instance Sybil Prestin's hair-do . It's awful , it's some large bob with a horrible bitty fringe & two silly tufts of hair sticking out on either side of her head , I don't think I've ever quite seen another hair-do like it & frankly considering how bad it looks that's no big surprise . Also check out the little portable telly Quincy whips out at the end , the screen looks like it's the size of a postage stamp ! The acting is alright a experienced TV & film actor Cameron Mitchell has a small role . Last of the Dinosaurs is an OK Quincy murder mystery that if you examine the plot closely doesn't hold much water , then again that's probably the same with most Quincy episodes & it's just in this case I happen to know more about diabetes than the makers did .
Average Quincy episode .	Quincy M . E . : T . K . O . starts as Danny ( Val Bisoglio ) & Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) are ringside watching the young boxing contender Clarence Hester ( Robert Hardy ) take on his friend & current champion Kenny Mitchell ( Herb Jefferson Jr . ) & win the title . A few days later & Los Angeles coroner Quincy is shocked to see the body of Clarence on his autopsy table , findings show Clarence died of meningitis caused by the nasal bacteria seeping into his brain because of a badly damaged nose . Meanwhile Danny's chef Alfredo Carlotti ( Peter Schrum ) decides to have a simple hernia operation performed at an office clinic but dies due to complications & poor equipment . Upon investigation Quincy finds out that Clarence had seen a Doctor at an office clinic & that was the reason for his badly damaged nose , with two similar fatalities in a short space of time that could have been prevented Quincy sets out to get all surgical procedures regulated . . . Episode 19 from season 5 this Quincy story was directed by Lawrence Doheny & I can't really say it's one of my favourite episodes . After a boxer mysteriously dies I thought we might get another murder mystery themed episode like A Blow to the Head . . . A Blow to the Heart ( 1977 ) from season three but it never turned out that way . The episode starts off with two seemingly unconnected death's , that of the young boxer & Danny's fat chef but Quincy soon finds a connection & enraged he sets out on yet another moral crusade to fight the bureaucracy that won't regulate surgical procedures & the incompetence of Doctor's who think they can perform major surgery without the proper equipment . Yes you've guessed it T . K . O . is a very moralistic based Quincy episode with a somewhat outdated social issue at it's core & no murder mystery in sight , I really don't think the issues raised here are of much relevance today anyway . Then there's the really abrupt ending which comes out of nowhere , the story is almost only getting started when the episode finishes . I must admit I did like the running gag in this episode , Quincy's boss Asten actually gives him a pager so he can bleep him whenever he wants much to Quincy's irritation & annoyance in a rather amusing subplot . Not much to say about this episode really , it's as well made as you can expect from a 70's TV show of the period . I don't know if I should say this but wasn't Danny's chef fat ? I mean I'm not being funny here but instead of cooking the food in the kitchen by the look of the bloke he ate it all didn't he ? The acting is alright but it's Klugman who steal the show as usual in particular a rousing heartfelt speech at the end to a Government committee , this guy could really act . I am not entirely sure but I think the episode title T . K . O . refers to the boxing term The Knock Out but it's never specifically mentioned during the episode . T . K . O . isn't my favourite Quincy episode out there , the two story lines give it a bit of variety & the comedy subplot about the pager is quite amusing too . There are better episodes out there .
Horrendously overrated as far as I'm concerned .	Black Christmas is set in a girls sorority house around Christmas , one of the girls Clare Harrison ( Lynne Griffin ) is spending the festive season with her father at home but is brutally killed in her room before she meets up with him . The next morning & her dad ( James Edmond ) raises the alarm & contacts the police who organise a search where they find the dead body of a young child , meanwhile the sorority house has been receiving obscene phone calls which they tell the police about . Lieutenant Fuller ( John Saxon ) decides all the clues point the the sorority house with very good reason as there's a killer on the loose inside . . . This Canadian production was produced & directed by Bob Clark & I have to say I think Black Christmas is vastly overrated , considered by some to be the very first slasher film ever made I'd personally say it's more of a thriller although I can see why some would say that . The script by Ray Moore is very serious & tries to build tension up & remain quite taught but I have to say I was pretty bored by it . It takes ages to do anything & then we get the god awful ending , some people complain about horror films not having much of a story & Black Christmas would almost certainly give those people more ammunition as the killer is never seen , the killer's motives are never revealed neither is the basic question of who he is . I'm sorry but even Jason Voorhees & Freddy Kruger had back stories , at least they had some sort of motive no matter how flimsy it was while here in Black Christmas there is nothing . Some may like the ambiguity & sure it works well enough for most of the film but I'd have liked some sort of pay-off , some sort of explanation , some sort of twist , some sort of story behind the killer & a proper ending , you see Black Christmas doesn't so much as end as just stops . On the plus the plus side it's watchable , the character's are good & more human than in a lot of horror films although for me that's just not enough to want to sit through 100 minutes of this again . Since it was Chritsmas Day only a few days ago Black Christmas was an appropriate film to sit down & watch last night & director Clark does a really good job here & the films best asset is it's atmosphere & style , there are some great point-of-view shots from the killer's perspective & there's definitely a creepy chilly atmosphere to it . The film looks quite gritty & is far less glossy than the average Hollywood flick which helps it as well but despite some good visuals & a nice dark atmosphere I still didn't like the story & that's what really sinks Black Christmas for me . The body count is low & there's absolutely zero gore . Was it just me or did anyone else have problems understanding the obscene phone calls ? I mean the guy speaking sounding like he was doing a bad Donald Duck impression ! The ending doesn't work either on a factual level , the cops wouldn't leave Jessica alone in the house after what she had just gone through & considering what had just taken place they wouldn't have left the house anyway let alone not even bother searching the attic . Technically the film is well made & is pretty impressive , shot on location in Toronto , Ontario in Canada . The acting is fine , the likes of Kier Dullea , Ovlia Hussey , Margot Kidder & genre favourite John Saxon put in good performances . Black Christmas is considered by some to be the very first slasher film ever made which I can see why while other's claim it's the best slasher ever made which I can't agree with at all as I think it's one of the most overrated , I'm not saying it's a bad film by any stretch of the imagination it's just one that I personally didn't like & can't see why so many people do despite their reasoning . Remade by Hollywood as Black Christmas ( 2006 ) which I actually prefer as it has more of a story .
Alright Quincy episode .	Quincy M . E . : The Depth of Beauty starts late one night on top of an eighteen storey Los Angeles apartment block as forty seven year old Sheila Connors ( Joanna Patrice ) commits suicide by jumping off the roof . Los Angeles coroner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) records the death as suicide but he is puzzled & intrigued by extensive scarring on her face , after speaking to her husband ( Ryan MacDonald ) Quincy learns that his wife committed suicide because of the state cosmetic surgeon Dr . Emile Green ( Garnett Smith ) left her face in . Quincy investigates Green & discovers that he is not a trained plastic surgeon , he has left countless women dead or horribly mutilated & can get away with it as there are no provisions in the law to stop him . Outraged Quincy becomes determined to stop Green operating on people & get the inadequate laws changed . . . Episode 13 from season 4 this Quincy story was directed by Ray Danton & is alright but I can't work up much more enthusiasm up for it than that , The Depth of Beauty is more of a moral episodes where Quincy ends up on some social crusade against red tape , inadequate laws & bureaucracy . Here Quincy tackles the unlicensed cosmetic surgery trade & those who get rich from it but aren't properly trained or qualified , it's one of those stories which is hard to relate to since I really do think things have changed . In the year 2008 I just couldn't see a doctor getting away with some of the things Green does , I mean we live a ' compensation culture ' type society where we sue everyone & everything for all we can get & someone like Green just wouldn't be able to continue operating today in any civilised Western country & I firmly believe that . The murder here is by default , there's no mystery elements & one could say it's a trifle predictable . Still having said that I always enjoy watching Quincy shout at people , get angry & try to blame everyone for everything but sometimes that just isn't enough . It's OK for the type of episode it is but I wouldn't call it a classic . The Depth of Beauty is one of the very few Quincy episodes which doesn't feature Lt . Monahan at all ( despite his name still appearing in the opening credits ) , even at Danny's at the end he is oddly missing . There is a fairly effective scene in this when one of Green's victims reveals the extent of her facial injuries & scars to the camera & it's a pretty decent make-up job with lots of scars & a droopy slanted eye . The acting is alright by all involved . The Depth of Beauty is an average moralistic conscience pricking episode of Quincy , it's watchable & fine for what it is but in my opinion it's not any sort of classic .
Average Quincy .	Quincy M . E . : Science for Sale starts as terminal cancer patient Cynthia Oliver ( Kate Lardner ) gets out of bed & walks out of the hospital where she has been receiving a cutting edge genetically created treatment for her cancer . Cynthia's cancer was too far advanced & she dies near the hospital though , she ends up on L . A . coroner Quincy's ( Jack Klugman ) autopsy table & he sees nothing suspicious but learns about her revolutionary treatment developed by scientist Dr . Paul Lynn ( Lane Smith ) . Then the body of a derelict is brought in who died from a virus Quincy cannot identify , shortly after another body that ends up on Quincy's autopsy table shows the same virus . The factor that links the two bodies together is Cynthia Oliver & by messing around with genetics Dr . Lynn has created a new type of killer virus . . . Episode 7 from season 8 this Quincy story was directed by Ray Danton & is an OK episode although once again it's moral & social message gets in the way of any sort of crime solving . In Science for Sale the makers of Quincy decided to tackle the issue of genetic engineering & it's pitfalls , yeah it was a great idea to make a Quincy episode about genetic engineering while it was a relatively new process & end up with the scientists involved making a killer virus & the notion they were only in it to make money . I mean that was really going to reassure the public wasn't it ? Having said that to be fair to it this episode does say that the cancer treatment had promise & had worked to some extent , to be honest I don't know why Quincy has gone down this path where every episode so far during season 8 except Sleeping Dogs is nothing more than a 60 odd minute prick to the audiences moral sub conscious & nothing much else . Again Quincy barely features in this & apart from figuring out that the virus was made by Dr . Lynn doesn't do anything , dull , dull , dull . This one has dated pretty badly , genetic science has come a long way since this so this which originally aired in 1982 really isn't relative or necessary in 2007 . I don't know about anyone else but I think Lane Smith as Dr . Lynn puts in one of the worst guest performances I've ever seen in a Quincy episode . Creature from the Black Lagoon ( 1954 ) star Julie Adams makes her third guest appearance on Quincy in which she has played different character's in each . Science for sale is yet more dated moralistic nonsense that doesn't even try to put a balanced argument across , this is an OK episode but nothing special & I think I'm being generous by saying that .
Average Quincy .	Quincy M . E . : Unreasonable Doubt starts as Lillian Preston ( Kres Mersky ) arrives home with her baby son Charlie after visiting a doctor about his rare condition Sturge Weber disease , visibly upset her husband Jerry ( Jim Antonio ) puts Chalie down on a metal tray & goes to comfort her . By the time Jerry gets back an electrical wire from a TV being repaired has electrocuted Charlie , since Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) is an old friend of Jerry it is decided to give the autopsy to Walter Ross ( John Rubinstein ) who comes to the conclusion that Charlie was deliberately electrocuted & the fact he had Sturge Weber disease meant there was no way he could have freed the wire that killed him . Quincy refuses to believe it & sets out to prove that Jerry didn't kill his own son but the evidence against him is strong . . . Episode 5 from season 8 this Quincy story was directed by Richard Benedict & is better than that which has come before during season 8 but still not exactly brilliant . At least Quincy gets to investigate something this time & use his medical skills & knowledge to uncover the truth even if the truth ends up being a bit dull & some might say a touch predictable . The episode moves along at a nice enough pace & features an attempt to say something about the pressure of father's on their son's which gets a bit lost but there just had to be a moral issue somewhere . This episode also features a handicapped pathologist although while he walks around on crutches & at times is confined to a wheelchair absolutely nothing is made of it & it isn't even mentioned , his disability is screaming at you in the face from the screen as you can't miss it but the story completely ignores it which is strange . I mean why have a disabled pathologist & then do absolutely nothing with him or his condition ? Unreasonable Doubt is an OK time waster if there's nothing else on the other sides but it's hardly classic Quincy . This episode looks alright , Quincy's soon to be wife Dr . Emily Hanover ( Anita Gillette ) gets a few seconds in this one . The regular cast members besides Quincy seem to be getting less & less screen time & I really don't like what's happening with the show here . Unreasonable Doubt is the best story so far in season 8 , it isn't classic Quincy but it's more like the old days if you know what I mean .
Average JCVD period action adventure .	The Quest is set during 1925 where martial arts expert Christopher Dubois ( Jean-Claude Van Damme ) lives in New York & heads up a gang of child pickpockets , when he steals a large sum of cash from a local mobster he goes on the run & ends up on a ship headed for Thailand . Dubois is discovered & treated as a castaway , luckily for Dubois the ship is attacked by pirate Admiral Edgar Dobbs ( Rogeer Moore ) & his men , Dobbs sees Dubois fight & thinks he can use him to make some money & sells him on as a prize fighter on Mutai Island & leaves him there . Later while showing reporter Carrie Newton ( Janet Gunn ) around Thailand Dobbs & Dubois run into each other again , Dubois ask's Dobbs to finance a quest to the Lost City where a martial arts tournament is being held to steal the eventual prize , a huge statue of a Dragon made of pure gold . Once there Dubois enters the tournament & starts to believe he can actually win the thing . . . The Quest was the last film JCVD made under his five picture contract with Universal ( Hard Target ( 1993 ) , Timecop ( 1994 ) , Street Fighter ( 1994 ) & Sudden Death ( 1995 ) being the first four ) & he actually made his directorial debut here with The Quest , as has already been mentioned on numerous occasions by numerous observers The Quest feels a lot like a bigger budgeted remake of JCVD's early hit Bloodsport ( 1988 ) & both are based around the exploits of Frank Dux & his real life experiences fighting in martial arts tournaments around the world . I have to say I was surprised by how unmoved I was by The Quest , all the ingredients are here for a top action adventure film with the evocative 1920's period setting , some great production values , pirates , fights , plots to steal a golden Dragon , martial arts tournaments & some likable character's but somehow The Quest turned out rather forgettable . The Quest doesn't quite add up to the sum of it's parts in my opinion , I mean it's not terrible but it's just not that good either & I think this proves JCVD is not a director as many scenes are flat & seem curtailed . The pace is sluggish to begin with but it picks up towards the end although a lot of the fights look exactly the same , there's no sense of the tournament progressing either & we never learn anything about any of the other fighters either or why this tournament is even being held in the first place or how Dubois knew about the golden Dragon . I have to say I was disappointed with the action here , it's very tame stuff & each fight looks almost exactly the same as the last . There's a great sequence of pirates attacking & boarding a boat but that's about as exciting as The Quest gets . Despite being an action star JCVD doesn't know how to direct action , he uses a lot of seemingly random slow-motion during the fights which is alright I suppose but he even uses it when the fat Japanese Sump wrestler guy is fighting & see this guy's flabby & fat stomach flop & bounce all over the place in slow-motion is a rather unnerving experience . The one thing I will say it that The Quest looks great with lavish period mid 20's production values & I would imagine that's where the budget went . Frank Dux tried to sue JCVD when he claimed he collaborated with JCVD on The Quest & was then denied any of the profits , JCVD eventually won the court case . With a supposed budget of about $30 , 000 , 000 The Quest was probably one of JCVD's biggest budgeted films & it's a shame he didn't use the money more wisely , some of the scenery on show here is amazing & in particular the Thailand footage . Although set in New York & Thailand it was actually partially filmed in Montréal in Québec in Canada . The acting is OK , Roger Moore is watchable & returns to the same islands he shot the final scenes of the Bond film The Man with the Golden Gun ( 1974 ) . Incidentally Moore states that The Quest is his least favourite of the films he has made & in his autobiography claims that JCVD is the second worst person he has ever met in the film making business ( the worst person happens to be Moshe Diamant who actually produced The Quest ) . The Quest is an OK way to pass 100 odd minutes but isn't anything special & I wouldn't even call it top drawer JCVD ( if such a thing exists ! ) , not that bad but not that great either .
Moralistic Quincy episode that is still relevant .	Quincy M . E . : To Clear the Air starts one Californian morning under the quite literal cloud of a smog alert , an old man named Sy Schuster ( E . J . André ) taking a walk starts having trouble breathing & promptly drops down dead . After Sy's autopsy Los Angeles coroner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) lists the cause of death as air pollution after he found high levels of Sulphur Dioxide in Sy's lungs that ultimately killed him . This sends Asten ( John S . Ragin ) crazy but Quincy is determined to stand by his initial findings . Then a ten year old asthmatic boy named Robbie Dreyfus ( Christian Hoff ) ends up on Quincy's autopsy table & he too died from complications resulting from high levels of Sulphur Dioxide in the polluted air . Air pollution readings point to the ' Frontier Oil Refinery ' plant whose money grabbing owner Mr . Craddock is more interested in profits than safe clean air even if that means breaking the law . . . Episode 15 from season 7 this Quincy story was directed by Lester William Berke & the social issue of the week this time is air pollution so in that respect To Clear the Air is actually still relevant & I could certainly relate to it & the issues raised since the pollution of our planet is a concern for everyone & is very high profile these days although since To Clear the Air was made & broadcast back in 1982 I guess things haven't changed that much over the past twenty five years or so . I suppose that as long as the average person can fill the family car up cheaply at the pumps & burn fossil fuels without a care in the world then I doubt they care about air pollution & the potentially devastating long term effects it will have on the Earth . Why should they ? They can drive around in huge cars happily enough , they have enough electricity to run the three or four TV sets in their house & plenty of gas as & when they need it so why would anyone care about pollution ? Out of sight out of mind , right ? Persoanlly I applaud the message that To Clear the Air tries to get across but I fear that the episode will fall mostly upon deaf ears , as I said I just don't think the average person cares enough as long as they have all the fuel & power they need at a cheap enough price . Hell this episode didn't exactly change the world did it ? There's no murder , there's no mystery & it's all rather predictable as Quincy learns that the laws are inadequate & that red tape & bureaucracy once again stand in the way of common sense & what's right . It's not a bad Quincy episode as far as the moralistic ones go , it educates , it tries to get a strong & still relevant message across in no uncertain terms & at least it only lasts for fifty odd minutes . Like a lot of season seven there's a lack of humour & mystery elements , it's striking to see Quincy's relationship with his boss Asten now compared to a few seasons ago . Here Asten is just a character to throw ideas off , keep a level head & be the authority figure while a few seasons ago he was a proper very likable person as he constantly moaned about the budget & felt like the boss while now he feels watered down & his character has gone backwards . There are several montages throughout To Clear the Air of various factories & power plants churning out all sorts of smoke , fumes & waste which I would suspect was basic stock footage rather than specially shot . The acting is alright & Klugman is once again superb with various passionate speeches against pollution & pleas to save the future , this guy is just a great actor , he always gives 100 % & he makes even the worst Quincy episode watchable . OK , maybe not The Cutting Edge ( 1983 ) . . . To Clear the Air isn't the most exciting fifty minutes of telly ever made , it's a moralistic episode with a strong & still very relevant social issue at it's core . Not bad & fans of the show should like it but the lack of any murder or mystery elements don't help .
Yet another moralistic Quincy episode .	Quincy M . E . : The Shadow of Death starts as ex Vietnam nurse Kris O'Brien ( Sharon Spelman ) picks a guy up in a bar , the next morning & Los Angeles medical examiner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) is called to her apartment after her dead body is discovered . The autopsy proves that Kris was shot in the chest after she had been raped , Lt . Monahan ( Garry Walberg ) is looking for a rapist & killer . Quincy meets Rachel Kane ( Karen Austin ) who was Kris ' best friend & also an ex Vietnam nurse , she tells Quincy that Kris suffered from nightmares as the horror of what she experienced during combat constantly haunted her . Rachel also suffers from hallucination & nightmares & starts to drink heavily & become depressed , Quincy realises that it's not only male Vietnam Veterans who suffer from the war & sets out to help Rachel , raise awareness & find Kris ' killer . . . Episode 16 from season 7 this Quincy story was directed by Georg Fenady & like most of seasons seven & eight revolves around a social issue although at least there's a smattering of a murder mystery in this one even though it only gets about five minutes of screen time . Here in The Shadow of Death the social issue of the week happens to be female Vietnam Veterans who suffer just as much as their male counterparts . There's a rant about how Vietnam Veterans were / are treated & that they need help & all that sort of thing . You know the score . This has all the subtlety of a sledgehammer , it's very heavy handed & preachy as usual although the sporadic murder mystery elements make The Shadow of Death at least watchable . Not really sure what else to say about this , all the Vietnam clichés are here from horrifying flashbacks to voices in people's heads to various things like posters with soldiers on them triggering bad memories & denial by the sufferer who don't think they have a problem . Sound familiar ? You bet it does . This isn't why I like Quincy so much , in this Quincy is relegated to a bit part character there only to raise an issue rather than being the focus of the story as he uses his medical skills & knowledge to solve a crime which is where I think the series works best & is at it's most entertaining . This one looks OK but as usual there's nothing in the way of style , it's functional but unremarkable . There are also a few cheap looking Vietnam war reenactments . The acting is alright but Klugman as usual stands out head & shoulders above the guest cast . The Shadow of Death is OK I suppose , it moves along at a reasonable pace & at least there's an actual murder mystery plot here although it is squeezed out by the social issue element of the story which definitely counts against it .
Didn't do much for me .	The Devil's Rejects is set during 1978 in Ruggsville , Texas where Sheriff John Quincey Wydell ( William Forsythe ) & his men have tracked the notorious Firefly family down to their farm , in a fierce gunfight one member of the family is killed , mother Firefly ( Leslie Easterbrook ) is captured while Oatis ( Bill Moseley ) & Baby Firefly ( Sheri Moon ) manage to escape through a drain . The hunt is on for them as the police find mass graves , dead bodies , furniture made from human bones & a catalogue of other horrors at the Firefly farmhouse . Oatis & Baby meet up with Captain Spaulding ( Sid Haig ) who all then seek shelter at Charlie Altamont's ( Ken Foree ) whore house , however the case becomes personal for Wydell when he discovers his brother George ( Tom Towles ) was one of the Firefly's victims & he decides to dish out his own kind of justice once he finds them . . . Written , produced & directed by Rob Zombie this sequel to his unimpressive House of a 1000 Corpses ( 2003 ) isn't that much of an improvement but is slightly better . The nasty & somewhat depressing script takes itself very seriously & is like a twisted road movie as the Firefly clan try to avoid the authorities , at almost two hours in length I thought The Devil's Rejects went on for too long & I must admit I was pretty bored of it by the end . One reason why I don't like this film much is the Firefly's themselves , I hated each & every one of them with a passion & I just wanted to see them all dead . They aren't your usual anti-hero serial killing scum like Jason Voorhees , Michael Myers or Freddy Kruger who you actually grow to like & root for , no these are unlikable , annoying , ugly idiots who seem to think swearing every other word makes them hard or something . There is so much profanity in The Devil's Rejects it becomes boring very quickly , it's also pretty hardcore swearing with insults & derogatory terms flying all over the place . I'm no prude & I believe it's impossible to portray certain real life situations without coarse language but this film just contains a constant barrage of explicit bad language & insults for the hell of it . I thought it was a watchable film but nothing special , the exploitation levels aren't that great & unless bad language is your thing it becomes tiresome to sit through . It moves along at a reasonable pace but I never really got into the story & it's utterly predictable too . Director Zombie does OK , he films using the old Blair Witch shaky camera thing , it's not quite as shaky as in the Blair Witch but I don't think there's a single steady shot in the entire film which gives it a certain gritty documentary feel about it . It has a reasonable style & some nice scenes along with a mean spirited atmosphere . The gore & exploitation levels weren't great although there are two versions available , the ' R ' rated cut & the obligatory ' Unrated ' version & to be perfectly honest I have no idea which one I saw . There are various gunshot wounds , beatings , someone is stabbed in the chest , someone has large nails hammered through his hands ( they still manage to drive a car latter in the film as well ) , someone is run over by a truck & a guys sliced off face skin is placed over his wife's face in a scene that was obviously ripped-off from The Texas Chainsaw Massacre 2 ( 1986 ) . This wasn't as gory or as graphic as I thought it might be although the mental torture & humiliation suffered by he Firefly's victims can sometimes make uncomfortable viewing . There is a fair amount of nudity as well as some sex scenes . With a supposed budget of about $7 , 000 , 000 The Devil's Rejects is certainly well made with good production values , it's just a shame I didn't like the film that much because it looks pretty good & nails that 70's sinister sleazy backwoods feel . The acting is good from all involved & it's a pretty damned good cast as well , I've just realised that I have met in person Ken Foree , Michael Berryman & Bill Moseley ! The Devil's Rejects is an OK horror exploitation film that didn't really do much for me although it has a certain brutality & mean streak that I liked . Better than House of 1000 Corpses but that ain't saying much , it could have been better although it could have been worse .
Reasonable early 80's slasher , decent enough for the genre .	Madman is set in upstate New York at the North Sea Cottages camp for gifted children as the season comes to a close & the children & volunteer teenage counsellors prepare to say goodbye , pack up & leave for home . However their final night there will be unforgettable thanks to the huge hulking & deformed axe wielding mutant Madman Marz ( Paul Ehlers ) who decides to rear his ugly head & start killing off the counsellors one-by-one . As the counsellors diminish in number only Betsy ( Gaylen Ross under the pseudonym Alexis Dubin ) remains to battle it out for survival against Madman Marz & his trusty axe . . . Written & directed by Joe Giannone this is a pretty bog standard by-the-numbers early 80's teen slasher that I wouldn't say was the worst of it's kind but at the same time I would have to say it's not the best either , basically if you want a very straight forward teen slasher then I suppose Madman fits the bill perfectly . Madman is your basic Friday the 13th ( 1980 ) rip-off , there's the isolated camp for children setting , there's plenty of dark woods for the character's to wander around in if the makers need a bit of padding , there's the horny teen counsellors , there's the responsible adult , there's some large hulking mass of a killer roaming around with inhuman strength & there's even a campfire scene in which scary stories are told about the killer which foreshadows the upcoming events . The teen slasher is an incredibly formalistic & limited sub-genre & Madman definitely doesn't set out to break any new ground that's for sure . Madman is a fairly unremarkable film on all counts , it's competent & fans of the teen slasher genre will probably enjoy it & as I do & as I did but it's almost indistinguishable from all the other teen slasher films set in some woods out there . There are one or two things which don't work either , I mean we never find out what shocked Richie so much in the basement & left him in such a catatonic state or why he went off on his own at the start when he saw Marz in the tree ( why not tell his mates who were standing right next to him ? ) . Madman is also rather repetitive , counsellor goes out in dark , gets killed , friends get worried & go looking for them & get killed , start process again . That's all the story there is to Madman really & the plot never becomes anymore complicated or involved than that simple premise . At just under ninety minutes there's a bit too much wondering around in the dark & I think the film would have a better pace if five or ten minutes were cut . No early 80's slasher worthy of the title would be complete without some gore , would it ? Here in Madman there's some good stuff if a little unimaginative , all the kills are forgettable & none really stand out . There are a couple of decapitations ( the same headless body prop was probably used for both scenes & thus saved money ) , there's a slit throat , a hanging , several people are struck with axes , some blood splatter & spurting as well as someone getting hung on a meat hook much like The Texas Chainsaw Msssacre ( 1974 ) only gorier . The film is well shot & looks pretty good with a decent atmosphere about it , there's build up to all the murders & there's a bit of tension here although not many out & out scares if you ask me . The opening sequence with that guy singing is quite cringe worthy & what is up with that almost surreal hot-tub scene ? Probably a fairly modest budgeted film Madman was apparently filmed on location in Fish Cove Inn on Long Island in New York . The production values are good & as I have said the film is nice enough to look at . The cast are alright , I barely recognised Gaylen Ross who should be familiar to horror fans as Fran from the original magnificent Dawn of the Dead ( 1978 ) since her hair style is so different here in Madman . The makers originally wanted Vincent Price for the part of Max but obviously failed . Madman is a decent enough early 80's teen slasher , it does what it sets out to do & kill a bunch of teen in dark places so if that's all your looking for then you could do a lot worse . I seen worse slashers but then I've seen better ones too .
" I think my mask of sanity is about to slip . " Didn't do much for me .	American Psycho is set in New York where Patrick Bateman ( Christian Bale ) the Vice President of a Wall Street banking firm enjoys a hugely successful life with a beautiful apartment , loads of money , the best clothes , the finest food & all the luxuries anyone could ever want . However under the calm & calculating exterior Patrick has psychological problems as he has a violent blood-lust which he satisfies by killing people he has contempt for & he also likes perverted sex sessions with prostitutes ( then again who wouldn't ? ) . His latest victim Paul Allen ( Jared Leto ) is missed & his fiancé hires private detective Donald Kimball ( Willem Dafoe ) to find him , will Patrick be exposed as the homicidal maniac that he is or can he get away with it . . . This American Canadian co-production was co-written & directed by Mary Harron & I have to say that I didn't think that much of it despite it's reputation . The social satire laden script by Harron & Guinevere Turner who played Elisabeth the high class prostitute in the film was based on the controversial novel of the same name by Bret Easton Ellis & I just don't ' get ' it's appeal or why anyone would particularly want to sit down & watch it , overall I think it's quite a dull & repetitive film with some nice dialogue & a few decent scenes which save it from total banality . Some of Bateman's monologues along with the amusing yet pointless speeches about the merits of 80's pop groups & the style of people's business cards are pretty funny at times if trivial & if your looking for some sex & nudity then American Psycho might do it for you . I was expecting more in the horror department if I'm honest , there's barely a drop of blood in it & certainly nothing graphic , pretty much all of the character's are very unlikeable & one dimensional with Willem Dafoe's cop getting about three scenes before he is completely dropped & I also thought it was boring with pretty much the same thing happening scene after scene . I wasn't impressed by the ambiguous ending either which tries to be clever but I just found it frustrating as it never clarifies if it was all in Bateman's imagination . Personally I didn't think it was anything to write home about but there does seem to be a lot of people out there who like it , so maybe I just went into it with the wrong expectations & quite simply it's just not for me . Director Harron does OK , there's a nice elegance to the way this is shot with nice camera slick moves . The film nails the whole 80's yuppie thing very well as these unlikeable people spend money like water , care for nothing or no one but themselves & have beautiful apartments for which I'm very jealous . I found myself becoming bored with all the yuppie satire going on & again it just felt very repetitive . I wouldn't say there's anything scary here or even particularly that violent although there are a couple of fairly strong sex scenes . With a supposed budget of about $8 , 000 , 000 this looks nice enough with sleek & stylish cinematography but what does that matter when the film did so little for me ? Set in New York it was actually mostly filmed in Ontario in Canada . The acting is OK , I don't really know if I liked Christian Bale's performance or not . Willem Dafoe is utterly wasted in a nothing part . American Psycho is trying to be a complex dark thriller which wants to say something about 80's upper class society in New York , I'm sorry but weren't the 80's like 20 years ago ? I'm sure there are many out there who like or even love this film & I'm proud to say right here & now that I'm not one of them , average at best & an irrelevant bore at worst . Followed by the straight-to-video American Psycho 2 : All American Girl ( 2002 ) which has no connection to this at all apart from a vague Patrick Bateman reference .
Fairly entertaining haunted house horror film .	Lauren Cochran ( Robin Groves ) is a writer who lives in New York City and lately has been suffering from anxiety attacks , which her Doctor , Webb ( Patrick Farrelly ) put down to a condition called agoraphobia , which is a fear of leaving the house . Lauren decides to escape Manhattan and head to a small town called Dover Falls to finish her current novel . Her friend Mark Felton ( Christopher Loomis ) drives her to Dover Falls . They stop by the side of the road , take a break and stretch their legs . Lauren comes across an unusual large octagonal house that she feels she knows . It's exactly the same house she wrote about in one of her previous books entitled ' The Nesting ' . And that the cover illustration on the book that she described for the artist to draw is precisely the same as this house she is looking at now , even though she has never been there before . She immediately decides to rent the property . She makes arrangements with the house's owner , a Colonel Lebrun ( John Carradine ) and his grandson Daniel Griffith ( Micheal David Lally ) and moves in straight away . That night Lauren has a dream about the house , or was it a hallucination or possibly even ghosts ? While visiting , Dr . Webb has an ' accident ' and is killed . The local handyman Frank Beasley ( Bill Rowley ) is mysteriously drowned after trying to attack Lauren . More strange things happen , record players start on their own , words are mysteriously typed onto her work and Lauren continues to see strange people who seem able to just appear and disappear at will . She decides to investigate the house's history , and talks with a local farmer called Abner Welles ( David Tabor ) who becomes violent towards her when questioned about the house . Lauren becomes more and more unsure if what she has experienced is real , hallucinatory or if indeed there are ghosts inhabiting the house . Co-written and directed by Armand Weston I thought this was a decent enough haunted house horror film . The script by Weston and Daria Price takes quite a long time to establish the situation and is fairly slow going at times . But I have to say it kept me pretty interested and watching right through to the end . One thing that disappointed me was the lacklustre ending , after all the build-up I was hoping for something a little more substantial than what was offered , it just ends up being a bit of a let down and rather pedestrian . Robin Groves was good in the leading role , but I thought Micheal David Lally was awful . There's not much gore in it , just a scythe whacked into someones face , someone is impaled and some gunshot wounds at the end . There's a bit of nudity , but not much . The film looks OK and has a decent atmosphere to it , and the octagonal house is both unusual and cool , I don't think I've ever seen another house like it . If you don't mind a horror film with a slightly slow pace then you could do a lot worse than this , but then I suppose you could probably do a lot better as well . Worth watching , if you can find a cheap copy or catch it on T . V . for free .
Average straight-to-video sequel .	Mimic 2 starts late one night in the New York City subway , Lincoln Trahm ( Bill Cho Lee ) is walking along when he realise something is after him , some shadowy dark figure that wants to harm him but in his haste to escape Lincoln is run over by a taxi before it can . . . Detective Klaski ( Bruno Campos ) is on the case & his investigations leads him to school teacher Remi ( Alix Koromzay returning from the original ) who doesn't have much luck with boyfriends & when her current romantic engagement Jason ( Brian Leckner ) is murdered & his mutilated corpse is found all roads lead back to Remi , again . while staying late at school Remi & a kid named Sal ( Gaven E . Lucas ) discover that it has become a nest for genetically altered insects from the original Mimic ( 1997 ) whose remaining number have mutated into yet an even more deadly & advanced species that have developed a thing for Remi herself & don't like competition . . . Directed by Jean de Segonzac this was the second film in the Mimic trilogy which started with Mimic , then came this & Mimic : Sentinel ( 2003 ) has been the last entry in the series to date . The script by Joel Soisson is based on the short story by Donald A . Wollheim & is OK but it all feels very average , nothing stands out as being overly enthralling or brilliant . Basically Mimic 2 is a giant monster on the loose attacking humans in an isolated location who have to fight for their lives type film , there are loads of them out there & Mimic 2 isn't exactly the best one . There's the mutated monster plot coupled with a standard stalk'n'slash horror like Friday the 13th ( 1980 ) as they hunt their human victims , usually in very dark corridors . It's clichéd as well , the scientist , the tough cop , the shadowy government officials that could have come straight from The X-Files ( 1993 - 2002 ) & the way the mutant bugs intelligence varies during the film depending on what the script calls for . Mimic 2 is one of those films that is OK for what it is but nothing more , it's not particularly brilliant but at the same time it's not particularly bad just all rather average ' seen-it-all-before ' sci-fi / horror stuff . At only just over 80 minutes long at least it's short . Director Segonzac does an OK as the entire film seems to be lit with bright neon lights which creates some nice scene while at other times it looks very overused & just too staged . It's not that exciting or scary & I thought it was too predictable as well , from who will live right down to the ' twist ' sequel driven ending . There isn't much blood or gore , unfortunately . A mutilated face & some splashes of blood . With a supposed budget of about $10 , 000 , 000 I simply can't see where all that money went , apart from some CGI bug effects there isn't much to it . The special effects are good although it's very obvious that it wasn't shot in New York even though it's supposed to be set there . The acting is OK but nothing special . Mimic 2 is an OK way to pass 80 odd minutes but won't leave a long lasting impression on you . Worth a watch but don't expect a masterpiece .
The second worst Friday the 13th . . .	Friday the 13th Part VII : The New Blood starts with a troubled young psychic girl named Tina Shepard ( Lar Park-Lincoln ) , her mother Amanda ( Susan Blu ) & her Doctor ( Terry Kiser ) diving to Crystal Lake the scene where Tina witnessed the ' accidental ' death of her Father many years ago as part of her treatment . As they pull up to the cabin where they will be staying they notice that a group of teens are staying in another cabin nearby . Tina is not convinced that this is the right approach to help her & in a rage storms out & runs down by a nearby lake . There she becomes angry & upset which unleash her psychic powers which in turn brings the notorious serial killer Jason Voorhees ( Kane Hodder ) back to life whose body is , or was , chained to the bottom of the lake . Jason only has one thing on his mind & that's to kill anyone he meets & all those appetising teens in that cabin is a good start . . . Directed by John Carl Buechler this was the seventh ( if your not too good with Roman numerals ) entry in the long running & popular Friday the 13th horror franchise , unfortunately I have the sad duty to report that in my opinion Friday the 13th Part VII : The New Blood is probably the weakest of the regular series but not quite as bad as Jason Goes to Hell : The Final Friday ( 1993 ) which messed about with the whole thing but that's a different story . Anyway , the script by Manuel Fidello & Daryl Haney ( who was apparently sacked before he completed the script because his agent said he wanted a large pay increase & was replaced by Fidello ) once again tries to breathe new life into a somewhat tired , predictable & formalistic series of films with no so good results , I openly admit that I am a big fan of the Friday the 13th series but the way Jason is revived this time around is poor & to have him face off against a Carrie ( 1978 ) wannabe in the shape of the annoying psychic Tina including a silly & incredibly stupid ending when she resurrects her dead Father to rise out of the lake & kill Jason more or less killed the film for me also the extra unused deleted ending shown on the DVD should have been kept in & is pretty cool . Having said that parts around it when it does go back to the more traditional Friday the 13th theme of Jason stalking & killing teens it's OK but still far from the best the series has to offer . Director Buechler does OK & I have to say that Jason has never looked better , or should that be worse ? , as he has some absolutely terrific rotten zombie make-up & I liked the way earlier in the film while he wears his iconic hockey mask there is a small section broken & you can see some his teeth sticking out & that his lips have rotted away , nice touch along with the fact that under his ripped clothes you can see his rib cage , spine & various bones poking out & all achieved with some impressive special effects . Now here's the problem , it's obvious that the censors got their scissors out again & Friday the 13th Part VII : The New Blood has to be the tamest & most bloodless in the entire series , every kill looks cut , every kill is more-or-less bloodless & there's just no graphic gore or violence whatsoever , come on guys what are we watching films like this for anyway ? In the end I found it all rather dull with little in the way of build up to the kills & absolutely no pay-off or reward for sticking with it . What I will say though is that it wasn't the filmmakers fault & that I have seen the cut gore scenes , they're on the special edition DVD as poor quality time coded snippets without music or sound effects , & they are so much better it's untrue . Dr . Crews guts get torn out , someone gets an axe in the face , the sleeping bag death is longer & gorier , someone has a party popper shoved in their eye , there's more graphic bloodshed & impalings & the best bit where the guy has his head literally crushed to a bloody mess , great scene , & more besides but it's a shame they'll never be put back into the film properly . Wit a supposed budget of about $3 , 500 , 000 it's a shame that a lot of that probably ended up on the cutting room floor in terms of special effects . It's well made & has decent production values though . The acting isn't up to much , I can't say I liked anyone . Friday the 13th Part VII : The New Blood is one of the most disappointing entries in the series as far as I'm concerned , the filmmakers set out with good intentions but a few poor script decisions & the untimely & unwelcome intervention of the censors pretty much killed it before it had a chance . A disappointment all round .
Average action thriller .	U . S . Marshals starts in Chicago where mechanic Mark Roberts ( Wesley Snipes ) has an accident in his truck , during a routine check by the local police it is discovered that Mark is wanted in New York for the murder of two federal agents so he is put on a prisoner transport plane & sent there . However an attempt is made on Marks life on the plane which forces it to crash land , Mark manages to escape in the confusion . Also on board was senior deputy US marshal Samuel Gerard ( Tommy Lee Jones ) who flies his team in & gets the manhunt for Mark underway , as Gerard hunts Mark he realises that something doesn't add up & that there's more to the situation than just an escaped fugitive . . . Directed by Stuart Baird this was a sequel to the smash hit film The Fugitive ( 1993 ) with Tommy Lee Jones reprising his role as US marshal Samuel Gerard on yet another big manhunt for an escaped convict that turns out to be an innocent man on the run trying to uncover those responsible for his wrong imprisonment so in that respect US Marshals is very similar to the original . The script by John Pogue is a bit too long & rather convoluted for my liking . The story is a bit of a mess as it deals with various things like conspiracies , selling Government secrets , people being set-up , cover ups & some predictable twists , the story never really flows as well as one would hope with little bits of information given every so often which never really come together that well . I never sat there & after a plot twist was surprised or never thought to myself that makes logical sense . The bitty storyline just isn't as clear , forward moving or purposeful as it should be , one good example of this is the revelation of what happened in the parking lot when Mark was supposed to have killed two agents as the entire scene is played out on various grainy black and white security cameras with a running commentary from Gerard & it's just a very confused scene as it's hard to make out who is who & what exactly is going on . The character's are alright but nothing special , there's your typical obnoxious high ranking Government officials , there's the good old fashion hero , the anti-hero & the annoying comedy relief . Director Baird does OK but for an action thriller I thought there was a major lack of action , OK there's an impressive plane crash , a couple of shoot-outs & a few fights & chase scenes but nothing I would call particularly memorable or original . I definitely expected more action & a better story . It's also a very long film , at well over two hours you could find your patience wearing very thin by the time the end credits start to roll . The violence is minimal as is the action . With a supposed budget of about $60 , 000 , 000 this was a well funded film & apart from the plane crash I can't really see where all that money went although apparently Tommy Lee Jones was paid $10 , 000 , 000 of it . The location filming in New York & Chicago was also probably pretty expensive . The acting is OK & Jones is good , Snipes is alright & Joe Pantoliano is just annoying . US Marshals isn't as good as The Fugitive in my opinion , to be honest I think it's a rather confused thriller that isn't thrilling & the lack of big scale action set-pieces is very disappointing . One good plane crash just isn't enough for over two hours worth of investment . It's alright & worth a watch if you can catch it on telly for free but it's nothing more than average as far as I'm concerned .
Strictly average JCVD action thriller .	Maximum Risk starts in the South of France where ex-Russian mobster Mikhail Suverov ( Jean-Claude Van Damme ) is killed in an accident while trying to escape from two FBI agents chasing him . The police become involved & detective Sebastien ( Jean-Hugues Anglade ) recognises Mikhail as his close friend & fellow cop Alain Moreau ( Jean-Claude Van Damme ) , it quickly turns out that Mikhail & Alain were identical twins separated at birth . Wanting to know about his brother & why he was killed Alain follows a trail back to New York where he discovers his brother Mikhail was involved with Russian mobsters & a beautiful waitress named Alex Minetti ( Natasha Henstridge ) , Alain also discovers the Russian mobsters want him dead not to mention the FBI who also want a piece of him . . . Making his American action film debut this run of the mill JCVD action film was directed by Ringo Lam & was the second time a famed Asian action film director made his American feature film debut with JCVD after John Woo made probably JCVD's best film Hard Target ( 1993 ) & JCVD would also star in Hark Tsui's first American film as well with the terrible Double Team ( 1997 ) . Anyway , here the almost humourless script by Larry Ferguson feels like a collection of action film clichés loosely strung together with little regard for a plot , the narrative or the audience . There's the JCVD character who is not only a cop but also an ex-soldier just so he can really handle himself , there's evil mobsters who can't shoot straight , there's a pretty blonde woman who is entirely surplus to the plot & is included solely for her looks , there's various fights & chases , there's a ' big ' tough bad guy who JCVD has to have a climatic showdown with towards the end , there's crooked FBI agents & not much of a plot to speak of . Most of Maximum Risk just feels like JCVD going from one fight to another on the basic pretence that they are after his twin brother & it just gets old very quickly & the whole plot is uninspiring , it's predictable , it's silly & it's throughly routine . I suppose it's watchable , there's nothing spectacularly wrong with it & it moves along at a decent pace but I just can't muster up much enthusiasm for it at all & I consider myself a JCVD fan . Maximum Risk was the second time JCVD played dual roles in a film the first being Double Impact ( 1991 ) where , like in Maximum Risk , he played identical twins & then he went on to play two roles in both Replicant ( 2001 ) & The Order ( 2001 ) . Having said that his twin dies in the opening sequence so there are never two JCVD's on screen at once in Maximum Risk . I have to say that I didn't like the way Maximum Risk was shot at all , the fact I saw a pan and scan version rather than a full 2 : 35 : 1 widescreen edition didn't help but the camera angles are weird & they just don't capture the action that well , the length of shot is very short & the editing is just very bad & annoying as it makes it difficult so get a grip of what is going on & finally there's that horrible shaky camera syndrome which just adds to the general irritation . The action feels routine , the fights are alright but nothing special while the chases are ruined by being poorly shot & aren't much to begin with anyway . Also what does Lam have against plastic garden furniture ? The amount of scenes in which he crashes cars into plastic chairs & tables outside cafés seems to be too numerous to be a coincidence . With a supposed budget of about $25 , 000 , 000 Maximum Risk really should have been better than this , I think it's a throughly routine & badly shot action flick that apart from one or two car chases & some expensive location work looks like it was a made-for-telly effort . The locations sound impressive having been shot in Paris , Canada & New York . The acting is poor , I think JCVD is terrible in this while all the Russian accents are unconvincing although at least Hanstridge is easy on the eyes & she goes topless briefly in one scene . Maximum Risk is one of JCVD's more routine efforts , I found it a really disappointing film that was badly shot & written . Having said that it passes the time & is nowhere near his worst although at the same time it's nowhere near his best . After several big hits like Universal Soldier ( 1992 ) , Hard Target , Timecop ( 1994 ) & Sudden Death ( 1995 ) you can trace the demise of JCVD pretty much back to Maximum Risk .
Better than usual effort from Troma .	Class of Nuke ' Em High starts at ' Tromaville Nuclear Utility ' where a leak of radioactive material is reported to the boss Mr . Finly ( Pat Ryan as R . L . Ryan ) but he insists there is no problem & doesn't want any hassle from the authorities & tells everyone to forget about it . It's not long before the nearby ' Tromaville High School ' is contaminated with radioactive water & a gang of drug dealers start selling weed that also has been contaminated with radiation . It's not long before the whole school goes into complete meltdown & slimy radiation monsters are running around poking people's eyes out . . . Directed by Richard W . Haines , Michael Herz & Lloyd Kaufman as Samuel Weil I thought Class of Nuke ' Em High was better than most of the crap Troma make although that by no means makes it a masterpiece , far from it . The script by co-directors Haines & Kaufman along with Mark Rudnitsky & Stuart Strutin is dumb , has no real story , no real character's & it isn't particularly brilliant on any level . The script goes for comedy , a bit of social commentary & the usual bad taste gags that Troma are notorious for , any successful attempts at achieving these are purely by accident . The films funniest scene is when someone farts in someone's else's face , yep that the highest level of intelligence that Class of Nuke ' Em High reaches I'm afraid . It moves along at a fair pace , something is always happening even if it's not very entertaining at times , it doesn't take itself too seriously & it works on a basic level . I can't quite understand why it took three people to direct Class of Nuke ' Em High ( & four people to write it , four ! ? ) because it's a pretty shoddy looking production throughout but is still better than most Troma films . There's no scares or shocks & it lacks any atmosphere although some may find it distasteful with scenes of old ladies being mugged & beaten up , guys growing breasts & girls giving birth to tadpole like creatures . The special effects are actually quite impressive & the slimy radiation monster at the end looks really good which was the last thing I was expecting . There's some gore here , a decapitation , a poked out eye , a severed hand & a cool scene where someone's face melts down to their skull . Technically Class of Nuke ' Em High is basic but isn't as bad as I'd feared . One thing I must say though is that I hated the music which seems to play constantly in the background , it gave me a headache . The acting was variable but again better than the usual crap I've come to expect from the average Troma film . Class of Nuke ' Em high is an OK way to pass 90 odd minutes , it's not brilliant & has virtually no story but there's enough twisted & depraved Troma nonsense here to make it worth a watch . Followed by Class of Nuke ' Em High Part II : Subhumanoid Meltdown ( 1991 ) which is the better film . . .
" There's someone out there tyring to kill us & overall his been pretty fcking successful . " Not too bad actually .	Nightmare Man starts as Bill ( Luciano Szafir ) is driving his wife Ellen ( Blythe Metz ) cross country to a mental institute , apparently Ellen thinks she's possessed by some sort of demon from an Afican tribal wood carved face mask , obviously she isn't & that's why she's on her way to a loony bin . However en-route the car runs out of petrol in the middle of nowhere , Bill sets off on foot to find a petrol station while Ellen stays behind in the car . It turns out though Ellen may not be as mad as originally anticipated as the Nightmare Man ( Aaron Sherry ) becomes a living reality that wants to kill her , she runs away into some wood where she stumbles upon a log cabin with four friends inside who all become potential victims for the Nightmare Man . . . Written , produced & directed by Rolfe Kanefsky this low budget teen slasher isn't quite as bad as I had feared & isn't too bad if you have low enough expectations . The script obviously takes it inspiration from the self conscious Scream ( 1996 ) & it's imitators , this is a basic teen slasher & to be honest it doesn't really try to be anything else . Sure there are a couple of average twists in the story to liven things up a bit but at heart this is just a slasher . To be positive at least it moves along at a nice enough pace , there might have been a couple more murders but I wasn't bored with it , the character's are actually a lot better than I thought with reasonable decision making like actively trying to stick together & deciding not to go out in the woods alone or split up which is a nice change & generally speaking I thought it was a painless if undemanding & forgettable enough way to pass 90 odd minutes . The other thing that I liked about this film is Tiffany Shepis who I have seen in several other low budget horror films but didn't particularly know her in the sense if I saw a picture of her I wouldn't recognise her , here though she's probably the best thing about Nightmare Man as she runs around in her extremely mini skirt & boots holding a huge hunting rifle spouting mildly amusing one-liners , hey I'm easily pleased OK ? Director Kanefsky does alright on a low budget but it's not stylish & it all rather flat & bland . I've just realised that I've seen every horror film Kanefsky has directed to this point ( lucky me , not ) , The Hazing ( 2004 ) which is pretty good , Corpses ( 2004 ) which is not so good , Jacqueline Hyde ( 2006 ) which is terrible & this which is OK . There's no scares , the twists aren't entirely successful or surprising , there's not much tension & no atmosphere but nothings perfect I suppose . Horror fans will also be able to spot the blatant The Evil Dead ( 1982 ) homage . There's not much gore here , an arrow fired into someones mouth , a knife stuck under someones chin & a bit of blood splatter & not much else . Withn a supposed budget of about $250 , 000 this is as well made as you could expect , it's certainly glossier & nicer looking than many low budget straight-to-video / DVD horror film crap that's out there . As I said Tiffany Shepis is the best thing about Nightmare Man , she's a really hot looking chick with a great body & she actually gives a decent performance here which I'm sure no one was expecting to hear . The rest of the cast do OK & all of the girls find themselves in some degree of undress at one point or another . Nightmare Man isn't anything particularly special , in fact it's nothing more than OK but even that's still a hell of a lot better than I was expecting . Worth a watch for horror fans who have to see everything & anything but other more casual viewers out there may not be that impressed .
" We have four dead guards , one dead scanner & one escaped prisoner . This has not been a good week . " Not to bad a sequel .	Scanner Cop II like the original features scanner Samuel Staziak ( Daniel Quinn ) who has now made detective in the L . A . P . D . Samuel is currently trying to locate his natural birth Mother & enlists the help of Carrie Goodart ( Khrystyne Haje ) who happens to be a scanner herself & runs the ' Trans Neurol Research Center ' , an organisation set up to help scanners such as themselves . Samuel now takes a special form of Ephemerol which lets him have all the advantageous abilities associated with being a scanner without any of the negative side effects . Samuel often puts his scanner ability to good use in the fight against crime in Los Angeles but Samuel's past returns to haunt him . A powerful , & mad , scanner named Karl Volkin ( Patrick Kilpatrick ) is out for revenge after Samuel put him away in a bust that ended up with Karl's Brother being shot dead . Karl has developed a way to absorb other scanners power & life-force thus increasing his , in a fight to the death Samuel must face the most dangerous adversary he ever has . . . Directed by Steve Barnett , who also is credited as post-production supervisor , this is the second & to date last Scanner Cop film which in itself was a spin-off from David Cronenberg's Scanners ( 1981 ) , a film which I personally can't get on with at all despite it's good reputation . In a series of just two films there is a chance that Scanner Cop II will be better than it's predecessor Scanner Cop ( 1994 ) right ? Well unfortunately even with those odds it isn't , although having said that it's not too far behind it & it's still a fairly decent way to pass 90 odd minutes . The script by Mark Sevi moves along at a nice enough pace but feels very similar to the original . Also like the original Scanner Cop II is as much a police thriller as horror & the decision to take Samuel out of uniform & into plain clothes as a detective was a bad one in my opinion , this is just another cop in a leather jacket running around lifted straight from any number of 80's & 90's low budget action films . The uniform gave Samuel a certain vulnerability & distinctiveness which is missing here as he uses his powers to sort situations out like freeing hostages & in the process defusing a bomb by simply staring at it . In the original Samuel had conflicts with himself & was a well developed character with more depth than usual but in this he is just your average ' save-the-day ' action hero with a bad hair cut . Director Barnett takes over from Pierre David who acts as producer here , he directs with competence but Scanner Cop II has no real style to it . The special make-up effects could have been better & the gore is somewhat restrained , there are some splitting , bubbling , pulsating skin effects & melted bodies but little else except for the obligatory head explosion which you have to wait until the last five minutes to see & frankly it isn't worth the wait & doesn't even come close to the fabulous exploding head from Cronenberg's original . With a very healthy sounding budget of about $4 , 000 , 000 Scanner Cop II should look a hell of a lot better than it does , I mean 4 big ones is a lot of cash for a film such as this , I really can't see where the money went . No major stars , no big action scenes , very limited special effects & only one split second head explosion ? You tell me where the money went . The acting was OK & Kilpatrick has a certain intensity & makes for a good villain ( am I the only one who thinks he looks like Michael Ironside ? ) but Quinn definitely isn't all guns blazing action hero material . Scanner Cop II is a decent enough way to pass 90 odd minutes but just don't expect any kind of classic , worth a watch especially if you enjoyed the original .
I have the power of the Green Eyed Dragon & nothing on Earth can match it , nothing ! " So bad it's good ?	Invincible Super Chan starts as the Invincible Super Chan himself pitches up outside the oriental home of May Yan Chung who has been a very naughty boy because he killed the Invincible Super Chan's master & for that transgression he must die . After the Invincible Super Chan has dealt with Chung & his fat bald Brother he becomes the most feared fighter in China . Chung's daughter Ling is understandably upset that her entire family has been wiped out by the Invincible Super Chan & sets about gaining her own revenge , or at least I think that's what happened in this film . . . This Hong Kong production was directed by Sun Yan & it is either the biggest piece of crap ever or the most entertaining & hilarious martial arts film I've ever seen , I personally think it's somewhere between the two . The script , by someone whom I can't name-check because there are no credits on Invincible Super Chan , basically has no story other than constant fights involving the Invincible Super Chan & he is invincible for reasons that were never explained . He manages to fight & kill literally 100's of guys during this film in all manner of bizarre ways that have to be seen to be believed . The Invincible Super Chan can also jump over 100 feet up into the air & land on top of a cliff ! Your jaw will drop as you watch Invincible Super Chan , it defies logical rationalisation & is certainly a unique way to spend 90 odd minutes . The character's are cardboard cutouts & just about as useful , the dialogue is hilariously bad & the film doesn't make much sense overall but it moves along like a rocket as there is fight after fight after fight before it ends as the Invincible Super Chan rides off on horseback into the sunset minus his left arm . Director Yan tries to inject plenty of violence , action , fights & bizarre moments in his film although it's quite poorly made at times with some terrible editing , special effects & lacklustre fights . There are scenes where the Invincible Super Chan throws bad guys into trees & they get stuck on the branches , he shoves a rock into some guys mouth & then pushes his face down into the ground so he swallows the rock , he jumps up the face of cliffs , he fights bad guys who have killer springs , one can surf across water on his flag pole ( he can also make fish magically disappear ) & who can forget the samurai dwarf & his mate who fights with a deadly abacus ! Seriously , I'm not joking . All that strangeness along with dozens of silly looking gravity defying jumps , leaps & somersault's can be found in Invincible Super Chan , quite astonishing stuff . The fights aren't that well choreographed & look daft more than anything else . Apparently this was banned in over 30 countries , well maybe back in ' 72 when it was made but not these days because although there's plenty of fights & a fair amount of blood it's not overly graphic , someone is sliced in two , the Invincible Super Chan has his arm sliced off ( not that it bothers him ) , & there are various impalings but little else as it doesn't come anywhere near the likes of Shogun Assassin ( 1980 ) . Technically Invincible Super Chan is a little rough around the edges , there's a hilarious moment where the Invincible Super Chan is talking to his wife against a sunset but the sunset , sky & clouds are a painted backdrop & you can see the actors shadows on the sun ! I liked the locations & costumes which looked suitably ancient & oriental . The acting is hard to call as it was shot in Cantonese & badly dubbed into English , Invincible Super Chan is absolutely hilarious to listen too with some really awful dialogue . Invincible Super Chan is a film which is hard to call , it makes for terrific entertainment but in all honesty it's a poor film in every other regard . Good for some laughs but little else I'm afraid .
" Are you coming . . . or are you just breathing hard ? " Average sci-fi / horror .	Screamers is set on the war ravaged mining planet of Sirius 6B during the year 2078 , a group of rebellious miners who call themselves the ' Alliance ' revolted against their company N . E . B . or the New Economic Block when it was discovered that the revolutionary fuel they were mining for them called Berynium produced lethal amounts of radioactive gas & as a result a long 10 year war between the two has raged . Joe Hendricksson ( Peter Weller ) is the commander of the Alliance when one day a lone N . E . B . soldier ( Sylvain Masse ) hand delivers a plea for peace & to set up a meeting . Soon after a N . E . B . spacecraft crashes near the Alliance's headquarter's which contained soldiers & weapons on their way to another planet rich in Berynium , the N . E . B . were going to leave everyone else on Sirius 6B to rot as a new source of Berynium has been found . Hendricksson decides to head to the N . E . B . base & discuss terms with whoever is left & takes the one & only survivor from the crash Jefferson ( Andrew Lauer ) along with him . Once there they discover almost everyone slaughtered & the few survivors talking of killer robots left over from the war known as Screamers that have evolved to mimic a human being perfectly , trusting anyone suddenly becomes very difficult . . . This Canadian , American & Japanese co-production was directed by Christian Duguay & is an average sci-fi horror at best . The script by Dan O'Bannon & Miguel Tejada-Flores was based on the short story ' Second Variety ' by Philip K . Dick & to be honest it feels like it as there just wasn't enough of a story here to maintain my interest . For a start Screamers is far too slow , after a promising opening scene things settle down & plod along for the next 90 odd minutes & I just found it very difficult to get excited about anything in Screamers . Don't get me wrong as I don't think it's not without some merit but I thought it was pretty forgettable stuff . The character's are clichéd , the situations they find themselves in are & various other films have more than a passing influence on Screamers like The Thing ( 1982 ) & the mistrust of each other , lots of soldiers with guns in futuristic settings reminds of Aliens ( 1986 ) & robotic killing machines mimicking people was done decades earlier ( & better ) in The Terminator ( 1984 ) . There is also a fair bit of political nonsense & a slightly over complicated war that seemed a bit too complex . Director Duguay does a pretty good job , some of the snow covered , post apocalyptic wasteland landscapes give Screamers a nice atmosphere & feel to it with some really good matte painting as well . The action scenes are flat & not very exciting unfortunately , just imagine lots of people running around in dark corridors . Screamers could have done with some decent action scenes , the opening sequence of the N . E . B . soldier being sliced ' n ' diced by a Screamer is as good as it gets . There is also a disappointing lack of gore , a few severed limbs & some splashes of blood is as good as it gets . With a supposed budget of about $20 , 000 , 000 I have to admit that I would liked to have seen more on screen , there are no big name actors , no big action scenes , limited special effects , limited locations & a few run down factory locations . As a whole 20 big ones seems like a lot of money considering the end product . The acting was OK but no one will remember Weller for anything other than Robocop ( 1987 ) will they ? Screamers is an OK film , it's generally well made with that Hollywood polish to it but I found it rather forgettable , a bit dull & lacklustre . Don't expect an all guns blazing sci-fi shoot-'em-up because Screamers isn't it , watch Aliens again instead as it's far superior in every way .
I didn't think it was too bad actually .	Soul Survivors starts as teenager Cassie ( Melissa Sagemiller ) moves out of her home to attend Middleton University in Chicago , there her current boyfriend Sean ( Casey Affleck ) , her ex-boyfriend Matt ( Wes Bentley ) & his current girlfriend Annie ( Eliza Dushku ) all decide to go out clubbing together . However emotions run high & while driving back to the campus they are involved in a serious car accident in which Sean is killed . Three weeks later after the funeral & Cassie is trying to get on with her life but she starts to see Sean , she starts to see people chasing her who she thinks are out to kill her , she experiences hallucinations & her life begins to fall apart as she tries to understand what is happening to her . . . Written & directed by Stephen Carpenter a lot of people seem to hate Soul Survivors which is fair enough , there's absolutely nothing that says anyone has to like it in any way shape or form but I have to say I did actually like it to a degree . Originally made as an ' R ' rated film Soul Survivors was cut down to get a ' PG-13 ' & thus appeal to a larger audience with the obligatory uncut version ( called the ' The Killer Cut ' ) being released on DVD shortly after , I will be basing my comments on the original shorter theatrical cut . The script has a few interesting ideas that I liked , I never quite knew what the makers were aiming for as it seems to switch between a psychological supernatural horror & a plain teen slasher ( it starts off like a carbon copy of I Know What You Did Last Summer ( 1997 ) with a car accident involving drunk teens ) & I quite liked the unpredictability of it . At just over eighty odd minutes at least it's short , it's not the quickest film ever or even the most incident packed but it kept me interested throughout . I liked the character's & the mystery based plot had me fairly intrigued & I definitely wanted to know how it was going to finish . While watching Soul Survivors I suspect many people just thought it was various unconnected subplots that go nowhere & make no sense but I thought the ending was great & while it's a bit silly & maybe a bit of a cop out I thought it explained all the mysterious events neatly & tidily enough . I was going to say that Soul Survivors stole it's twist ending from Dead End ( 2003 ) but then I realised Soul Survivors was made two years prior , in fact both twist endings are basically exactly the same but since Soul Survivors came first I have to give this film the credit for it . Director Carpenter does alright , there could have been a few more scares & more gore ( even ' The Killer Cut ' is supposedly pretty tame & bloodless ) but it sure does look good with some great cinematography . Although having said that I brought a new High Definition Sony telly yesterday & Soul Survivors was the first film I had seen on it so maybe it was just the sheer quality of the picture that impressed me , it did look bloody good though . There are some lesbian overtones but like the gore they are played down & very tame . With a supposed budget of about $14 , 000 , 000 Soul Survivors flopped at the box-office but it has good production values & is very well made . Filmed largely in Cicago in Illinois . The acting is alright , I quite liked all the character's & the young teen actors are suitably good looking . Soul Survivors is a film that most people seem to dislike , I wasn't expecting much at all with it's bad reputation but I actually ended up rather liking it for some strange reason I can't quite put my finger on .
" There's no coffee here in Nilbog . . . it's the devil's drink . " - Fair enough mate . So bad it's great .	Troll 2 starts as Michael ( George Hardy ) & Diana Waits ( Margo Prey ) along with their two children Joshua ( Michael Stephenson ) & Holly ( Connie Young ) prepare to go on vacation for a month out in the country in a small town called Nilbog which has a population of 26 , hey I said it was small . Once there Joshua quickly realises that the town is full of Goblins since Nilbog is Goblin spelt backwards , he also discovers that the evil Goblins want to turn his family into vegetables & eat them because that's what Goblins eat . Can he save his family & stop the evil Goblins & their queen Creedence ( Deborah Reed ) ? Originally shot under the title Goblins & re-title Troll 2 to cash in on the mildly successful Empire Pictures fantasy horror film Troll ( 1986 ) this Italian production was written & directed by Claudio Fragasso under the pseudonym of Drake Floyd & is a unique viewing experience if nothing else . Troll 2 is one of those films which you have to watch , mere word typed on my computer cannot possibly do it justice in how unrelentingly bad yet throughly entertaining it is at the same time . Troll 2 was made by an Italian crew in America with an American cast who apparently offered to make the dialogue sound more natural & actually make sense but the director told them to say it as he wrote it which is why the dialogue is simply hilarious , in an early scene Holly warns her boyfriend that if her father found him he'd ' cut your nuts off & eat them ' , OK so the cutting off of his nuts is a reasonable sounding threat but then eat them ? It just sounds hilarious & the way it's delivered by the actor's add a lot as it's obvious they are uncomfortable with their lines but their being paid to say them so what can they do ? The story is quite good in parts , I liked the idea of the Goblins ( the word Troll is never mentioned during the film ) turning people into vegetables so they can eat them but the ghostly Grandfather thing is awful & the way Joshua saves himself from the Goblins at the end is to start eating a Baloney sandwich in one of single greatest worst moments in cinematic history if that makes sense . I don't know what to say really , Troll 2 is a film that defies any logical explanation , I mean what on Earth was going on with the guy buried under a load of popcorn ? It's an impossible film to recommend as it's generally considered by many to be the worst film ever made which is a notion I couldn't disagree more with , hell it's hilariously funny & entertaining so in that respect why is that a bad thing ? Sure , it doesn't work on a dramatic level but who said every film ever made had to ? Director Fragasso has taken a lot of stick for turning in a film this bad but again I have to disagree that it's the worst directed film ever because it's clearly not , I have seen ( or should that be endured ? ) many films technically & conceptually worse than Troll 2 & that's a simple fact . It's not particularly scary & you should go into Troll 2 with your tongue in cheek . Again some say Troll 2 has the worst special effects ever & again I strongly disagree , I'm not saying the special effects in Troll 2 are good , far from it , but I can point to literally dozens of films which have inferior effects . The Goblins themselves look pretty cheap but their masks are sort of gross , with a bit more time & money they might have looked quite good & their costumes are just potato sacks . There's not much gore , there's a cut off hand & some people ' bleed ' green blood but that's about it . A special mention goes to Deborah Reed as the Goblin queen , her performance has to be seen to be believed as it's school panto level , she rolls all of her R's & makes such exaggerated facial movements you can't take your eyes off her , oh & she's a dab hand with a chainsaw too . . . Made for a couple of hundred thousand dollars Troll 2 has weak production values , it looks cheap mainly because it is although I think it has a certain charm . Shot in a town called Porterville in Utah apparently . The acting is atrocious but extremely watchable in a really hammy way , having said that I can point to films with just as bad performances as this & they weren't trying to make stupid broken English dialogue written by an Italian with little grasp of the language sound plausible . George Hardy is now a successful dentist apparently . Troll 2 is an unbelievable film , it's a film words simply can't do justice . I can't recommend it but I have to say I'd rather watch this low budget laugh a minute horror flick again than something like the dire & drab Hide and Seek ( 2005 ) with Robert De Niro which I simply couldn't watch all of & turned it off after 20 minutes because it was so rubbish . Most people seem to hate Troll 2 but I'm not most people & I don't give a damned about anyone else's opinion , I liked it but not for the reasons the makers intended .
" Maybe I'm drunk today , tomorrow I'll be sober , BUT YOU ! WILL ALWAYS BE A FAGGOT ! " Average Van Damme action flick .	Double Impact starts in Hong Kong where a team of Triad hit men kill Paul ( Andy Armstrong ) & Katherine Wagner ( Sarah-Jane Varley ) , however they fail to kill their two 6 month old twins who are rescued by Paul's friend Frank Avery ( Geoffrey Lewis ) who takes one to America & their nanny who dumps the other outside a Hong Kong orphanage . . . Jump forward 25 years where Frank & Chad ( co-producer Jean-Claude Van Damme ) run a Californian karate studio , Frank has tracked Chad's twin brother Alex ( Jean-Claude Van Damme again ) down in Hong Kong & together they fly out there . Frank introduces the two & reveal that their parents were murdered by a Triad gang run by slimy businessman Nigel Griffith ( Alan Scarfe ) & underworld boss Raymond Zhang ( Philip Chang ) , Frank convinces them to join forces , take them both down & avenge their parents . . . Co-written , co-produced & directed by Sheldon Lettich this is the first time JCVD plays twins although it wouldn't be the last , Double Impact was one of JCVD's earlier efforts just prior to his first big hit Universal Soldier ( 1992 ) & I didn't think it was anything special . The script by Lettich & JCVD ( I wonder which one thought up the sex scene where JVCD gets to do the business with Danielle . . . ) is a pretty by-the-numbers out for revenge action flick , the added interest of having two JCVD's doesn't really add anything to the film & some may actually see this as a reason to avoid Double Impact . It's all rather predictable with all the bad guy's not being able to shoot straight , not being able to fight properly & are just generally incompetent while the good guy's hit everything they shoot at , they can take an absolute pounding yet walk away with minor cuts & bruises & of course they never , ever run out of bullets while they seem able to avoid the attentions of the local police despite running around beating people up , killing people & destroying property . The story itself isn't particularly engrossing or original , the dialogue isn't that good , it's full of clichés , the character's are poor & the action scenes are repetitive . To be honest it moves along at a reasonable pace , it never bores , there are the usual unintentionally funny moments because of bad scripting , duff editing or horrible acting so I suppose it entertains on a dumb brainless action flick level but there are much better examples out there if you take the time to look . Director Lettich does OK but it's all rather generic , bland & a touch lifeless . There's nothing particularly memorable here , there are a few predictably one sided martial arts fights , shoot outs & a few explosions although how did the fire on the boat magically put itself out ? The entire hull full of flammable barrels explode yet in the very next shot the boat is fine & there isn't a single flame anywhere to be seen ! Most of the scenes involving JCVD as twins is achieved through doubles & not showing them together in the same frame but when the film does the effects are less than satisfactory although ironically these days you could probably do the split screen thing with more convincing results on a home PC today with a decent movie making package . Other than that Lettich has Alex smoke a cigar whenever he's on screen as a sort of trademark while he has Chad dress in brightly coloured tight fitting clothes neither of which are very subtle . The fights are OK but get sort of boring as JCVD never seems to get injured or tired & they are just so one sided . With a supposed budget of about $16 , 000 , 000 Double Impact did reasonable business , it's well made using nice enough locations in Hong Kong & I particularly liked the ending which is set on-top of a huge crane . The acting isn't that good , JCVD can't act , Geoffrey Lewis is awful & no-one else impressed either . Porn actress & low budget horror film starlet Julie Strain makes an early screen appearance . Double Impact is an average JCVD vehicle , it doesn't make much sense when you think about it & generally speaking it's pretty predictable but if your looking for a few mindless fights & a few laughs then this will pass the time harmlessly enough .
Worth watching for some laughs but that's it .	Red Water is set in the Louisiana swamps & rivers where a company has set up a mini drilling platform & are searching for oil , meanwhile environmentalist Dr . Kelli Raymond ( Kirsty Swanson ) has hired John Sanders ( Lou Diamond Phillips ) her ex-husbands fishing boat to take her to the rig so she can conduct some tests to see what effect the drilling is having on the local wildlife . To complicate things further two gangsters Ice ( Coolio ) & Brett ( Langly Kirkwood ) are searching for 3 million dollars in stolen drug money in the same stretch of river & if that wasn't enough there's an angry killer man eating Bullshark swimming around that was hurt in an explosion set off by the oil rig workers . One thing leads to another , people get eaten , people get greedy & when it all kicks off someone has to save the day . . . Executive produced & directed by Charles Robert Carner this is a pretty bad film although I have to say if you go into it in the right frame of mind there are a few laughs to be had here . The script by J . D . Feigelson & Chris Mack doesn't seem to take itself too seriously & at least it moves along at a nice pace so it's not boring & generally speaking there's always something happening but there are so many plot holes , ridiculous scenes & bad dialogue that you really can't take the film seriously . For a start how did a car end up at the bottom of an isolated Louisiana river ? Would someone who makes a living as a fisherman on a boat really not be able to swim ? I mean wouldn't being able to swim be a job requirement ? Steel cranes don't just suddenly collapse for no reason . The drill blows up but then is suddenly & miraculously repaired & in perfect working order again at the end . Could someone really find a gun at the bottom of a river in the middle of the night when they don't even know where it is ? There are other bit & pieces I could mention but I think you get the point . Then there's the character's who are all pretty clichéd , from Lou Diamond Phillips courageous hero to the slimy money hungry company executive & the terrible stereotypical urban gangster that is Coolio with baggy clothes , a bad attitude & a gun . As I said Red Water is decent for a few laughs but anyone looking for another Jaws ( 1975 ) this is a millions from it . Director Carner does OK on what was probably a low budget , he doesn't direct with much pace or excitement though & as a result it's not scary , it has no tension & it's all a bit flat . For some reason the shark seems to take a back seat for most of the film as the hidden money gets more screen time , there's also a green environmental message of the moral variety here as well but there's no great subtly about it & it's nothing we haven't seen before . Forget about any gore , there's some blood & a severed arm but that's about it . Made-for-TV this is meant to be set in Louisiana but was in fact filmed in South Africa & the free holiday was probably the main reason the likes of Diamond Phillips , Kirsty Swanson & Coolio wanted anything to do with it . It's reasonably well made I suppose , the special effects aren't great especially the GCI shark which for most of the time looks pretty rubbish . Red Water is a pretty bad film for sure , so bad it's good film lovers will probably like it though & I thought it was worth a few laughs . Personally I think you could do worse but at the same time you could do better .
" If you so much as scratch anything between your smelly legs I'll blow them off . " Average sequel in an average series .	Watchers Reborn starts in a science lab where Dr . Grace Hudson ( Lisa Wilcox ) has been experimenting with DNA to create a mutated monster known as the ' Outsider ' & a super intelligent Golden Retriever named Einstein who are telepathically linked to each other . Since everyone likes Einstein & give him pats on the head , they talk to him nicely & spoil him with lots of dog biscuits the Outsider becomes jealous & resentful of him . The Outsider manages to escape in an attempt to kill Einstein but the clever little fella he is Einstein manages to crawl through an air vent & to the safety of Los Angeles outside the lab , however the Outsider is still on his tail ( Ha ! ) . Homicide Detectives Murphy ( Mark Hamil ) & his partner Gus ( Gary Collins ) are called to a murder & discover a horribly mutilated security guard together with Einstein , Murphy takes a liking to Einstein & decides to take him to the pound ( ! ) . Gus isn't having any of it & takes Einstein home with him but is soon killed by the Outsider in it's relentless search for Einstein , as Murphy investigates he becomes aware of the truth & a target of NSA agents who want to keep the whole thing quiet . . . Directed by John Carl Buechler who also is credited with the special creature effects Watchers Reborn is the fourth entry in the Watchers series of films & to date the last . The script by Sean Dash is based on the novel by Dean R . Koontz but I'm not sure how closely . The film moves along at a fair pace , it drags a little in the middle but it passed the time well enough & just about enough happened to maintain my interest . Watchers Reborn isn't exactly the best film ever made that's for sure but if your expectations aren't too high & you like cheap horror films you could do a lot worse . Watchers Reborn features telepathic monsters , shadowy Government agencies , DNA experiments , a trial of Oranges , a Golden Retriever who appears to be more intelligent than half the people I know ( & he can write better too ) & the one & only Luke Skywalker . What more do you want ? I've seen better but I've also seen worse . Special effects man turned director Buechler does an OK job , the film isn't much to look at but then what did you expect ? I've noticed that the Outsider in each Watchers film looks completely different to the one in the previous entry , this time the Outsider looks more like a Werewolf & in certain shots like a Gorilla , overall it's a pretty cheap looking monster suit . There's some reasonable gore , someone has their eye pulled out , there are plenty of spilled guts & blood , severed hands & arms . The action scenes are dumb & not that exciting , it's not scary & I don't get why the Outsider never kills Murphy ? The Outsider kills everyone else he meets but not Murphy it just hits him & knocks him out , answers on a postcard please . Technically Watchers Reborn is pretty cheap looking , it's OK but that's about the best I can say about it . The acting isn't up to much & what the Hell happened to Mark Hamil after Star Wars ( 1977 ) ? How did he end up in something like this ? Watchers Reborn is an OK time waster , it'll pass 90 odd minutes but little else . The other Watchers films are Watchers ( 1988 ) , Watchers II ( 1990 ) & Watchers III ( 1994 ) which I personally think is the best of the bunch even though that ain't saying much .
Not my favourite comic book superhero flick .	X-Men is set in the near future where evolution has gone haywire , strange genetic mutations have begun to reveal themselves & ' normal ' people including politicians are scared of them , their powers & what their existence means . Treated like freaks & outcasts mutants are shunned by normal society & Senator Kelly ( Bruce Davison ) is trying to get a law passed in which every mutant has to be registered & therefore controlled . Not everyone likes his idea & evil mutant Magneto ( Ian McKellen ) who can control metal objects with his powerful psychic abilities wants to wage a war against normal human beings as he believes mutants are the future . However Professor Charles Xavier ( Patrick Stewart ) runs a private school in New York for young mutants & also leads a team of mutants known as X-Men who use their unique abilities for good & are determined to stop Magneto & his evil plans to wipe out the human race . . . Directed by Bryan Singer this along with Spider-Man ( 2002 ) really kicked off the whole Marvel comic book superhero trend that has continued with the likes of Iron Man ( 2008 ) , The Incredible Hulk ( 2008 ) , Punisher : War Zone ( 2008 ) from the Marvel stable & Hancock ( 2008 ) , Hellboy II : The Golden Army ( 2008 ) & of course the mega hit The Dark Knight ( 2008 ) this year alone . To be honest I am not a huge fan of the comic book superhero genre & I personally just don't think character's designed to be drawn in 2-D make the transition to live action film that well . With the possible exception of the Blade trilogy of films & the Spider-Man franchise I just can't get that excited by them . Here in X-Men the film concentrates on only some of the character's , the actual comic books contained more X-Men & evil mutant bad guys for them to fight with the main focus of the story being Wolverine who goes from shunned outcast into a superhero . The script is alright but I really can't raise any more enthusiasm for it , the plot about Magneto bombarding politicians & world leaders with radiation to turn them into mutants is rather basic actually , X-Men is more of a character driven film but as I said I just don't think character's like the X-Men translate to film that well . There are obvious allegories & references to racism , intolerance & acceptance too just to try & add some dramatic weight & give the audience a moral message to think about . The X-Men , mutants & their powers can often look silly , some of the CGI computer effects don't do them any favours & it's hard to relate to them in any way as ' people ' . At only just over 100 odd minutes at least it's a lot shorter than the average two hour plus superhero film , it moves along at a decent pace & it tells a reasonable story but I must say I couldn't get into it , I couldn't get into the world of the X-Men & what they were about & I did lose interest in the film & it's plot quite quickly although I did manage to watch it all without becoming bored . The special effects are generally very good as one would expect , there's plenty of CGI ranging from the impressive to the substandard Playstation game graphics . I was also a bit disappointed in the villains , Sabretooth doesn't do much , Mystique is very blue while Toad just looks daft & if I was him I would be very upset if I saw the immense & useful power mutants like Magneto & Wolverine had & I had to be happy with pale green skin & a long tongue ! The final climatic battle is set on the Statue of Liberty & is quite good as are all the set-pieces but I couldn't honestly say they were much better than quite good . I only saw it last night & the only scenes I remember are the ones at the train station & the final fight . Apparently 20th century Fox originally approached Tim Burton to direct by turned it down , imagine how that X-Men Tim Burton style might have turned out ! With a supposed budget of $75 , 000 , 000 X-Men was fairly low budget for a summer blockbuster which usually have $100 , 000 , 000 plus budgets . Although set entirely in the US the film was shot almost entirely in Canada . The acting is OK , Patrick Stewart & Sir Ian McKellen add the distinguished weight while Hollywood starts of the day Halle Berry & Hugh Jackman get plum roles as X-Men . X-Men is a film that I can't say I loved & yet I can't say I hated , I just found it watchable & not much else , nothing more or nothing less . There are worse films out there to be sure but if your not a comic book superhero fan than you can live without seeing X-Men . Followed by X2 ( 2003 ) & X-Men : The Last Stand ( 2006 ) while two money grabbing spin-offs X-Men Origins : Magneto ( 2009 ) & X-Men Origins : Wolverine ( 2009 ) are due out next year .
Not as good as the other Cube films .	Cube 2 : Hypercube starts as Kate Filmore ( Kari Matchett ) awakes to find herself in a square room , a cube if you will . On each of the six faces of the cube is a hatch which opens & leads to an identical cube whose hatches lead to even more identical cube shaped rooms . As she goes from cube to cube she meets other people , there's Simon ( Geraint Wyn Davies ) , a blind girl named Sasha ( Grace Lynn Kung ) , a computer games designer Max ( Matthew Ferguson ) , Jerry ( Neil Crone ) , a senile old woman name Mrs Paley ( Barbara Gordon ) , lawyer Julia ( Lindsey Connell ) & General Thomas Maguire ( Bruce Gray ) who all find themselves trapped within an endless succession of cubes with no food , water or idea how to get out . As they learn about each other they must work together to try & figure out how to escape the seeming endlessness of the cube . . . This Canadian production was directed by Andrzej Sekula who was also the director of photography & was the first sequel to the ingenious & rather funky sci-fi / horror film Cube ( 1997 ) . I have now seen all the Cube films , although admittedly some months apart & in the wrong order , & I have to say Cube 2 : Hypercube is my least favourite although it's still probably worth a watch . The script by Sean Hood , Ernie Barbarash & Lauren McLaughlin takes the basic Cube premise of strangers being stuck in a cube & having to figure a way out & puts a couple of twists on things which in my opinion are not effective . The simplicity & fascination of the original is lacking here as the filmmakers introduce this silly fourth dimension thing which means all sorts of time-lines meet each other & gravity starts to get messed up , I just liked the pureness of the original Cube which is just absent here . For some reason they've done away with the bobby traps in the rooms as well , surely that's a mistake ? I also didn't like the somewhat predictable twist ending & the character's are poor this time around with most of them having some tenuous & dull reason to be there . The other factor to bear in mind is that while the Cube films are unique generally speaking they aren't amongst themselves which means there are another two films that are almost identical to this & out of the three films Cube 2 : Hypercube is the worst . Director Andrzej does an OK job although there's not much you can do to enliven a film up set entirely within one room shaped like a cube . He seems to like spinning the camera round peoples heads which can get a bit dizzying at times . There's no gore or violence this time around & why they did away with the bobby traps I'll never know . Technically Cube 2 : Hypercube is alright , what could go wrong with such a basic concept ? Having said that some of the CGI effects look really cheap & are unimpressive . The acting was OK but nothing special . Cube 2 : Hypercube is an OK watch , if you've never seen a Cube film before then you'll probably like it more than those that have . I suppose there's nothing really wrong with it other than it had an almost impossible task of following the original which it does with no great distinction . Average at best . The last , to date , film in the series was Cube Zero ( 2004 ) which is better than this .
Disappointing anthology .	Twilight Zone : The Movie starts one dark night as two friends ( Dan Aykroyd & Albert Brooks ) drive along a deserted winding road , the tape player in the car breaks & they then have to entertain themselves at which point the subject of scary stories arise . . . William Connor ( Vic Morrow ) is a very bitter & angry man , he has just lost out on a promotion to a Jew & he is far from happy about it . He launches into a scathing & racist attack on non-Americans as onlookers from all races listen in disgust . William storms out but finds himself in Nazi occupied France where , as an American , he learns the harsh brutal reality about racism from the experts . . . Sunnyvale Rest Home , a place where the old go to live out their final few years of life watching T . V . all day . However Sunnyvale's latest resident Mr . Bloom ( Scatman Crothers ) convinces everyone your only as old as you feel . . . A schoolteacher named Helen Foley ( Kathleen Quinlan ) accidentally knocks a young boy named Anthony ( Jeremy Licht ) off his bike , he is OK but the bike is wrecked . Helen gives Anthony a ride home , once there she enters his house from which she may never leave if Anthony has his way . . . John Valentine ( John Lithgow ) is a nervous flier so when there is a violent thunder storm raging outside he becomes very nervous & is prone to panicking . As he stares out the window he sees a humanoid type creature ( Larry Cedar ) on the wing attacking the engine but no-one will believe his crazy sounding story . . . Taking the Twight Zone ( 1959 - 1964 ) name & basic premise this big-screen incarnation was a huge disappointment . The first mini story set in the car is decent & gets things off to a reasonable start but then things go down hill quickly . The first story was written & directed by John Landis & to my eyes is poor , the basic theme of racism & that it's bad & you shouldn't do it is very heavy handed & has no subtlety whatsoever . Add that to the on set problems in which lead actor Vic Morrow was killed in a helicopter accident which I'm positive altered how the segment was supposed to finish , as a whole the story has no punchline or twist & is extremely predictable . Imagine my surprise when I learned the second story was directed by Steven Spielberg because frankly this doesn't belong in a sci-fi / horror film as it's sickly , feel-good & sentimental nonsense that Disney would be embarrassed to put their name to . The third segment directed by Joe Dante is better but while it has a decent premise it goes nowhere & again where's the twist ending ? Finally it's George Miller's turn & this is far & away the best story but even then it's merely a rehash of an episode from the original series that starred William Shatner . As a whole the stories disappoint , there is very little horror & apart from the last one they are all very forgettable , having said that what's forgettable again I can't remember . . . This seems almost aimed at children , there's no gore & the scares are absolutely minimal . The last story has a certain something about it but the rest are dull , bland & lacklustre to say the least . With a supposed budget of about $10 , 000 , 000 Twight Zone : The Movie was a well funded film & in that sense it frustrates that more wasn't done . It's well made for sure but this has to go down as a wasted opportunity . The acting is OK & I have no problems in that regard but one has to feel for Morrow who was apparently decapitated along with two young children . . . Twilight Zone : The Movie was hugely disappointing , the fourth story is good but as I've already said it's nothing that wasn't done 20 twenty years prior back in 1963 when the original episode that it was based on was made . Very little to recommend here I'm afraid .
Semi documentary horror film .	The Town that Dreaded Sundown is set in the small town of Texarkana in Arkansas in 1946 a mere eight months after World War II where two young lovers are brutally attacked by a large man with a sack over his head ( Bud Davis ) , they are found the next morning barely alive . Deputy Norman Ramsey ( Andrew Prine ) is on the case , precisely three weeks later the killer who has become known as ' The Phantom ' strikes again only this time his victims don't survive . Fear grips the town of Texarkana & Texas ranger Capitan J . D . Morales ( Ben Johnson ) is brought in to co-ordinate the manhunt but will the Phantom be caught before he kills again ? Produced & directed by Charles B . Pierce , who also appears in the film as the annoying comedy relief deputy Benson , this is an early attempt at a teen slasher revolving around the real life Phantom murderer who killed five people & injured many other's & to this day his identity remains a mystery although one suspects with the forensic advances we have today if the same crimes were committed today he'd be caught . The script by Earl E . Smith unusually has large chunks of narration as what's going on is spelled out with no attempt to tell the story through proper storytelling or it's character's . I'm not sure how accurate this film is in it's portrayal of the real life crimes it depicts but I would have thought it isn't particularly faithful . I also found The Town that Dreaded Sundown extremely repetitive , the Phantom attacks then there's a large chunk of narration describing the facts & then we see the local police going about their investigations & this is basically how the entire film goes until the end where the Phantom escapes & seemingly gives up his life of crime . Apparently the Phantom was never caught & there were no obvious motives for his crimes although I don't really understand why he was walking around a sandpit with a potato sack over his head & I'm sceptical about the historic accuracy regarding the end ( the trombone bit never happened that's for sure ) . I'm not sure many will like the ending either as nothing is revealed or cleared up & it just ends . The Town that Dreaded Sundown ( I hate that title ) feels like a slasher film as our killer chases & murders screaming teens , I just felt it was so empty & the comedy relief copper played by director Pierce as already noted who can't drive properly just feels very out of place & awkward . Director Pierce does OK but why did he set the first two murders during the night & then use day-for-night filming ? It looks terrible & someone should tell the filmmakers shadows don't appear during the night ! The murder scenes aren't particularly gory although they are quite long & fairly brutal for the time it was made , there's not much atmosphere & I didn't think it was scary either . The period design & setting is OK although it's noticeable that Pierce shoots in woods & country roads where he can avoid anything that could place the film in the 70's rather than the 40's . The killers resemblance to Jason in Friday the 13th Part 2 is very apparent & I'd be surprised if the makers of that hadn't been inspired by The Town that Dreaded Sundown . Technically the film is OK , there's no special effects as such & it's well made I suppose . The acting is alright but nothing special , no-one seems that interested . The Town that Dreaded Sundown is an odd film , I'm not sure who it's meant to appeal to as horror fans will find it dull & predictable with little horror or suspense while anyone looking for a accurate recreation of the real life events depicted will also be disappointed because this ain't it . It's watchable on a certain level but nothing I'd want to see again or am particularly fond of .
I quite liked this .	When a Stranger Calls starts as teenager Jill Johnson ( Camilla Belle ) has been told by her father ( Clark Gregg ) she has to babysit two children instead of being allowed to go to a big party after running up an enormous cell-phone bill , he drives her to the home of the Mandrakis ' who are rich & their house is very nice if nothing else . Left alone in the hi-tech house with the two kids asleep in bed the phone rings & Jill answers it only to hear heavy breathing on the other end . The calls continue & become increasingly scary as Jill is trapped inside the house alone . Or is she alone ? Directed by Simon West this was probably made because of a spate of successful remakes of 70's & 80's horror films , a remake of When a Stranger Calls ( 1979 ) this updated modern version is actually quite good & I liked it a lot more than I thought I would . First off I have to admit that I haven't seen the original When a Stranger Calls ( although I do actually have it on VHS that has been sitting around for year's & I just haven't been bothered to watch it yet ) so I can't in all honestly compare the two but I wouldn't be surprised if this remake is slightly better than the original but without seeing it I can't be sure . Anyway , I think this remake has a nice tight , taught script that pares the story down to the bare minimum & the majority of the film sees Jill in the house on her own getting more & more worried before the twist kicks in about two thirds through & the tone goes from edgy thriller to teen slasher . The film moves along at a really good pace , I was surprised to see that it lasted for 90 odd minutes because it felt much shorter , I liked Jill as a character & I didn't mind that we didn't find out much about the killer . On the negative side the film can get a bit repetitive , it's very tame without any proper violence or pay-off & it can be a bit predictable as well as the twist used is a well known one . The most striking difference between this remake & the original is the setting , the original saw a fairly mundane family home whereas here the production team has gone to town in creating a fabulously sumptuous & visually interesting house for the sinister events to unfold in . This is the sort of modern , hi-tech home so full of toys & gadgets most of us mere mortals dream of owning . Unfortunately this was made with a teen audience in mind & therefore there's no blood or gore or violence or nudity . Not good although there is a brief shot of a cat eating a bird . The film actually has a fair amount of tension & suspense which I didn't expect & there's a terrific jump scare moment right at the end which genuinely did make me jump ( a bit ) & I can't remember the last time a film did that . With a supposed budget of about $15 , 000 , 000 this has slick production values although it's set in mostly the same house . The acting is OK & the cast are suitably attractive while it's always nice to see genre favourite Lance Henriksen involved . When a Stranger Calls impressed me , I am not saying it's the best psycho thriller ever but as a teen horror remake I thought it would be rubbish & basically to my surprise it wasn't . That's just about as much as I could have hoped for really .
As low brow as a film can get .	Pervert ! starts as James ( Sean Andrews ) arrives at his father's ranch after a term in college , he plans to stay there for the summer . His father Hezekiah ( Darrell Sandeen ) has shacked up with the ample chested young girl Cheryl ( Mary Carey ) who happens to be young enough to be his daughter , James & Cheryl quickly fall for each other & have sex , lots of it . Hezekiah finds out , the next morning & Cheryl has mysteriously disappeared . Hezekiah quickly finds another young girl Alisha ( Sally Jean ) , she to falls for his son James & she too disappears although both her's & Cheryl's dead bodies eventually turn up much to Hezekiah's & James ' surprise . Who , or what killed them & why ? Co-produced & directed by Jonathan Yudis who also appears in the film as the greasy gay car mechanic this is an unashamed homage , or rip-off whichever way you look at it , of the exploitation / sexploitation films of the 70's & 80's & I can see how some might like it but I personally didn't think much of it . The script by co-producer Mike Davis certainly tries to pack in as many bad taste gags , bare breasts , nudity , sex , cheap looking gore & silly plot twists in it's slight 80 odd minute duration as it can which in a way makes it watchable on a stupid juvenile level . If you think the idea of seeing a pretty girl torturing a man by sticking her bum in his face & farting , watching a big burly man ( played by director Yudis ) literally drop kick his young son like he was a football or seeing an evil stop-motion animated penis with a face trying to murder people sounds funny then you'll love Pervert ! , if however you like your entertainment with a little more class then this is not the film for you . At just over 80 minutes it moves along at a fast pace , I will admit there's always something happening as it's pretty successful at what it sets out to do . Unfortunately I didn't like the pre pubescent jokes which are a naughty school boys dream come true , I have to say I didn't laugh once during Pervert ! & in fact I didn't even smile either . Take away all the silliness & homages the actual story is terrible with some awful plot twists & character's . Director Yudis shoots this on what looks like a camcorder , it's certainly not shot on film . There are loads of naked female breasts although no full frontal nudity . The blood & gore isn't anything to shout about , there's a decapitated head & some very watery looking blood . The film is quite annoying to watch at times , there's loads of comedy sound effects , stupid editing , random shots of naked women that have nothing to do with anything & pretty low production values . I'd have thought this was pretty low budget , no one of any note is in it & it looks cheap with a terrible looking sop-motion animated penis . I kid you not . The acting is rubbish , I didn't recognise anyone in it although I wouldn't be surprised if some of the girls in this were better know for porn film . Pervert ! can be quite fun in a really low brow juvenile camp sort of way , as a dramatic film it's absolutely worthless though & apart from the exploitation / bad movie crowd this isn't going to really appeal to anyone . I thought it was worth a one off watch but I doubt I'll want to see it again .
Average religious supernatural nonsense .	The Prophecy starts several years after wannabe priest Thomas Daggett ( Elias Koteas ) had lost his faith & now working as a homicide detective is assigned to the murder of an eyeless , ageless & hermaphroditic dead man who was pushed out of an apartment buildings window . The only clue on his body is an ancient handwritten bible which leads Daggett to a small US town in search of the grave of a Korean war Colonel accused of human sacrifice & into a battle between warring Angels some of whom feel resentment towards the human race because of God's affection for them & one in particular , Gabriel ( Christopher Walken ) , wants to steal the Colonel's soul in order to destroy the human race ( not sure how ) but it has been transfered into schoolgirl Mary ( Moriah Shining Dove Snyder ) & Daggett sets out to protect her from Gabriel & hopefully save the human race from total destruction . All in a days work I suppose . Written & directed by Gregory Widen this very religious themed supernatural horror flick is an OK way to pass the time I suppose but I have to say apart from the always watchable Christopher Walken & some nice cinematography I didn't think that much of it overall . Personally I think the biggest problem I had with The Prophecy was that it spends far too much time on obscure religious themes & ideas which never really pay-off , it tries to take conventional ideas & accepted belief's & twist them around a bit by actually making Angels evil rather than the whiter than white portrayals seen elsewhere but to my eyes Gabriel just looked like an ordinary guy & therefore this distinction was somewhat lost on me & not being religious in the slightest also didn't help me get the most of The Prophecy . There one or two decent sequences & the initial detective mystery thriller vibe going on as Daggett investigates the murder is quite cool but once it switches to the small town setting things just play out in rather standard horror fantasy film fashion . I am not saying The Prophecy is a bad film or that it's not worth watching but I just thought it got bogged down in a lot of unconvincing religious nonsense that I personally found a bit dull . The character's are alright , while the Angels are given all sorts of silly sounding dialogue to have fun with the two main leads are actually a bit flat & don't have much personality . I must say that the photography for The Prophecy is rather nice with some nicely lit & tinted scenes , this certainly has a little bit of style about it . There's not much in the way of gore , there's some blood splatter , people are seen impaled on spikes during a flashback , there's a dead mutilated body seen on an autopsy table & a ripped out heart at the end . The Prophecy takes itself extremely seriously & the tone is very bleak . With a supposed budget of about $8 , 000 , 000 this actually had a lot of money spent on it & while it did make it's money back at the box-office it was not a major hit although it has spawned quite a few direct-to-video / DVD sequels . Filmed in Arizona . There's a good cast here including Christopher Walken who is always very intense , Virginia Madsen , Viggo Mortensen & Amanda Plummer . Oh , & Eric Stoltz is also in it . The Prophecy is an OK supernatural horror fantasy thriller with heavy religious overtones that I thought was alright but not much more . Followed by The Prophecy II ( 1998 ) , The Prophecy 3 : The Ascent ( 2000 ) , The Prophecy : Uprising ( 2005 ) & The Prophecy : Forsaken ( 2005 ) all of which went straight-to-video / DVD .
Nothing more than mediocre .	Dead Set ( # 1 . 1 ) starts on an ordinary Friday afternoon here in Britain as the reality TV show Big Brother's production team prepares for the live on-air eviction later that night . The cameras are ready . The crowd outside the house is ready . Presenter Davina McCall is ready . However as the team work to bring the show to air something disturbing is happening in the background , there are vague news reports of sudden outbreaks of violence throughout the country & reports of the dead coming back to life & feeding on the living . Soon the zombies reach the Big Brother set as the contestants inside are oblivious to what is happening outside , but not for long as even the famed Big Brother house isn't immune from the odd flesh eating zombie attack ! This British TV mini-series production has been airing the past week or so here & it was heralded with a fairly big advertising campaign & a fair amount of advance publicity , being a huge horror film fan myself I thought anything with flesh eating zombies in it is worth checking out so I did & I ended up being somewhat disappointed in this opening episode . This opening episode actually runs for a little over 45 minutes whereas the following four ( there's one episode per night all week from Monday to Fgriday ) clock in at around 25 minutes apiece so in total the whole thing edited together would run just under two & a half hours . I quite liked the way Dead Set started & I quite liked the Big Brother reality TV show setting for the action to revolve around but not much is done with the idea & I can't help but feel that the whole thing was a cost cutting exercise & for gimmick & publicity purposes only . We never really find much out about the house-mates & Dead Set focuses more on the zombie aspect of the script than the Big Brother thing . None of the character's are very likable & seem to swear a lot for no apparent reason although the obnoxious producer has a few funny foul mouthed lines of dialogue as he orders people around but overall this is just 28 Day Later . . . ( 2002 ) featuring the Big Brother house . There's the London locations , there's the hyperactive fast running zombies & the small group of human fighting for survival . Seen it all before to be honest & this opening episode didn't really impress me at all . Did anyone else also spot the Living Dead at the Manchester Morgue ( 1974 ) & Ginger Snaps ( 2000 ) references here ? I did . While the plot & story are alright in a standard ' people on the run from hordes of zombies ' type way I hated & I mean hated the way this was shot . The shaky hand held camera approach looks awful , just awful . There are many , many times when I literally couldn't tell what was happening , every zombie scene has the camera shake around like it's in the middle of a tornado & the quick fire editing doesn't help either . I honestly thought Dead Set was a real pain to through , it is incredibly frustrating not to be able to see what is going on because the camera won't stay steady . Does anyone out there actually like this sort of film-making ? I don't know anyone & everyone I have spoken to say the same thing , it's next to impossible to see what's going on & surely that can't be considered good film-making ? There's not much gore in this one , a zombie's head is smashed in with a fire extinguisher , a zombie has a pair of scissors stuck in his head , there's some blood splatter , Davina McCall has her throat bitten out & that's all you can make out really . Dead Set ( # 1 . 1 ) as an opening episode is alright if you like horror & zombie films although if you like to actually see what's happening in the films you watch then this is your worst nightmare . Persoanlly I though it was a reasonable three quarters of an hour with a decent pace but I hated the way it was presented & filmed . I am going to watch Dead Set ( # 1 . 2 ) but I won't be in any real hurry .
Nothing special , I prefer the Lundgren version from the late 80's .	The Punisher starts as an illegal arms deal goes bad & Bobby Saint ( James Carpinello ) is shot dead by Federal Agents , it was all a set-up & poor old Bobby has ended up in a body bag because of it . The operation was set up by FBI agent Frank Castle ( Thomas Jane ) & Bobby happens to the son of a powerful & wealthy underworld banker named Howard Saint ( John Travolta ) & when Howard learns of Castle he orders his men to kill Castle & his entire family . Howard's men manage to kill Castle's family but not Frank himself who decides to become a vigilante & go it alone in order to punish those responsible for the brutal slaying of his entire family , it's a long dark , bloody & death filled road but it's one Frank is determined to walk down in pursuit of justice . . . This American German co-production was co-written & directed by Jonathan Hensleigh who manages to turn in a film that is strictly average , it should be noted that since the theatrical version was released an extended by 20 odd minutes cut has been released on DVD & I will be basing my comments on the shorter theatrical cut as I haven't seen the extended one . The script by Hensleigh & Michael France is based on the Marvel comic book character & strangely doesn't feel like a comic book film at all , the Punisher as a character has no superpowers like say Spider-Man or Superman & even the action scenes are relatively low & disappointingly un-comic book like . I was hoping for huge over-the-top set-pieces & action scenes which never came , as a whole The Punisher feels very much like a routine ' one man army on a revenge mission ' action thriller of which there are countless examples out there . The only distinguishing feature of the Punisher himself is his skull motif on his shirt & that's it . The film is utterly predictable as well with the viewer knowing from the first frame that Castle will kill all the bad guy's & avenge his dead family . The character's aren't great , the three comedy relief teenagers who live near Castle feel out of place , Howard Saint is given no background & Castle himself just doesn't seem that cut up about his family . Director Hensleigh does alright but there's nothing particularly special in The Punisher , the action scenes are well choreographed & there's plenty of blood & dead bodies flying around but there's no ' big ' comic book action scenes here & apart from one or two cool looking guns , a bow & arrow & a butterfly knife the weaponry is also rather dull & routine looking . I personally think The Punisher ( 1988 ) staring Dolph Lundgren is far superior to this , despite the lower budget the action scenes are better , it's better paced & less boring , the villains are better , the weaponry from ninja throwing stars to samurai swords to sawn off shotguns to deadly razor sharp earrings are much more fun & feels much more like a comic book as is the film as a whole . In fact I can't think of one aspect of the new Punisher that I liked more than the Lundgren one , I even preferred his beat up old motorbike he drives around on rather than the car he has in this . The violence isn't that excessive , there's plenty of dead bodies , someone gets a knife stuck under their chin & someone gets an arrow through their neck . I was a bit surprised to learn that The Punisher only had a budget of about $15 , 500 , 000 which isn't a lot of money , in fact until recently Steven Seagal's straight-to-video efforts have had higher budgets . Shot in Florida this is well made but not particularly stylish & the only time it tries to be when an explosion caused by the Punisher causes flames in the shape of his skull motif just look silly . The acting is OK , I'm not sure what Travolta is doing in this & I'm not sure how much he was paid as for his previous film Basic ( 2003 ) & one of his next Ladder 49 ( 2004 ) he was paid $20 , 000 , 000 each which is more than the entire budget for The Punisher ! The Punisher is a bit of a disappointment , this could have been a entertaining & ultra violent action flick with a cool comic book feel but instead it feels like a standard average budget revenge flick . Watch the ' 88 Punisher instead as it's a better film in every respect in my opinion . The sequel The Punisher : Welcome Back , Frank ( 2008 ) has been made & will be out soon , probably straight-to-video .
OK thriller .	Panic Room is set in New York City where recently divorced Meg Altman ( Jodie Foster ) & her young daughter Sarah ( Kristen Stewart ) move into a new house which has a panic room built in which is designed for the owners of the house to hide in if the house is broken into . It just so happens that three thieves break into the house that very night in search of twenty odd million dollars hidden in safe by the previous owner who died , both Meg & Sarah make it into the panic room which is impossible to breach from the outside but unfortunately what the thieves want is actually inside the panic room & as such there is stand off as the thieves want to get in while Meg & Sarah want to get out . . . Directed by David Fincher this decent thriller is alright but nothing that special . The script by David Koepp has a pretty solid base story with Meg & her daughter trapped inside the panic room with three thieves wanting to get in & no way of getting outside help , unfortunately the film drags badly & becomes quite repetitive as we get lots of scenes of the thieves arguing & trying to come up with ways of making Meg & Sarah come out . Yawn . Having said that towards the end there's a neat twist in which the roles are reversed as the thieves become trapped in the panic room with Meg outside with a gun waiting to shoot them when they come out . Overall I thought it was alright , I didn't like the character's that much , the dialogue is forgettable & one could say it's far fetched at times but at least it kept me watching . I wouldn't say I was glued to the screen but it did keep me interested although I wouldn't call it brilliant or anything like that & I will have probably completely forgotten all about it by the end of the week . Panic Room also uses the standard Hollywood plot device of diabetes for putting someone is immediate danger of dying , I have diabetes & while what happens in Panic Room is theoretically possible it's very unlikely that Meg would suffer a life threatening hypo ' out of the blue ' like she does ( she is seen eating earlier that night ) & Panic Room like many other films gives the impression that us diabetics will suddenly collapse & die if we don't inject ourselves every two minutes with insulin which is complete crap . Director Fincher does OK , he films everything in very muted colours as is the trend for these sorts of films . There's a surprising amount of CGI computer effects in a film that you would initially have thought wouldn't need many , Fincher has his camera travel up along inside pipes & through ' solid ' floors & wall . Some of the effects are OK while other's look fake . The violence is minimal , there are a few gunshot wounds including a couple to the head & someone is beaten up . I wouldn't call it scary or that atmospheric but there are a few scenes which manage to raise some tension . The film reminds me of Phone Booth ( 2002 ) made the same year since it's stars are trapped in a single location with some bad guy's keeping them there but while Phone Booth tried to say something & only lasted 80 odd minutes Panic Room doesn't & didn't . According to the IMDb's ' Trivia ' section the opening credit sequence of Panic Room took a year to complete , after having seen them yesterday all I can say is why ? With a supposed budget of about $48 , 000 , 000 one has to say that sounds like a lot of money considering it's set almost entirely within one location with only six people in the thing although Foster apparently go paid $12 , 000 , 000 . Nicole Kidman was originally cast as Meg & started shooting the film but had to pull out after a recurring knee injury sustained on Moulin Rouge ! ( 2002 ) so Foster was then cast , I don't think any of the Kidman footage has ever surfaced but I would have probably preferred her in the role since I don't really like Foster . The acting is general is alright but nothing special . Panic Room is an OK thriller that I liked on a basic level but didn't think it was any sort of classic , I thought it was too repetitive & I didn't like anyone in it that much .
Average sequel .	The Ring Two starts six months after the events of the original film as journalist Rachel Keller ( Naomi Watts ) & her young son Aidan ( David Dorfman ) have moved to a small town in Oregon called Astoria . While working for the local paper Rachel learns of the mysterious death of a local teenager Jake ( Ryan Merriman ) , she investigates it & discovers the haunted videotape has followed her . Rachel gets hold of the tape & burns it but that's not enough & the evil spirit of dead teenager Samara has possessed her young son Aidan , like before Rachel must delve into Samara's past & find a way to permanently send her to the grave for good & save her son . . . Directed by Hideo Nakata this was a sequel to the original Hollywood remake of The Ring ( 2002 ) , released into theatres in a PG-13 cut & was given the obligatory Unrated DVD which is about ten minutes longer I will be basing my comments on the shorter theatrical cut . DreamWorks studios went & hired Nakata to direct the sequel who had actually wrote & directed the original Japanese version Ringu 2 ( 1999 ) & he turns in a fairly average & generic feeling supernatural ghost story . The script by Ehren Kruger starts off in familiar fashion with a decent opening sequence as two teenagers watch the videotape with expected results but then the film completely ditches the haunted videotape idea as Rachel burns it & becomes a possession film as the evil Samara possesses Rachel's son Aidan . It not only sounds rather dull & generic but it is , the creepy idea of a haunted videotape that gets passed around is sorely missed & there's no real gimmick or strong central idea here at all . There are one or two themes here that the makers try to explore , the first being the constant theme of water & in that respect one could say that The Ring Two for the most part actually feels like it has more in common with Dark Water ( 2005 ) than The Ring films . There is also an attempt to create a subplot revolving around child abuse as Rachel is accused of it ( well if you were a Doctor would you believe the evil spirit of a dead girl caused all the bruises on a young boys body ? ) but this comes to nothing & is quickly discarded as a token gesture & nothing more . At well over 100 minutes the film moves along at decent pace & to be fair to it it doesn't feel that long , it's watchable enough I suppose with a reasonable story , reasonable character's & just about enough dramatic incident to stop any potential viewers nodding off . Director Nakata does alright , some scenes look better than other's . The deer scene has gone down in film legend as a really bad sequence but I though it was alright & I have seen much , much worse CGI before . Unfortunately The Ring Two doesn't have many moments , you know the sort of memorable moments that stand out & stay with you long after the end credits have rolled . The climax set inside the well would have been rather good if not for the fact that I really don't think that Rachel could have climbed up the sheer inner wall of the well which would have been slippy , covered in mould & water & not given any grip . There's no real gore or violence here , The Ring Two definitely isn't a film about a big body count . Technically the film is good with above average production values & that big budget Hollywood glossy feel to it . Filmed in Astoria in Oregon & Los Angeles . The acting is alright , Watts does OK although it's very hard if not impossible not to find whiny little child actor's annoying . The Ring Two is an OK way to pass the time , it's nothing amazing & it's nowhere near as good as the impressive American original but it kept me entertained for a couple of hours . Not bad but not great I suppose . As I write this Nakata is attached to direct the announced The Ring Three ( 2009 ) .
Average at best 80's teen slasher .	April Fool's Day starts as nine college friends all set out to spend the weekend on an isolated island belonging to Muffy ( Deborah Foreman ) whom they all know from school . The only way to the island is by ferry , while sailing there an accident happens & a lad named Buck ( Mike Nomad ) is badly injured which puts a downer on the weekend . Once there they decide to make the best out of the situation & the traditional April fool's day practical jokes occur from collapsible chairs , door knobs that come off in your hand & whoopee cushions , each & every one a classic . Then one-by-one the teens start to go missing & even worse their dead bodies begin to turn up , a killer is on the loose . . . Directed by Fred Walton one has to say that I really didn't like April Fool's Day that much & I'm usually very forgiving when it comes to mindless 80's teen slashers , one of teen slashers to use the gimmick of a holiday calender event along with the likes of Black Christmas ( 1974 ) , Halloween ( 1978 ) , Friday the 13th ( 1980 ) , Mother's Day ( 1980 ) , Prom Night ( 1980 ) , My Bloody Valentine ( 1981 ) & Happy Birthday to Me ( 1981 ) & is in my opinion one of the least impressive examples . The script by Danilo Bach takes itself very seriously , has bland cardboard cutout teen character's whose names I can barely remember & an inexcusable lack of blood or gore . To be honest April Fool's Day as a film lives or dies by it's absurd twist endings , personally I think it's one of those ' love it or hate it ' type things & speaking from a personal point of view I'm definitely leaning towards the later . The twist is so contrived , silly & full of holes that I found it impossible to keep a straight face . Then after the main twist comes another groan inducing twist which is standard horror fare & totally unnecessary rounds things off . The way I'll sum April Fool's Day up is in four parts , for the first half of the first half it's just annoying teens travelling to the island , then for the second half of the first half they play lots of practical April fool's day jokes on each other while the first half of the second half is nothing more than traditional teen 80's teen slasher fare ( only worse ) & the second half of the second half is made up of two cheesy twists which for me didn't work at all . Director Walton films with a certain competency & gloss in 2 : 35 : 1 widescreen but it's rather bland & forgettable , I'd struggle to say there's any style here at any rate . The lack of blood , gore or violence is most unappealing & basically sinks the film without trace as far as I'm concerned . There are a couple of decapitated heads & some blood splashes otherwise absolutely nothing . All the ' murders ' are very much off screen & since it turns out that not one person does actually die in April Fool's Day it probably has the unwelcome distinction of being the only teen slasher ever made without a single death in it . There's no nudity either . I was amazed to see that the IMDb says this had a budget of $5 , 000 , 000 because virtually nothing happens , there's no big name actor's , there's no special effects & while it looks nice & glossy is that enough to show for five big ones ? Shot on location in British Columbia in Canada . The acting is so-so , it's alright by 80's slasher standards but no-one is going to win any awards . April Fool's Day is average at best & even then only if you buy the ridiculous twist endings , it's well made & it's down to opinion but it didn't really do anything for me . I like 80's slashers so I didn't regret watching April Fool's Day & slasher fans will probably like it to some extent but overall I've seen much better examples . Another slasher film was made the same year under the title April Fool's Day but was released as Slaughter High ( 1986 ) while in keeping with recent Hollywood trends they have given someone three times the budget of the original to remake it as April Fool's Day ( 2008 ) , I wonder if they will change that twist ending . . .
" I never ask a question that I don't know the answer to . " I didn't think it was too bad .	Death Valley : The Revenge of Bloody Bill starts as five college kids , Gwen ( Chelsea Jean ) , Mandy ( Denise Boutte ) , Sondra ( Kandis Erickson ) , Jerry ( Matt Marraccini ) & Buck ( Steve Glinn ) plus they're teacher Avery ( Scott Carson ) set off across country to Phoenix . En-route they are taken hostage by a drug dealer named Earl ( Gregory Bastien ) who is looking for his fellow drug dealer Darrel ( Dean N . Arevalo ) whom he thinks has ripped him off . They find Darrel's car & follow the road to a old town called Sunset Valley where they find Darrel injured & covered in blood , he warns them to leave but before they can they are all attacked by a horde of flesh eating zombies lead by evil Confederate soldier William Anderson AKA Bloody Bill ( Jeremy Bouvet ) who has placed a curse on the town & it's residents for his & his sister's executions centuries ago . It's either the flesh eating zombies or the kids & it's a fight to the death . . . Photographed & directed by Byron Werner I thought Death Valley : The Revenge of Bloody Bill was an OK low budget zombie film . The script moves along at a fair pace & entertains on a basic level . It isn't anywhere near the likes of Night of the Living dead ( 1968 ) or Dawn of the Dead ( 1978 ) in terms of quality but it does it's best . The character's are the typical bunch of stranded would-be victims as they eventually start to argue & bicker at each other as the situation becomes ever worse & their number begins to dwindle . Of course you don't really go into a film such as this expecting high art or a meaningful story which is just as well because this definitely isn't high art & certainly doesn't have a meaningful story . Death Valley : The Revenge of Bloody Bill is one of those films that if you turn your brain off , can ignore a few rough edges & don't set your expectations too high can be enjoyed in a dumb mindless sort of way . It ain't exactly brilliant but it ain't too bad either . Director Werner tries all the flashy & somewhat annoying editing tricks there is , bleached colours , slow-mo , fast-mo , frame skipping & quick cuts . The special effects aren't that great but I've seen worse , there's no real scares , tension or atmosphere probably because it's set entirely during the day which doesn't help the ambiance , does it ? One aspect of Death Valley : The Revenge of Bloody Bill that I hated was the music , it was absolutely awful & there were times that I pressed mute on my TV remote control because it was giving me a headache . There is also a stupid bit with a grenade , I mean that grenade would have done more damage than cause a bit of smoke , I mean it was a wooden house it would have set in on fire at least , wouldn't it ? The gore is tame & lacking , there's a couple of flesh eating scenes , there's a decapitated zombie head & a few gun shot wounds , I was pretty disappointed with the gore levels here to be honest . Technically Death Valley : The Revenge of Bloody Bill is OK , it's nothing special but considering the low budget it could have been worse . It looks like it was shot on a digital camcorder like a lot of low budget horror films are these days , personally I really don't like how these digitally shot films look & I much prefer proper good old fashioned film . The acting sucked , but then what did you expect ? Death Valley : The Revenge of Bloody Bill is an average low budget horror film that isn't exactly spectacular but it's sort of watchable in it's own crap way , I doubt I'll ever want to see it again though . Worth a watch if your bored & have lots ( & I mean lots ) of love for the horror genre .
You know , I actually though this had some nice moments & ideas .	Arachnia starts as Professor Mugford ( David Bunce ) , his personal assistant Chandra ( Irene Joseph ) , a grad student Deke ( Dan Merriman ) & two twins Kelly ( Alexxus Young ) & Trina ( Bevin McGraw ) are flying via a small chartered plane to an archaeological dig in Arizona where Mugford is due to give a lecture . Unfortunately a meteor shower forces the plane to crash in the middle of nowhere , the pilot Sean ( Rob Monkiewicz ) manages to crash land the plane without any fatalities ( & not even a cut , bruise or scratch on anyone come to think of it ) & the six survivors look for help . They come across an old farmhouse & decide to pitch up there for the night , however what they don't know is that the meteor shower has unleashed some huge mutant spider like creatures from under the ground who are on the look out for potential food & a host that they can lay their eggs into . . . Written & directed by Brett Piper who also credited with the special effects this is another low budget horror flick which is getting universally trashed here on the IMDb by people whom I assume are looking for Transformers ( 2007 ) style special effects & a hundred million dollar budget , if that sounds like you then avoid Arachnia at all costs but if you appreciate a nice little homage to the giant bug flicks of the 50's & 60's then this might interest you . The light hearted script by Piper doesn't take itself too seriously & starts off pretty well then it seems to get bogged down with not much happening for a large chunk of running time before the giant spider things attack & the fun kicks in . The character's are cheesy clichés but I felt the film had fun with them & were quite likable , I liked Chandra the obligatory ' strong ' female , the air-headed lesbian twins were amusing as one wanted to get undressed & take a bath even in the situation they found themselves in ( even though they had no bubble-bath , soap , etc . . . ) , the annoying geek is the first to die like the makers knew he'd be the one the audience wanted to see die first , the scheming selfish character who thinks of no-one but themselves is here & the hero feels like Ash from the Evil Dead films complete with chainsaw & the actor's physical appearance to Bruce Campbell who played Ash in the Evil Dead films . I also thought some of the dialogue was amusing , while drinking some alcohol Sean says ' I haven't tasted anything like that since I was in a Bangkok whorehouse ' to which Chandra replies ' I take it you mean a beverage ' ! There were one or two surprises as well , there is a scene when Sean tries to call for help on a mobile & tells the police that giant creatures are attacking them at which point the entire audience is probably shouting out lie or something & then Chandra picks the phone up & does just that just to annoy anyone watching who has already made their minds up everyone in the film is stupid ! Unfortunately it's not all good news , the film is a bit slow at times , some of it is rather stupid , there's a serious lack of gore & to many people survive , in fact the giant spider things only kill three people which just isn't enough I'm afraid . Director Piper does alright , he was obviously working on a low budget & he , or maybe someone else who knows , made the decision to use stop-motion animation rather than CGI computer effects . I see by the comments on the IMDb that a lot of viewers don't like stop-motion which is fine but I think it ties in with the 50's & 60's giant creature features very well & I'm one of those people who would rather see a bad stop-motion effect rather than a bad CGI one , it's take your pick really because I doubt Arachnia would have had the money to create good looking CGI effects anyway so either way the effects were always going to end up cheap looking . There's no gore here , someone is ripped in half seen from a distance & some baby spider things burst from someones chest which reminds me that it seems to pay homage to various other horror flicks like the chest-burster from Alien ( 1979 ) while people stranded in a farmhouse having to board it up reminded me of The Night of the Living Dead ( 1968 ) . For some reason sometimes the point-of-view shots from the spider things is tinted red , other times it's tinted red but the picture is split up into several images while at other times the POV shots are simply normal film like the makers just randomly added the spider eye sight effects to some shots & not other's . I also have to mention the opening credit sequence , the credits are played over a never ending multi coloured tunnel effect that looks remarkably like the opening title sequence of Doctor Who from the Tom Baker era ! Technically the film is OK , sure most will think the special effects are terrible but while I agree they generally are I always felt the makers at least tried . Apparently shot in Vermont . I actually quite liked the acting here , the two leads were pretty good actually . Arachnia is a fun little homage to the giant bug flicks from the 50's & 60's , unfortunately film-making has progressed a lot since that period & I suppose Arachnia is a good example as to why . I liked a lot of it but at the same time I disliked a lot of it if you know what I mean . Not to be confused with the similarly titled Arachnid ( 2001 ) or Spielberg's Arachnophobia ( 1990 ) .
It ain't no masterpiece but I quite liked it .	Puppet Master : The Legacy features a woman named Macclain ( Kate Orsini ) who has been hired to discover the secret behind puppet master Andre Toulon's ( played by actors Guy Rolfe & William Hickey who is in the film & not just the trailer as the IMDb would have you believe ) serum that manages to give life to his inanimate wooden puppets such as Blade , Tunneller , Six Shooter , Torch , Leech Woman , Pinhead & the cool Jester who each become living killing machines ready to protect their creator . Macclain breaks into Toulon's final resting place Bogeda Bay Inn where she finds Toulon's old friend Eric Weiss ( Jacob Witkin ) & threatens to torture & kill him unless he hands the secret over , as the two argue the truth about Andre Toulon is revealed as his entire life & the events surrounding his killer puppets are told . . . Directed by Charles Band under the pseudonym of Robert Talbot Puppet Master : The Legacy is the eighth & to date final film in the Puppet Master franchise that started with the excellent Puppet Master ( 1989 ) all those years ago , the series carried on with Puppet Master II ( 1991 ) , Puppet Master III : Toulon's Revenge ( 1991 ) , Puppet Master 4 ( 1993 ) , Puppet Master 5 : The Final Chapter ( 1994 ) , Curse of the Puppet Master ( 1998 ) & finally Retro Puppet Master ( 1999 ) before this instalment which went straight to video in ' 03 . The script by C . Courtney Joyner under the pseudonym of Gene Yarbrough tries to tell the tale of Andre Toulon in chronological order & make some sense out of it unlike the series as it stands at the moment & is basically an excuse to use as much footage from the previous seven Puppet Master films as possible , Puppet Master : The Legacy features clips from all of the previous entries . It would be interesting to know just how much original footage this contains , at a rough guess I'd say no more than fifteen minutes worth & that's being generous . The clips are reasonably well edited into into a new film , there are a few sudden jumps in logic & location , there are numerous occasions where character's just come & go within the space of a few minutes & it's a bit choppy as you would expect a 70 minute film made up from seven other films would be . I was going to start this comment by saying that I was a fan of the Puppet Master films but then I realised I have only seen the first two which I thought were both great , unfortunately judging by some of the footage from the other sequels the series obviously went downhill in a big way . I must admit I rather liked Puppet Master : The Legacy , they at least keep things moving , the clips used are good , I've only seen the first two so most of the footage was new to me anyway & rather surprisingly the twist ending was rather good , in fact I'd go as far as to say it was pretty clever ( hell , I doubt there are many instances in any Puppet Master film you could describe as clever ) & was a nice way to round things off . Director Band doesn't do anything as there's hardly any new footage here , what is here is reasonably well shot & there are some OK shots of the puppets . Various special effect & gore highlights throughout the series are present including face slashing , brain tunnelling , hook impaling , head bashing , shooting , burning , crotch drilling , throat slashing & Leech regurgitating . The puppets themselves are cool & probably the best bunch of killer toys ever to grace the silver screen ! The budget stretched to one room , some scientific lab equipment & the services of two actors , that's all there is to Puppet Master : The Legacy . These parts look fine even though the digital video used looks odd whenever it uses clips from the first two films which actually had budgets & were obviously shot on 35mm film . The distinctive , sinister & rather good Puppet Master theme music is used throughout . The acting was alright . Puppet Master : The Legacy isn't for everyone that's for sure as most of it is just footage taken from the other Puppet Master films . However I quite liked it as I really like the first two in the series , the killer puppets themselves have real character & personality & are some of the best & most memorable seen in this type of film & if you like the Puppet Master series & know what your getting yourself into then I'd say it's worth watching but probably not worth buying as you'd only want to watch it once . As if that wasn't enough the murderous Puppet Master dolls returned in the made-for-TV film Puppet Master Vs Demonic Toys ( 2004 ) which sounds , erm , interesting .
Fun little late 50's monster film , I rather liked it .	The Alligator People starts at Webley Sanitarium where neuropathologist Dr . Wayne McGregor ( Douglas Kennedy ) has called in his old friend Dr . Eric Lorimer ( Bruce Bennett ) to sit in on a session with one of his nurse's , a Jane Marvin ( Beverley Garland ) who he is treating for repressed traumatic memories . Once the session begins & Jane is under hypnosis she says her name is in fact Joyce Webster & she was married to a Paul Webster ( Richard Crane ) who mysteriously disappeared on their wedding night . She claims she tracked him down to a plantation in a Louisiana swamp where she discovered the terrifying truth behind his sudden disappearance amidst scientific experiments gone horribly wrong . . . Directed by Roy Del Ruth this fun if somewhat underwhelming late 50's Creature Feature was made by 20th Century Fox hot on the heels of their recent monster film smash hit The Fly ( 1958 ) the year before & the two share more than a few similarities . The whole half human half animal hybrid monster of the title , the whole story which is told in flashback by a woman who turns out to be the wife of said half human half animal monster & the whole scientific experiments for the good of mankind by a well intentioned scientist going horribly wrong means both The Fly & The Alligator People have near identical plots . The whole framing scenes set in the Sanitarium with Joyce under hypnosis is quite neat & a tidy way to get lots of exposition out of the way quickly , for instance instead of showing her having to search for her husband we cut back to her on a table where she simply says it ! It probably also saved a lot of money since Del Ruth didn't have to show certain things , he could just cut back to Joyce & have her just describe it in words . The basic story is solid , it's your standard science gone wrong with horrible mutated monster consequences but it's fun , at a little over seventy minutes in length it's short & moves along at a nice pace & there is just about enough going on to sustain ones interest & attention . I liked it actually , it's no masterpiece but for what it is & the somewhat humble ambitions that it sets itself The Alligator People is an entertaining late 50's monster flick , neither nothing more or nothing less really . Director Del Ruth does a good job , as already has been mentioned The Alligator People was shot in Cinemascope & that really is the way to see it if you can since it's a fairly handsome film . From the muddy backwater Alligator & Snake filled swamps of Louisiana to the huge plantation mansion situated deep inside them . The Alligator People was an early make up effects credit for Oscar winner Dick Smith ( no , he didn't win his Oscar for this ! ) , the make up effects are pretty good actually . The full Alligator monster at the end looks a little silly & the rubber suit has lots of creases in it but it's reasonably effective in a cheap sort of way & it only appears for a relatively short amount of time during the final five or ten minutes . Shot in black and white one feels The Alligator People would look much better in colour to really bring the Lousiana swamp locations to life . Apparently The Alligator People was only made because Fox needed a monster film shot in Cinemascope to play as the second film on a double bill with Return of the Fly ( 1959 ) . Technically the film is sound , in fact The Alligator People has better production values than I had expected with good locations , sets & decent special effects . At least partly shot on location in Louisiana . The acting is better than usual for this pedigree of film , horror veteran Lon Chaney Jr . appears as a bitter hook handed Alligator hater . The Alligator People is a fun & entertaining late 50's Creature Feature that feels a lot like the The Fly but if your going to steal you might as well steal from the best , right ? Better than I had expected & I am sure most sci-fi horror monster film fans will like it .
Solid Hammer horror film .	A traveling salesman named Weller ( Roy Kinnear ) is thrown out of a moving carriage after a slight disagreement with a fellow passenger . He hears screams and he goes to investigate . He witnesses Count Draculas ( Christopher Lee ) death from the end of the last Hammer Dracula , Dracula has Risen from the Grave ( 1968 ) in which he was impaled with a cross . After Dracula has become nothing more than a amulet , powdered blood and a cape Weller decides to take the remains back to his shop in London and try to sell them . On the last Sunday of each month three stiff-upper-lip Victorian gentlemen William Hargood ( Geoffrey Keen ) , Samuel Paxton ( Peter Salis ) and Jonathon Secker ( John Carson ) visit an East End brothel , while telling their family's that their doing charity work . While at the brothel they meet up with Lord Courtley ( Ralph Bates ) who is by reputation a devil worshiper . Intrigued by him they offer to take him to supper , when there they ask him if he could help them further their immoral experiences . He takes them to Wellers shop and persuades them to buy Draculas blood , amulet and cloak . Later at an abandoned Church , Courtley starts to perform the ceremony that will resurrect Dracula . William , Samuel and Jonathon get cold feet and start to panic , when the ritual appears to be going wrong they start to beat Courtney . When it seems Courtney is dead they leg it . Courtney's body is transformed into Dracula , he says " they have destroyed my servant , they will be destroyed " . Each man has a child , William has a beautiful young daughter named Alice ( Linda Hayden ) , Samuel has a not quite so beautiful daughter , Lucy ( Isla Blair ) plus a son Paul ( Anthony Higgins as Anthony Corlan ) who is in love with Alice . And finally Jonathan has a son called Jeremy ( Martin Jarvis ) , Count Dracula goes after each child and puts them under his control so they can gain revenge for him over their parents . Paul escapes Draculas attention and since the police aren't interested in the slightest it's up to him to stop Dracula and save Alice . Directed by Peter Sasdy this was the fifth Count Dracula film by Hammer , coming between Dracula has Risen from the Grave ( 1968 ) and the Scars of Dracula ( 1971 ) . I thought it was a decent , solid and watchable horror film . The production design was great , it has a real Victorian feel about it with the elaborate period costumes and detailed colorful sets . Lee as Dracula is excellent as you would expect , he has a real on screen presence . A bit disappointingly he is reduced to nothing more than an extended cameo in this one and doesn't get much screen time . A special mention goes to Linda Hayden who is a fine looking young lady . The rest of the cast is strong and the acting is pretty good all round . The film lacks blood and gore , just a few bitten necks and someone having a stake hammered into their chest . The script by John Elder is interesting and moves along at a fair pace . I didn't like the way Dracula was defeated in this though , very lame and unimaginative . Overall a good film all round , well worth watching .
I rather liked it .	Reptilicus starts on a mountain somewhere in Lapland where some miners searching for copper dig up a large chunk of flesh & blood , Professor Otto Martens ( Asbjorn Andersen ) & Dr . Peter Dalby ( Povl Woldike ) from the University of Copenhagen are on the case . Back at their laboratory they keep the the piece of flesh in a freezer , however the absent minded Dr . Dalby leaves the freezers door open & falls asleep for several hours so the flesh thaws out . At first when he finds out Professor Martens is angry but his anger soon turns to amazement when he realises the flesh is healing itself & beginning to regenerate , one night during a thunder storm it completely regenerates into a huge 100 foot reptilian snake like creature & after eating Dalby escapes into the sea . United Nations delegate General Mark Grayson ( Carl Ottosen ) & his Danish counterpart Captain Brandt ( Ole Wisborg ) are on the case & charged with destroying Reptilicus before it eats it's way through the entire population of Denmark . . . This Danish American co-production was co-written , co-produced & directed by Sidney Pink & has the unique but worthless claim to fame of being the only monster film to be made in Denmark , well it's better than nothing I suppose . The script by Pink & Ib Melchior is your standard giant monster / alien / creature / insect / dinosaur on the loose plot that had been done 100's of times before & 100's of times since , so in that regard you couldn't call Reptilicus original or anything new but at the same time I thought it was quite fun & no worse than any other giant monster on the loose film . To it's credit it moves along like a rocket & I was never bored plus it takes itself extremely seriously which I liked & makes it even more fun to watch . The first half of Reptilicus concentrates on the mysterious chunk of flesh & it regenerating while the latter stages have the fully grown Reptilicus stomping his way through Denmark & the shift in styles works quite well . The character's & dialogue were obviously written by someone without a perfect grasp of English , the accents & funny dialogue all add to the fun I suppose . Maybe I'm easily satisfied , I mean I'd rather watch a bad rubber monster like Reptilicus destroy lots of model buildings , spit green acidic slime & eat the odd person than watch any soap opera or reality TV show any day of the week , does that make me mad or weird somehow ? If it does than so be it & because of the ending I'm always hopeful we'll get a sequel . . . Director Pink does OK , there's not much style , Reptilicus doesn't eat enough people , it's not that exciting & the green slime he spits out never seems to do anything other than slide down the screen but at least he keeps things moving along at a fair pace . The special effects are predictably atrocious , Reptilicus himself looks awful . He resembles a long snake with wings & short legs , his mouth never really moves that much & most of the effects seem to be achieved using a glove puppet . The models aren't too bad looking & no worse than those seen in a lot of monster films form this era . There's a bit of blood & a decapitated cow head . When the American distributor AIP got hold of this film they cut out various scenes of Reptilicus flying , well I've seen these scenes & they do indeed look pretty bad & the film certainly doesn't suffer from them not being there . Technically I didn't think Reptilicus was too bad apart from the poor special effects , a fair amount of effort seems to have been put into it with lots of scenes of people running & screaming through the streets of Copenhagen along with lots of military tanks , trucks , soldiers , warships & the like being used to decent effect to create a certain sense of panic & emergency . The acting is very stiff & awkward as Danish actors try to deliver American dialogue . Reptilicus is a pretty bad film that if I'm honest deserves the bad reviews it gets but there was something here , I mean I just saw something in it that I liked & thought was good unashamed fun . Hard to recommend but what the hell I will anyway .
" I'm your Mother , you only owe me your entire existence on this planet . " Pretty good fun .	The Addams Family has the Addams family debt laden almost bankrupt lawyer Tully Alford ( Dan Hedaya ) & his wife Margaret ( Dana Ivey ) being invited to an annual séance held by the Addams family to remember Gomez Addams ( Raul Julia ) Brother , Fester who mysteriously disappeared 25 years ago . Back at his office Alford is threatened by loan shark Abigail Craven ( Elizabeth Wilson ) & her brute of a son Gordon ( Christopher Lloyd ) who want their money . Alford says he has no money but knows where there is a vault full of treasure & that her son Gordon looks exactly like Fester who disappeared 25 years ago & that with his help they can rob the Addams family of all their money . Later that night at the séance Gomez his wife Morticia ( Anjelica Huston ) , Grandma ( Judith Malina ) & the two children Wednesday ( Christina Ricci ) & Pugsley ( Jimmy Workman ) are all astounded & delighted when Fester suddenly & rather unexpectedly turns up having supposedly been trapped in the Bermuda Triangle . . . Directed by Barry Sonnenfeld I thought The Addams Family was a fine film that provides solid entertainment but at the same time is maybe a little simplistic & not quite funny enough . The Addams Family first appeared as a series of cartoons by Charles Addams in 1935 , then the character's were given their own TV series The Addams Family ( 1964 - 1966 ) which ran for 64 episodes , then Hanna-Barbera turned the concept into a short-lived cartoon series that ran for 16 episodes in 1973 & there was one spin-off TV special called Halloween with the Addams Family ( 1977 ) with most of the original cast which then brings us to this big budget film version . The script by Caroline Thompson & Larry Wilson with Paul Rudnick doing the rewrites moves along at a nice pace & isn't demanding , it has the sort of macabre black humour you would expect & is good fun . I have to admit that I personally didn't really laugh at any point , I certainly smiled & found it amusing but there weren't any big laugh-out-loud moments for me & anyone who doesn't guess the ' surprise ' ending within the first ten minutes is either dead or just plain stupid . All the Addams Family character's are there including Lurch ( Carel Struycken ) the ridiculously tall butler & Thing the dismembered hand . The cast help the film enormously , Julia as Gomez is perfect as is Huston as Morticia while a young Christinia Ricci is very effective as Wednesday . With a supposed budget of $38 , 000 , 000 back in ' 91 The Addams Family is technically a very good looking & polished film with the Addamses ' Gothic mansion standing out & almost being a character in it's own right . The special effects vary as one would expect from a film from ' 91 , the special effects on Thing are surprisingly good while the wind & electricity effects at the end are awful by todays standards . The recognisable Addams Family theme tune is only used during the opening credits . Director Sonnenfeld keeps things moving with plenty of visual gags & slapstick comedy , although I felt the sequence where Wednesday cuts Pugsley's arm off in a school play & in return he slits her throat with fountains of spurting blood spraying from the wounds was somewhat disturbing & felt out of place as in the context of the film I think they did it for ' real ' . I liked it , I'm not sure I would want to watch it again anytime soon . Definitetly worth a watch especially as you can probably find it cheap these days or catch it on TV for free , like I did in fact !
" There's a storm coming & it's going to be a snorter . " Enjoyable murder mystery .	The Bat starts with famous murder mystery writer Cornelia Van Gorder ( Agnes Moorehead ) & her close friend & maid Lizzie Allen ( Lenita Lane ) moving into a isolated rural mansion called The Oaks having agreed to rent it from the owners nephew Mark Fleming ( John Bryant ) . The actual owner happens to be John Fleming ( Harvey Stephens ) who also owns the local bank which , as the vice president Victor Bailey ( Mike Steele ) discovers , has been embezzled out of $1 , 000 , 000 in bonds . As the discovery is made John is on a hunting trip with his friend & the town's Doctor , Malcolm Wells ( Vincent Price ) to whom he confesses he stole the money & needs his help to disappear , Dr . Wells decides he would like the money for himself & since he knows where it is he kills John . Lieutenant Andy Anderson ( Gavin Gordon ) is on the case & Victor is arrested for the crime . Meanwhile back at The Oaks Lizzie reads about a serial killer dubbed as ' The Bat ' by the local press who murdered several people using a glove with razors attached not too long ago , that night a shadowy figure enters The Oaks possibly looking for something . Van Gorder senses something is going on & starts to figure out that if in fact John was responsible for the stolen bonds he would probably have hid the cash in the house . Van Gorder also realises that if she has figured it out others may have including The Bat , but who is he exactly ? Surely it's not the butler Warner ( John Sutton ) as that would be too obvious , wouldn't it . . . ? Written & directed by Crane Wilbur I actually quite liked The Bat . The script by Wilbur is based on a novel & play by Avery Hopwood & Mary Roberts Rinehart & is a bit of a mixed bag really . It starts off very well drawing the viewer instantly into the mystery of the stolen loot & the identity of the killer , it then settles down a bit & sort of goes nowhere for a long stretch until the climax when The Bat is unmasked & the money located . The list of suspects is just too short , basically it's between three characters & it would have helped the films mystery element if there were a couple more thrown in . Having said that The Bat still provided good solid murder mystery entertainment & it should keep you guessing until it's end . I'm not entirely convinced by Van Gorder's & Lizzie's reaction to the situation , if a masked serial killer with razors on his glove is known to be killing people by tearing their throats out in my house I don't think I'd stick around if you know what I mean ! Director Wilbur fails to generate or sustain much tension or atmosphere & where on earth is the almost obligatory thunder storm ? There is also a distinct lack of scares but nothings perfect I suppose , right ? Technically The Bat is fine for a film that is over 45 years old , the black & white cinematography by Joseph Biroc is functional & neat ' n ' tidy if a little static . The acting isn't anything to get too excited about but it's better than most of the wooden acting present in early horrors & Vincent Price is always great to watch if your a horror fan much like myself . Overall I liked The Bat , it entertained for 80 odd minutes & that's really all one can hope for . Maybe a little dated for modern audiences but if your a horror fan or classic film fan then The Bat is definitely worth a watch & since I'm pretty sure it is now a public domain title you should be able to find a copy going for peanuts like I did or download it off the internet for free .
The return of Alamo Joe Rogan , the end of Skorzeny & pretty much the end of the series .	Werewolf : To Dream of Wolves : Part II starts as evil Werewolves Diane Bathory ( Kim Ulrich ) & head Werewolf Nicholas Remy ( Brian Thompson ) phone bounty hunter Alamo Joe Rogan ( Lance LeGault ) & lets him know the whereabouts of Werewolf Eric Cord ( John J . York ) after having killed Skorzeny . Rogan goes to the location only to find Eric gone & a couple of dead bodies , the local police are on the case . Meanwhile Eric heads straight back to Remy's house to confront him & the traitorous Diane but can he handle both on his own & finally rid himself of the Werewolf curse he has lived with for so long ? Episode twenty six from the one & only season of Werewolf this originally aired in the US during February 1988 , the second & final part of the two parter To Dream of Wolves this was directed by James Darren & sees the very final appearance of Skorzeny ( though a flashback & footage used from a previous episode ) the bad guy of the series . With Skorzeny killed & out of the way the main bad guy baton for the series is handed over to the 2 , 000 year old Nicholas Remy who becomes the originator of the Werewolf bloodline & the one Eric must now kill to rid himself of the curse . To Dream of Wolves is pretty straight forward actually , apart from introducing Remy in a long dialogue scene between him & Eric not that much actually happens in To Dream of Wolves : Part II . Skorzeny & Remy are both very different sorts of villains , Skorzeny used his power regardless & was rather lower class than the educated well tailored Remy who happens to be a professor moving into politics since he is a power junkie . Nice . They are also physically different with Skorzeny tall & willowy while Remy looks more like a pro wrestler or heavyweight boxer . I guess the makers wanted a strong & distinct contrast . We still never found out who the mime artist from Part 1 was or his relevance as he is killed by Eric at the start of Part II & gets taken away in a body-bag by the cops ! This episode also sees the return of bounty hunter Alamo Joe Rogan having not featured for several episodes . One of the few episode where Eric doesn't change into a Werewolf but Remy does , there's not much gore but there is a slashed throat to be seen . Apparently there was a real life Nicholas Remy who was a member of the notorious Spanish Inquisition & there is indeed a flashback in this episode where Remy is seen as one . So after Skorzeny was named after a Vampire in a film Nicholas Remy gets named after a real life torturer , cool eh ? The two To Dream of Wolves episodes have been very well shot with good production values & that great 80's horror film vibe . The complete lack of CGI computer effects in these episodes & indeed the whole series is also nice . As usual with regard to Werewolf I am also impressed with the photography which is very atmospheric & moody . To Dream of Wolves : Part II is better than Part 1 I suppose , just about . The odd subplot with the mime artist guy that seems put in there at random is just , well , odd . The hunt for Skorzeny ends , the hunt for Remy begins but is it worth following . . .
" There are many other interesting things in our village , like our peaceful little cemetery . " Watchable enough Euro horror .	La Noche de Walpurgis , or the ridiculous sounding The Werewolf Vs . Vampire Woman or the better sounding but still irrelevant Werewolf Shadow as it's known amongst English speaking audiences , starts at a local mortuary where Dr . Hartwig ( Julio Pena ) & his assistant Muller ( Bernabe Barta Barri ) are carrying out a postmortem on Waldemar Daninsky ( Jacinto Molina under his usual pseudonym Paul Naschy ) a suspected Werewolf who has been shot with silver bullets . After removing the bullets Daninsky comes back to life as a werewolf , attacks Hartwig & Muller then kills a local girl . Meanwhile a student named Elvira ( Gaby Fuchs ) is writing an essay on black-magic , witchcraft & in particular a Countess Wandessa d'Arville da Nadasdy ( Patty Shepard ) whom was said to be a Vampire & Satan worshipper 100's of years ago . Together with her friend Genevieve ( Barbara Capell ) & a document which reveals where Wandessa's tomb is located Elvira travels to a remote part of North France & bumps into Waldemar who offers the two women a place to stay . It's not long before things take a turn for the worse as Waldmar's mentally disturbed sister Elizabeth ( Yelena Samarina ) warns them to leave the area , they discover blood stained walls & manacles in the shed , Waldemar somehow isn't as he appears & when Wandessa's tomb is opened she is resurrected form the dead to terrorise the local area once again with various bodies turning up having been drained of blood . . . This Spanish German co-production was directed by Leon Klimovsky & isn't as bad as I was anticipating , it's far from a masterpiece but I thought it was a fairly decent way to pass an hour & a half . The version I saw was the Anchor Bay DVD with the extra few minutes of dialogue that was obviously never dubbed into English & therefore is presented in Spanish with subtitles , this extra footage adds nothing & in fact I'd prefer to have not had this put back in as it slows the pace of the film down & is frankly boring . Anyway , the script by star Molina as James Molin ( how many pseudonym's does this guy have ? ) & Hans Munkel has plenty of the elements that most rabid Euro horror fans will be looking for like Vampires , Werewolves , blood , superstitious locals , pretty girls , idiotic dialogue & nudity . Hey , what more do you want ? A decent coherent story perhaps ? The character's are dull & don't act in the way a normal human being would in the situations they find themselves in , I didn't buy the relationship between Daninsky & Elvira for a second & it just seemed so fake & contrived . The various themes & ideas in La Noche de Walpurgis come & go without much regard for continuity , the Werewolf & Vampires appear sporadically throughout often being completely forgotten about for long period's . Having said that that the film moves a long at a nice pace & never really becomes boring ( expect at the end but that's the extra footage for you ) with a decent amount of monster action although the climatic fight at the end is nothing more than two people rolling around on the floor . Director Klimovsky manges to create some great scenes & atmosphere with the Vampires moving in slow motion & for some reason he has them jump off something whenever they appear , I also liked Wandessa's outfit with her black veil . On the down side the constant day-for-night shots become irritating & undo some of his good work . I loved the locations used , the Church ruins & local architecture is fantastic & gives La Noche de Walpurgis a really nice look that the film itself doesn't deserve . Technically the film is solid with nice production values , cinematography , music & special effects . There are some gore scenes here , a woman is bitten on the neck with lots of her blood running over her naked breasts , a couple of stakes through the heart , some Vampirism & neck biting , a decapitation & a melting Vampire . The acting is obviously lessened by the bad English dub but it probably wasn't any good anyway , leading ladies Fuchs & Capell are both very attractive if you know what I mean . . . I quite liked La Noche de Walpurgis , it's far from the best Euro horror I've ever seen but it's far from the worst . It's simple , silly & slightly uneven story entertains to an extent but it isn't going to stay with you for that long afterwards . If your a Euro horror or Naschy fan than it's definitely worth a watch , for those who aren't would be advised that there are better alternatives out there .
" Well , we should have no problem identifying the enemy , their approximately 50 feet tall & wearing their birthday suit's . " So bad it's good .	King Kong Lives starts off with the final few minutes from the original King Kong ( 1976 ) as the giant Gorilla seemingly falls to his death from the World Trade Center in New York . Jump to ' Atlanta Institute , Georgia Ten Years Later ' where they have Kong ( Peter Elliott ) on a life support system waiting to undergo a heart transplant ( ! ) . Dr . Amy Franklin ( Linda Hamilton ) is ready to perform the operation but Kong needs a steady supply of blood to survive the procedure , as luck would have it diamond mercenary Hank Mitchell ( Brian Kerwin ) has found a lady Kong ( George Yiasoumi ) while trekking through the Borneo jungle . In no time whatsoever the institute has brought the female & the operation has taken place with the artificial heart going in nicely . The operation is a success & Kong lives , the institute decides to keep both Gorillas but when Kong hears the female call out he uses all his strength to break free from his chains & go in search of a mate , obviously the United States Army can't have giant apes running around can they so it's up to Colonel Nevitt ( John Ashton ) to capture them by whatever means necessary . . . Directed by John Guillermin & , according to the IMDb an uncredited Charles McCracken , this is the sequel to the ' 76 remake of King Kong which Guillermin also directed . In my humble opinion I think King Kong Lives is one of those so-bad-it's-good abominations that I simply can't believe someone green lighted & trust me King Kong Lives is a bad film through & through . The script by Roland Shusett & Steven Pressfield is absolutely hilarious at times , you won't know weather to laugh or cry at some of the stuff that makes it's way into this film . I think King Kong Lives is meant to be a serious film but scenes such as the heart transplant complete with massive over-sized medical instruments , the giant artificial heart that needs to be lowered into Kong's chest using a crane ( ! ) & all filmed in complete seriousness , there's a bit when Kong manages to ' sneak ' up behind an entire platoon of soldiers , for Christs sake Kong is a 50 foot Gorilla couldn't any of these dumb soldiers see him ? The scenes in which Kong & Lady Kong romanticise with hugs , ' I love you ' type looks & Kong wanting to give her something so he uproots a bunch of trees & tries to give her those ! The entire concept is bizarre , daft & just complete total & utter nonsense while at times it becomes embarrassing to watch . But having said that it moves along like a rocket & is never dull or boring , when all said & done I found King Kong Lives to be a throughly entertaining film for all the wrong reasons . Director Guillermin messes everything up , there is no excitement , scares , tension or any action although it is quite funny on numerous occasions . The whole mood of the film is wrong considering just how stupid it is . There are a few snippets of violence & gore , Kong's removed heart , someone is snapped in two , Kong eats someone as well as a load of crocodiles & he gets shot at the end . With a supposed budget of over $30 , 000 , 000 King Kong Lives is a travesty , where did all the money go ? The special effects are worse than the ' 76 version in my opinion because of the 10 year gap , didn't special effects move on at all during that period ? If you put King Kong ' 76 & King Kong Lives side-by-side you would think not . It really is just a man in a rubber monkey suit from beginning to end , the full size hand & arm shots are awful as they just look so stiff & unnatural . For 30 big ones King Kong Lives is a shoddily produced film & doesn't look the part at all . The acting is about as good as you would expect from such a silly film , I wonder if the cast knew how bad this was going to turn out to be ? King Kong Lives provides 100 odd minutes of pure entertainment for me , it's a crap film but it's just so bad it's good . It's a bit like a train wreck , you know you shouldn't look but you can't take your eyes off it . An absolute treat for bad film fans !
I thought it was quite good actually . . .	Arena is set on a huge space station where an intergalactic sports event known as Arena takes place , all shapes & sizes of alien creatures gather to go head-to-head in the arena where the aim is to simply beat your opponent in a test of strength , skill & stamina . There hasn't been a human champion for 50 years but professional fighter Steve Armstrong ( Paul Satterfield ) feels he has what it takes , when he beats up one of sexy fight promoter Quinn's ( Claudia Christian ) prize fighters he gets his opportunity in the arena . Coached by his buddy Shorty ( Hamilton Camp ) & guided by Quinn Armstrong is a revelation & quickly become the No . 1 contender for the title of champion which a nasty alien creature named Horn ( Michael Deak ) currently retains . However evil promoter Rogor ( Marc Alaimo ) fears that his man may lose & decides to use dishonest methods to fix the fight , but will Armstrong's spirit & determination see him through . . . This Italian American co-production was directed by Peter Manoogian & was better than I had expected . The script by Danny Bilson & Paul De Meo which takes itself pretty seriously is basically an underdog tale , someone overcoming the odds & succeeding & in that respect it's all too obvious what's going to happen & how things are going to turn out . I suppose you could describe Arena as an intergalactic version of Rocky ( 1976 ) & in that sense it is quite successful . The character's are decent & the comic relief isn't too annoying & the dialogue is OK . The film moves along at a nice pace & is never that dull although I thought it could have done with a few more fights because as it stands there is only three which isn't really enough . Arena provides fair entertainment , it plays quite well & overall I liked it . Director Manoogian does an OK job , there isn't much style to it but it looks alright . I was impressed by the aliens , there are loads of them & while some of the make-up / masks look a bit rubbery / spray-painted they show imagination & effort , I especially liked the huge Sloth creature who looks like a cross between a lizard , a slug & grasshopper if you can even begin to imagine that ! Horn looked quite good as well especially his facial movements . The violence is very tame & the fights aren't that great which is the biggest disappointment about Arena really . Produced by Empire pictures ( maybe better know for it's horror output ) & shot in Italy Arena is quite well made although I doubt it had a massive budget . The special effects vary , none are outstanding but you feel the filmmakers did the best with what they had . The acting was OK although Satterfield makes for a somewhat dull hero , Christian looked pretty sexy . Arena was a decent film in my opinion & better than I was expecting , it certainly isn't a masterpiece but provides simple & undemanding entertainment . Could have been better but could have been worse , just about worth a watch if you can find a copy going ( very ) cheap .
Decent second episode .	Werewolf : Nightwatch is set in Santa Clara where teenager Eric Cord ( John J . York ) has managed to track down lead Werewolf Jonas Skorzeny ( Chuck Connors ) , now infected with the Werewolf curse that makes him turn into a viscous beast Eric know's the only way to break the curse is to destroy Skorzeny the source of the bloodline . Eric finds Skorzeny hiding out on a fishing boat & tries to shoot him , unfortunately you need silver bullets to kill a Werewolf so Eric's plan fails . Meanwhile bounty hunter Alamo Joe Rogan ( Lance LeGault ) is on his trail . . . Episode two from the first & only season of Werewolf this originally aired in the US during July 1987 , directed by David Hemmings this is a straight continuation on from the feature length pilot episode . There's a brief recap at the start of Nightwatch to bring any potentially new viewers who might not have seen the pilot up-to date but I would suspect that Nightwatch would make more sense to those that have seen the pilot . Here newly turned Werewolf Eric Cord spends the whole twenty five minute episode trying to kill Skorzeny which is fine I suppose but not much else actually happens . To be fair there are one or two nice character development scenes here , one such scene near the beginning where we hear as Eric's thoughts as he tries to write a letter to someone trying to get across his feelings is a well written & played out monologue . There's a subplot about a couple of sailors wanting to turn Eric in for a reward & bounty hunter Rogan doing a bit of detective work to track Eric but otherwise it's a fairly uneventful if still watchable episode . Set largely at night on some docks there's a great atmosphere as the creaking wooden boats , scenes lit by swinging oil lanterns & the dense thick fog give it a traditional horror feel . Eric turns into a Werewolf at the end & although the transformation isn't seen the final creature thanks to An American Werewolf in London ( 1981 ) special effects man Rick Baker is impressive . There's no real blood or gore in this episode . Nightwatch is a pretty good second episode as the series begins to settle down into it's regular twenty minute slot after the feature length pilot . It's probably worth tracking down the pilot as Nightwatch will make more sense as a result but even taken on it's own with a short recap at the start it's not too bad .
Unusual Werewolf episode .	Werewolf : Nightmare in Blue starts as Eric ( John J . York ) is busted by a cop named Officer Ritter ( Gregg Henry ) who quickly turns out to be a psycho when he takes Eric to a deserted house on the edge of town & for no apparent reason shoots him & buries him in the basement . Of course Eric being a Werewolf regenerates & sees that the cop has done it before as there are several other ' graves ' there . Eric can't go to the police & when he tries to phone it in the cops don't believe him & say there isn't even an Officer Ritter on the force . Then Eric notices Offficer Ritter again this time arresting a young woman , however bounty hunter Alamo Joe Rogan ( Lance LeGault ) catches up with Eric at last & becomes the girls only hope if Eric can even convince him that the cop is a killer . . . Episode twenty one from the first & only season of Werewolf this originally in the US during January 1988 , directed by Devid Hemmings this is an odd little episode that doesn't quite fit into any traditional category but there's something about Nightmare in Blue that makes it both rather watchable & intriguing . It's about a failed cop who goes around dishing out his own brand of justice by clearing the streets of transients & the homeless by posing as a cop & then killing them . This is quite interesting as his motives are never really fully given , I really liked the way he would ask his victims ' well aren't you going to ask why ? ' & when they do he just blows them away without any sort of explanation . It's rather cold & chilling in some ways although a bit baffling in other's as we never really find out that much about him . Bounty hunter Rogan returns to the show after several episodes & is actually becomes the hero at the end which is unusual but then Werewolf is a show which does try to be different & go against expectation . At only twenty fives in length it's short & has an intriguing story that I rather liked . I wasn't keen on the cop who took Eric's phone call though , wouldn't he be obliged by law to at least check his story out ? At least have a black and white do a drive by ? Have the scene at least checked out ? There's not too much Werewolf action in Nightmare in Blue , Eric changes shortly after he gets shot & digs his way out of his own grave but otherwise there's none & Nightmare in Blue must be one of the few Werewolf episodes where Eric is not seen to change at the end although it is implied that he did . As usual this is well shot with some moody nighttime photography although I think I spotted a continuity mistake , as Officer Ritter drives Eric around when the camera is placed inside the cop car he has his windshield wipers on because it's clearly raining outside yet whenever it switches to a long shot of the cop car it's not raining at all . Nightmare in Blue is an unusual Werewolf episode with a dark & slightly disturbed plot that will leave you with some questions but should entertain in a morbid sort of way , fans of the show should like it & maybe anyone looking for something a bit different .
" You should have learned by now not to ask questions you don't want the answers to . " I quite liked it .	Knocking on Death's Door starts on a dark & stormy night as a policeman ( Philip Sweeney ) & Dr . Hadley ( Colm O'Maonlai ) break into the large isolated house belonging to Elizabeth Cartwright ( Stella Feehilly ) only to discover her dead body , her having apparently committed suicide with an OD . A violent force sweeps through the house & the cop has an axe embedded in his chest , Hadley manages to escape . . . Jump ' Twenty Years Later ' & newly married parapsychologists Brad ( Brian Bloom ) & Danielle Gallagher ( Kimberly Rowe ) are told by their boss professor Paul Ballard ( John Doe ) that he wants them to investigate the ghostly goings on in the notorious Sunset House . They head straight there & set all their scientific equipment up in preparation , Brad is the brains & Danielle is the psychic one who can contact the ' other side ' . It quickly turns out that the house is indeed haunted , from flying red hot pokers to killer Grandfather clocks & ghostly reflections in mirrors . Brad & Danielle feel there is more here than a simple haunting , the name Samuel is written in chalk on the basement floor & as they research Sunset House's history they find a dark & sinister past that still remains unresolved to this day . . . Directed by Mitch Marcus I actually thought Knocking on Death's Door was a decent film , surprisingly enough since it comes from king of the low-budget cheapies Roger Corman & his New Concorde production company . The script by Craig J . Nevius takes itself extremely seriously , it moves along at a fair pace & has most of the traditional haunted house clichés . Knocking on Death's Door concentrates on character's , story & atmosphere rather than cheap scares or gore . The ghost isn't overly hostile & certainly isn't scary as it tries to relay a message & settle old scores using Brad & Danielle . There is a fair amount of soap opera type drama but it sits quite well along side the supernatural happenings . One unusual aspect is that this ghost doesn't like anyone having sex & that's when it attacks people , in my opinion all this plot thread facilitates is to have brad & Danielle have sex & there's one bit when Danielle slips her hand down the front of her jeans & starts to masturbate at which our ghost is not best pleased . . . As one would expect it all rounds off with a twist climax & final revelation that to be honest is a little bit too obvious although is more than passable . Director Marcus manages to create a nice atmosphere overall although there's a lack of decent scares or jump out of your seat type moments . While Knocking on Death's Door doesn't have much in the way of visual style or flair it's well made & isn't as cheap looking as a lot of Corman productions . Apart from a gory axe killing at the start , a cut & some skeletal remains there is no blood or gore whatsoever although there is a fair amount of mild sex . Technically the film is fine & generally well made , it was shot in Ireland & for some reason takes no advantage of the location at all . The acting was decent enough & it's always nice to see David Carradine although bear in mind that even though he gets top billing in the opening credits he gets about 5 minutes of screen time , maybe he took the role because he wanted a free holiday in Ireland ? Knocking on Death's Door is an alright little haunted house horror , I sub-genre that I don't usually like that much . I mean it's not brilliant or anything but you could do a lot worse . Worth a watch .
Werewolf whodunit episode .	Werewolf : Eye of the Storm starts late one stormy night as Eric ( John J . York ) hitchhikes along a mountain road , he is picked up by a Park Ranger named MacKenzie who handcuffs Eric straight away & takes him to an isolated log lodge where one of the guests has been found brutally murdered . All the other guests & Eric are suspects & with a mudslide blocking the highway they are trapped until at least daybreak . Once there at the lodge Eric decides to turn detective to prove his innocence & unmask a killer as the storm rages outside . . . Episode twenty from the first & only season of Werewolf this originally aired in the US during December 1987 , directed by Sidney Hayers this is the third detective show style murder mystery whodunit in the past three episodes coming after the disappointing Blood Ties ( 1987 ) . I have to say that Eye of the Storm is an improvement on Blood Ties but it's still not that great , the whodunit elements are again quite poorly handled with it shooting it's load far too early . The killers identity is revealed after only ten minutes in a really cheesy scene when they spell out their plan in detail for our hero Eric to overhear . So much for playing detective , Eric just stumbles onto the truth almost by total accident ! Afterwards the plot goes in a different direction as the killer tries to frame Eric which is quite a nice idea before a typical Werewolf ending as Eric changes & sorts the villains out . Eye of the Storm starts off nicely with a brutal murder , several suspects & an isolated location that they are trapped in & I just wish the production team had followed through on it & kept the identity of the killer a secret until the end . As it is Eye of the Storm is still a watchable episode with a story that has some good & bad points that end up evening themselves out . I really like the look of Werewolf the series , it has had a really good horror film atmosphere & credit where it's due Eye of the Storm looks great . There's the log cabin , it's pitch black at night , there's a torrential thunder storm going on , there's a killer on the loose , the power gets cut off & there's even a trip into the dark cobweb strewn basement . This one looks really good & feels like proper horror if you know what I mean . There's not too much Werewolf action here although there's a slightly better than usual transformation scene with Eric's fingers stretching & his fingernails falling out & being replaced with claws . Eye of the Storm is a decent enough Werewolf episode although the whodunit aspect could have been a little better , at least it's an improvement on the previous four or five somewhat forgettable episodes . Eye of the Storm also works well as a stand alone episode that you don't need to have seen some of the other episodes to get .
" Remember that living forever thing ? It's just not you . " OK episode .	Blade : The Series : Hunters starts at a metal club called Brash where a young attractive girl named Jennifer ( Melanie Papalia ) is kidnapped along with Nikki ( Katharine Horsman ) one of the waitresses by Kurt ( Dominic Zamprogna ) the human familiar of a sadistic disfigured Vampire known as the White Prince ( Scott Heindl ) who has a liking for torturing young girls . Meanwhile Blade ( Sticky Fingaz ) is having some trouble with his Vampire informant Krista ( Jill Wagner ) but decides to look into the disappearance of Nikki after her sister Bethany ( Lauren Lee Smith ) contacts Blade's sidekick Shen ( Nelson lee ) for help , Blade goes about his work in his usual style which means if he doesn't get what he wants people get hurt . . . This was episode 10 from season 1 of the made-for-TV Blade : The Series , directed by Brad Turner I thought Hunters was OK but nothing special . The script by Geoff Johns isn't anything inspirational & feels too routine & uninspired for my liking with Blade chasing yet another Vampire which ends up in a climatic fight where Blade triumphs so in that respect you could say it's a touch predictable . Then there's the fact since these are 45 minute bite sized chunks it's difficult to build much momentum up although there are a couple of other plot threads which clearly run throughout the series so if you watch Hunters in isolation there may be the odd part here & there which doesn't seem to make much sense . Worth a watch but it won't change your life . There are a few decent scenes here , the parts where the White prince has Nikki tided up & then makes her watch videos of him torturing Jennifer are quite sleazy & his mask of human skin complete with human teeth still attached around the mouth reminds me of Leatherface from The Texas Chainsaw Massacre films & is quite gross . Unfortunately this is pretty tame , just when you think something nasty might happen it chickens out , the fights are OK but not particularly exciting or extravagant . The only real gore is when someone slices their own hand with a cutthroat razor & when someone has their jaw ripped off . It's generally well made for what it is but it's obvious things had to be scaled down from the films . Hunters is an OK way to pass 45 minutes , it's slick enough , it has some fights , a bit of gore & a good looking cast but I'd still rather watch one of the films again .
I didn't think it was too bad actually .	Progeny starts as ER doctor Craig Burton ( Arnold Vosloo ) is chatting to a shrink named Dr . Susan Lamarche ( Lindsay Course ) as he's been worried lately & unable to concentrate , Craig says his recent troubles began on the night of September the 20th while he was having sex with his wife Sherry ( Jillian McWhirter ) & he saw a strange bright white light & then the next two hours are missing before he remembers shooting his load into Sherry . The missing two hours & the bright light are a definite concern though . That night Sherry gives Craig the good news that she is pregnant & is pretty sure they conceived on the 20th , Craig becomes even more worried & when he gets his sperm count back from the lab & it reads virtually zero he wonders just who's baby it is since his pencil doesn't have any lead in it . Then he hears of similar accounts on TV of people being abducted by aliens , could his wife have been kidnapped & impregnated by aliens ? Craig hopes an ultra sound will show just what exactly Sherry has in her womb & he doesn't like the results . . . Directed by Brian Yuzna I quite liked Progeny for what it was , a simple & straight forward sci-fi based shocker . The script by Aubrey Solomon takes itself extremely seriously which actually works well considering the material & to me felt like some sort of mutant offspring between Rosemary's Baby ( 1968 ) & The X Files ( 1993 - 2002 ) if that's something you could imagine . A fair amount of the time is spent on the paranoia that Sherry & Craig feel about the baby & pregnancy which is alright but we , the audience that is , already know that Sherry is carrying an alien baby because the film has made that pretty clear from the word go so all the ordinary explanations offered up by other character's are a bit pointless & feel like a cheap way to pad the film out a bit as it's never in doubt . Luckily there are some nicely twisted scenes here , a dream sequence as Sherry drops her placenta & the alien baby emerges from it & a cool scene that looks like it belongs in a Japanese Hentai like La Blue Girl ( 1992 ) or Legend of the Overfiend ( 1989 ) where she is impregnated by a slimy alien . It moves along at a nice pace , it doesn't outstay it's welcome clocking in at about 90 minutes & is something a little bit different in the horror genre which isn't really known for it's originality . I have to mention the ending too which I liked as new dad Craig is beamed aboard the alien spacecraft & is seen holding a mutant freak half human half alien baby in a quite unsettling & amusingly downbeat final scene . Overall I liked Progeny although it's probably not a film for everyone given the subject matter & a few suitably yucky gross out scenes of gore . Director Yuzna knows how to turn in a decent horror flick & Progeny is no exception , it looks nice enough with his usual trademark gore . The aliens themselves look alright if a little silly & seem to be a mixture of animatronic on set puppets & CGI computer effects which work together well enough & I particularly like their Octopus like tentacle arms . I wouldn't say it's scary but the storyline is in suitably bad taste & outrageous enough to be memorable . Gore wise what's here is effective , there's a shot of an alien bursting through someones stomach while someones stomach is sliced open exposing all their guts & insides . The special effects are pretty good & there's a fair amount of blood splashed around along with a fair amount of female full frontal nudity if that's your thing . With a supposed budget of about $2 , 500 , 000 this had a decent budget & it show's with some nice aliens & special effects as already mentioned , it's well made with a pretty good cast who all do fine . Progeny is a film I didn't expect to like that much but Yuzna kept things moving & some of his trademark gore scenes make Progeny a reasonable way to pass 90 odd minutes , it ain't no masterpiece but to be honest it doesn't try to be . A good solid entertaining horror sci-fi with an agreeably nasty edge , I liked it .
Enetratining for what it is for sure .	2001 Maniacs starts as three college buddies Anderson ( Jay Gillespie ) , Nelson ( Dylan Edrington ) & Cory ( Matthew Carey ) head for Florida & the beaches during the Spring Break , on the way they are advised to take a detour & end up at the inappropriately named deep South town of Pleasant Valley , population 2001 . Shortly after several other teenagers show up also having followed the detour signs & they are all welcomed by Mayor Buckman ( Robert Englund ) & his townspeople , they are all invited to stay & share the hospitality of Pleasnat Valley during the Guts N Glory Jubilee celebrations held there every year for the past century . With the attraction of hot looking locals the travelers decide to stay but the residents of Pleasnat Valley begin to kill their guests off one-by-one in a variety of gruesome ways . . . Co-written & directed by Tim Sullivan who also has a small cameo as the local undertaker Coffin Harry seen making coffins this is a fairly entertaining somewhat kitsch remake of the Hershell Gordon Lewis exploitation gore film Two Thousand Maniacs ! ( 1964 ) . With Hollywood remaking so many classic horror films of late & lavishing huge budgets on them 2001 Maniacs sort of slipped under the radar a bit & as far as I am aware didn't get a theatrical release , certainly not here in the UK or a widespread one anywhere anyway . Two Thousand Maniacs ! is a somewhat strange choice of film to remake , apart from Hershell Gordon Lewis fans I doubt it's that well known & despite being one of his better films ( that's not saying much ) it isn't exactly regarded as any sort of masterpiece . I like the original Two Thousand Maniacs ! & I think 2001 Maniacs is a respectful remake , while the original was quite serious in tone this remake is very light hearted & a bit juvenile . There's lots of schoolboy humour & innuendo , jokes about locals having sex with sheep , inbreeding & the way the locals react to a black dude ( the black guy ask's ' where do black guy's hang out round here ? ' only to be told ' from that tree down yonder ' ) . There's copious amounts of sex , breasts & lesbianism as 2001 Maniacs knows it's intended audience & tries to please them . The story is alright but pretty much follows the original including a twist ending which if you have seen the original is left a bit pointless although 2001 Maniacs has a nice added gory ending . The character's are OK ( even though compared to the original 2001 Maniacs is populated mostly by good looking young teenagers ) , the dialogue is amusing & quite punchy at times & the heady mix of sex , nudity & gore worked for me . The original Two Thousand Maniacs ! was known for it's gory set-pieces & 2001 Maniacs updates several of them including the rock crushing scene & a cool sequence in which a girl is pulled apart by horses . Disappointingly my favourite kill from the original when someone is put in a barrel lined with nails & rolled down a hill is missing here but it does contain a few gore scenes of it's own . There's a scene in which someone drinks acid & his stomach melts away , there's plenty of severed limbs , decapitated heads & sliced up bodies , there's lots of blood , a bit when a gay man has a spear shoved up his bum which then protrudes from his mouth , a girl gives a guy a blow job with a set of metal pointed razor teeth & a neat double decapitation . The film has an over-the-top feel about it which means you can't really take it seriously , basically the makers know it's audience is going to want good looking young actors , plenty of sex & boobs & lots of blood & gore & do their best to deliver . With a supposed budget of about $3 , 000 , 000 according to the IMDb 2001 Maniacs was shot at the end of 2003 but strangely remained unreleased until late 2005 in the US & 2006 pretty much everywhere else . Filmed on location Georgia I would have though something like 2001 Maniacs would have been very commercial . The original Two Thousand Maniacs ! featured an irritating yet extremely catchy folk song theme tune which is reworked here without most of the lyrics . Most of the cast are teenagers but Freddy Krueger himself Robert Englund plays the main villain . 2001 Maniacs is a fun way to pass 90 odd minutes if all your looking for is lots of nudity , blood , gore & crude humour but I just felt there was something missing , perhaps the fact I didn't like any of the character's & they all looked the same didn't help & a good film always needs a good central character . Followed by the sequel 2001 Maniacs : Beverly Hellbillys ( 2008 ) .
" This chick is hardcore . " Extremely disappointing horror film that promised so much . . .	Slither starts late one night in the small American town of Wheelsy as police chief Bill Pardy ( Nathan Fillion ) & his deputy Wally ( Don Thompson ) try to pass the time as best they can , however unknown to them a short distance away a small meteorite from outer space lands & cracks open . . . School teacher Starla Grant ( Elizabeth Banks ) & her husband Grant Grant ( Michael Rooker ) are having marital problems especially in bed , as Starla pushes him away Grant storms out of the house & meets up with Brenda Gutierrez ( Brenda James ) who both end up in the woods together & stumble across the meteorite & a slimy cocoon thing nearby . Grant pokes it with a stick & a parasitic alien shoots out & attachés itself to Grant & burrows it's way inside him & takes over his brain & body . Over the next few days things turn weird in Wheelsy as Brenda disappears , lots of local pets disappear & Grant begins to change into something nasty . Eventually the town of Wheelsy is invaded by alien slugs that enter peoples bodies through they're mouths & turn them into alien controlled cannibalistic zombies , it's up to Bill , Starla & a young girl named Kylie ( Tania Saulnier ) to put an end to the alien slugs & prevent the entire world from becoming one huge breeding & feeding ground for them . . . This Canadian American co-production was written & directed by James Gunn , who also has a small uncredited role in the film , & I have to admit to being throughly disappointed with it . The first thing I will say is that it's a good , decent horror comedy that's watchable but I was expecting & hoping for so much more . The script is actually quite dull , I never would have thought a film about parasitic alien slugs would be dull but Slither manages it with aplomb . The character's are very poorly written & are virtually none existent , the filmmakers might as well have used cardboard cutouts , I never felt like I knew anyone & as a result I never cared about anyone . The filmmakers idea of comedy is to have a few comedy relief character's spout some stupid deadpan one-liner every so often , the horror side of things don't improve as while there's a fair amount of zombies , aliens , tentacles , slime & some gore nothing in Slither is original & I found it surprisingly low-key in a low budget kind of way , nothing in Slither excited me , scared me or made me laugh . The first twenty odd minutes are frankly boring although to be fair to it it does pick up considerably as it moves along . I saw Slither in a cinema here in the UK , during the first twenty minutes people would freely get up to go to the toilet or shop so I don't think I was the only one who shared that opinion & once Slither had finished everyone left the cinema very quietly , there was no buzz , no enthusiasm & no excitement as everyone just sort of shuffled out in silence . Director Gunn does a decent job & Slither is well made with some neat special effects . He pays homage to loads of other horror films & it's obvious he is a fan of the genre & those involved in it , films like The Blob ( 1988 ) , A Nightmare on Elm Street ( 1984 ) , Night of the Living Dead ( 1968 ) , The Thing ( 1982 ) , Shivers ( 1975 ) , Night of the Creeps ( 1986 ) , The Faculty ( 1998 ) are all referenced to . However there is a fine line between homage & rip off which I believe Slither crosses too many times as a lot of it's best ideas & scenes are clearly taken from other films . The slimy alien looks pretty good but by the end it looks like a mass of rubber more than anything else . I found the gore somewhat disappointing , there are a few gory animal carcasses , someone has a metal bar shoved through their throat , someone is split in half vertically & their guts fall out , there are a few gory head shots & a touch of cannibalism but I didn't think it had much impact as it was pretty jokey . I also felt a lot of scenes in Slither were there so the audience would point & say ' oh look that's cool ' rather than ' that's scary ' . With a supposed budget of about $15 , 500 , 000 Slither is well made , there's some nice CGI effects , some nice prosthetic effects & slimy aliens . It's competent & has a nice style throughout . The acting was OK but nobody felt like a real person , Banks is pretty hot . Slither disappointed me , I still think it's a perfectly watchable & entertaining film but I was expecting , no I was hoping for more which never materialised . Worth a watch but I think I'd have totally forgotten about it by the end of the week . I love the horror genre but generally speaking I don't like modern horror that much & Slither has done very little to change that opinion .
" Hey , I'm not The Creature From the Black Lagoon . " OK Jaws rip off / creature feature , generally overrated though .	Piranha starts late one night with two young backpackers Barbara ( Janie Squire ) & David ( Roger Richman ) breaking into a ' secret ' Army test site deep in wooded land . They come across a swimming pool & decide to have a midnight dip , unfortunately for them the pool is full of experimental genetically altered ultra aggressive piranha fish that eat both of them , hey they didn't put those ' no trespassing ' signs up for fun did they ? Maggie McKeown ( Heather Menzies ) works for a company that traces missing people & is hired by Earl Lyon ( Richard Deacon ) to find the two now obviously missing backpackers . Maggie heads for Indian Springs & comes across a cabin owned by Paul Grogan ( Bradford Dillman ) whom says he has not seen them & that there isn't anything around here except the old Army test site , Maggie makes Paul show her where it is . Once there they discover the pool & a necklace belonging to Barbara & fear they both might have drowned . They decide to drain the pool & see what they can see . However draining the pool turns out to be a big mistake as it lets the mutant killer piranha out into a nearby river . The scientist responsible for the piranha Dr . Robert Hoak ( Kevin McCarthy ) warns of the danger but at first neither Maggie or Paul believe him , that is until they discover Paul's friend Jack ( Keenan Wynn ) lying by the side of the river dead with both feet eaten to the bone . Maggie & Paul quickly surmise that the piranha are headed down river towards a summer camp for children & a soon to be opened holiday resort called ' Aquarena ' . Maggie & Paul face a race against time to warn of the impending danger especially when the Army turn up & both the corrupt Colonel Waxman ( Bruce Gordon ) & evil scientist Dr . Mengers ( Barbara Steele ) appear to want to cover the situation up & seem reluctant to acknowledge the risk the piranha pose to the general population . . . Co-edited & directed by Joe Dante who also has a small uncredited cameo in it as a scuba diver & executive produced by the infamous penny pinching Roger Corman I understand that Piranha is held in high regard amongst many , personally I can't see why . Piranha is not a bad film , far from it in fact but the script by John Sayles who also has a small uncredited cameo as an Army sentry obviously takes every decent idea from Jaws ( 1975 ) & uses piranha instead of a shark . Despite what you may have heard & what the IMDb says Piranha has no comedy elements in it that I could detect , there are no slapstick visual gags & no attempt at laugh out loud jokes . It does however feel quite jokey in a relaxed light hearted way as it never takes itself too seriously & has a few dry mildly amusing one-liners . I don't care what anyone says you cannot hold your breath for that long underwater , anyone who has seen the stupid ending will know what I'm talking about . I also thought Pirahna was a little on the slow side & had no variety at all , it really is very linear & I found it became a bit repetitive towards the end . The characters are likable , the interplay between Dillman's dry alcoholic bitter divorcée & Menzie's chirpy witty attractive blonde is entertaining & quite fun as the film develops . You never see any piranha's just quick cuts & they still look terrible , the blood & gore levels were extremely disappointing . Most of the attacks are depicted by simply showing victims splashing & screaming in red water & for a bit of variety sometimes we are lucky enough to get red bubbling water , oh joy . Director Dante fails to create much tension or excitement with the attacks which all end up looking identical . There is a brief shot of someone with their feet eaten to the bone , a bitten chewed up face , a bloody back & various blink & you'll miss them bite shots . Very disappointing & I personally think Jaws is the much gorier & violent film with more blood & body parts . There is also a bizarre unconvincing stop-motion fish creature which has nothing to do with anything & is seen a few times then completely forgotten about . The acting is good throughout , nothing spectacular but not bad . Piranha looks OK & is well made considering the supposed $660 , 000 budget which really doesn't sound like a lot even back in ' 78 . I liked Piranha , I don't think it deserves some of the rave reviews it gets & is in no way comparable to Jaws as the two films are simply not on the same planet in terms of quality . A perfectly acceptable & enjoyable way to pass 90 odd minutes but don't expect anything brilliant or life changing . Definitely worth a watch especially if it turns up on TV & you can catch it for free , like I did in fact !
" Put out their eyes & never let them work again in the movie industry . " Reasonable ' Making-of ' .	It's Only a Movie : The Making of ' Last House on the Left ' runs just under 30 minutes & is a reasonable if slight collection of short interview clips with some of the cast & crew , in fact it sometimes feels more like a reunion than a informative documentary . Behind the camera is represented by editor , writer & director Wes Craven , producer Sean S . Cunningham & gopher Steve Miner . In front of the camera participant's are Lucy Grantham , David Hess , Fred Lincoln , Martin Kove & Marc Sheffler . The documentary is presented in a linear way starting with The Last House on the Left's origins & how the film was originally funded by a group of Boston drive-in owners who financed their own second features of a double bill & that's how The Last on the Left was financed . Then it goes into the casting like Martin Kove was originally going to be the main villain Krug but Kove wanted to be the comic relief & suggested his friend David Hess . The interviewees then discuss the filming which took 4 weeks & that it was shot in Westport , Connecticut at Cunningham's house & surrounding land . Then the subject of the films marketing arises with the revelation that it was shot under the title ' Night of Vengeance ' which was then dropped & changed to ' Krug & Co . ' & ' Sex Crime of the Century ' both of which did nothing at the box-office until someone suggested the title The Last House on the Left to Cunningham who gave it a try & never looked back I suppose . There are a few decent anecdotes in here but for the most part I found it largely uninformative & lightweight but since it's a free extra on a DVD I can't really complain & it features a few behind the scenes photos & a little bit of footage for the fans . It's the sort of documentary that is a back patting ' didn't he do well ' type appreciation piece . You will watch it once & then completely forget about it within a week or so , It's Only a Move : The Making of ' Last House on the Left ' is an OK time waster & the only real interest was in seeing what everyone looks like now .
" I have a fear of falling . . . heights don't bother me . " OK making of .	Stallone on the Edge : The Making of Cliffhanger is a 20 minute documentary found on the American special edition DVD of the rather fabulous action flick Cliffhanger ( 1993 ) & is one that was made to promote the film around the time of it's original release , in fact Stallone is interviewed in it wearing his costume from Demolition Man ( 1993 ) . This is made up almost entirely of sound-bites & clips from on the set itself , lots of people repeatedly say how high they are & how dangerous it is . Stallone comes across alright in this , director Harlin comes across as stiff & most of it is shameless back patting self promotion . There are some neat behind the scenes segments although there isn't much information on the actual making of it , nothing on the effects or the story & little on the actors . You know the sort of thing it's just some on the set footage mixed with some of the best actions scenes from the finished film itself . Stallone on the Edge : The Making of Cliffhanger is an OK way to pass 20 minutes but don't expect to learn much about the making of it , this is self promotion all the way with a few nice behind the scenes moments . Worth watching if your a fan of the film , like me .
" Look at you , you've got a $500 suit on & your still a lowlife . " Good but not great .	48 Hrs . starts as vicious killer Billy Bear ( Sonny Landham ) helps his vicious killer mate Albert Ganz ( James Remar ) escape prison while on work detail fixing up a railroad , they head for San Francisco where they kidnap Rosalie ( Kerry Sherman ) the girlfriend of Luther ( David Patrick Kelly ) & say to him that if he ever wants to see her again to get the stolen $500 , 000 that has been stashed away by Reggie Hammond ( Eddie Murphy ) . While following up a lead on a stolen credit card two cops are shot dead by Ganz & a third Jack Cates ( Nick Nolte ) has his gun stolen which Ganz continues to use for his own violent purposes , this is now personal for Jack & forges some papers to get Hammond out of jail to help him track his old gang member Ganz down . . . Co-written & directed by Walter Hill this was the first buddy buddy cop flick & re-watching it today it's alright but hasn't quite stood the test of time . The script by Hill , Steven E . de Souza , Roger Spottiswoode & Larry Gross lays down the basic rules all of it's many imitators would bide by , two mismatched guy's are thrown together by some crime they are both involved with & after lots of abuse they develop a mutual respect for each by the end , oh & one or both have to save the other's life at some point . It's a formula that's been done to death over the years & just because 48 Hrs . was the first doesn't automatically make it any good , to be fair to it it is good but not great . For a start there's not much action in it , a few dull shoot-outs , a short car chase & a couple of fistfights is about the sum total of it . Also one has to say the language is somewhat ripe with all sorts of profanity spoken , I just find constant streams of foul language to be a lazy way to write & it also gets old very quickly . It's a touch slow going in places & the story itself about stolen money isn't anything to excited about either , like I said good but not great . Director Hill does OK but there is one plot hole I can't figure out , so Ganz & Billy Bear kidnap Luther's girlfriend & tell him to get the money right ? Well why didn't they kidnap Luther himself , keep him at gunpoint & just go with him to collect the money on Monday morning & then split ? I mean shoot-outs in trains stations & stealing buses is not the way to keep a low profile especially since every cop in the city is looking for you . That just sounds a much better plan to me . Anyway there are some amusing foul mouthed one-liners here & the scene where Murphy intimidates a bar full of racist rednecks is hilarious but overall it's a bit light on action as far as I'm concerned . Technically the film is good with decent production values , set in San Francisco it was actually shot in Los Angeles . This was Eddie Murphy's first film , although it nearly wasn't as Gregory Hines was the first choice to play Reggie while Richard Pryor & Denzel Washington were also considered . Mickey Rourke was offered the role of Jack Cates but turned it down although Nolte does a good job regardless . 48 Hrs . is a decent buddy buddy cop thriller that's a little short on action for my liking , it's still watchable with some funny profanity but it's not something I'd want to watch again anytime soon . I would say 48 Hrs . is so well remembered simply because it was the first rather than being the best . Followed by a sequel Another 48 Hrs . ( 1990 ) & literally 100's of imitators .
Strange German made gore film .	Garden of Love starts late one night in a seemingly normal farm house , however when local police arrive there after a phone-call they discover several horribly mutilated murder victims & one survivor a young girl named Rebecca Verlaine ( Anika Julien ) who is found in a come . Twelve years later & Rebecca ( Natacza Boon ) comes out of her coma & is adopted by some relatives , at first Rebecca has no memory of the horrendous events that left her entire family dead but slowly she starts to remember & soon starts suffering from terrifying visions of mutilated ghostly people talking to her . Rebecca & her now husband David ( Daryl Jackson ) decide to revisit her childhood home to confront her demons , what Rebecca finds at her old home leads to betrayal & brutal murder . . . Also known under the title The Haunting of Rebecca Verlaine in the US this German production was co-written & directed Olaf Ittenbach who was also responsible for the numerous gory special make-up effects which to fair are probably the highlight of the film . Not that it matters that much but first off I feel like I should mention the ( proper ) title Garden of Love ( I can see why it was changed for US distribution ) because I have absolutely no idea why Garden of Love is called Garden of Love , there are no garden's & there's not that much love either so why is this called Garden of Love exactly ? Anyway , the film itself is notable for it's very gory set-pieces which are pretty impressive ( no horrible CGI computer effects in sight ) & that rather obvious fact that it was produced by German filmmakers in English for an English speaking audience & as such the barely legible broken English strange sounding dialogue gives Garden of Love a somewhat camp & surreal feel that I personally quite liked . I mean if the majority of the dialogue scenes in Garden of Love were written & shot properly it would probably make for an awfully dull film as the only thing of interest would be to see the next gore scene but with this slightly bizarre feel to it I found myself liking the whole thing . The first half of Garden of Love is a straight ghost story while the second half has a few twist's & changes direction & becomes a revenge story . I certainly didn't think it was dull & the strange uneven tone of the plot & the almost but not quite right sounding dialogue coupled with the cool gore scenes made for a fairly entertaining film , if not exactly for the right reasons . As I have already mentioned the real highlight of Garden of the Dead is the gore , there's loads of it . From slashed throats to decapitations to exploding heads to ripped out guts to face ripped off to heads ripped in half to someone being pushed through a wire fence with gory results to stabbings to someone getting their eyes drilled out to gory shotgun wounds & loads more besides . This one really hits the spot if you know what I mean . There's also a very amusing scene in which the ghost's take over a TV commercial for kitchen knives & the announcer says that this knife will cut through bone & proceeds to grab his female assistants arm & chop her hand off as a gory demonstration ! I also have to mention that there are no quick editing or shaky hand-held camcorder moments which is just great & even more reason why I like this . You know , you can actually see whats meant to be going on ! Although the film has that low budget made for video look about it the special effects are impressive & it has reasonable production values . The acting is very strange as obviously mostly German actors try to speak & act in English & it comes across as very stiff & awkward . Star Natacza Boon was actually born in England & even more bizarrely than anything in this film she had a documentary made about her by the BBC when she was 15 focusing on the fact that she apparently had the longest daily trip to school of anyone in the country as she travelled over 400 miles everyday to drama school ( to end up in a film like this to , was it really worth it Natacza ? ) from when she was 12 until when she was 19 . Garden of Love is an odd film made by Germans in a language they obviously didn't quite understand ( think Troll 2 ( 1990 ) which was made by Italians in English ) & as a result it has some unintentional comedy moments to go along with the rather impressive gore scenes . I liked it , so sue me .
Once it eventually gets going this is pretty good stuff .	Flight of the Living Dead : Outbreak on a Plane is set aboard Concord flight 239 from Los Angeles to Paris during a horrendous thunderstorm . Onboard the passengers feel the turbulence as the plane flies through the thunderstorm , down below in the cargo area several Medcon scientists are transporting an experiment . The body of a woman named Kelly ( Laura Cayouette ) who has been brought back to life using the modified poison of a Mosquito , unfortunately during the turbulence she manages to escape from her metal box & starts to eat the passengers who become infected & themselves turn into flesh eating zombies . As the few remaining passengers fight for survival aboard the plane they also have to worry about events outside as the Pentagon aware of the situation orders the plane destroyed . . . Co-written & directed by Scott Thomas & also known under it's working title Plane Dead ( the version I saw was called Plane Dead in fact ) once it actually wakes up & gets going Flight of the Living Dead : Outbreak on a Plane is rather fun if your a zombie / horror fan which I consider myself both . First of all lets look at that title Flight of the Living Dead , I love it & think it's both clever & funny all on it's own . Considering the spoof sounding title you would be forgiven for thinking that Flight of the Living Dead : Outbreak on a Plane is a horror comedy with the emphasis on the comedy but in actual fact apart from some one-liners & a couple of mildly amusing scenes it takes itself pretty seriously . I would say the script by Thomas , Sidney Iwanter & Mark Onspaugh owes more to The Return of the Living Dead ( 1985 ) than Night of the Living Dead ( 1968 ) , there's some Snakes on a Plane ( 2006 ) & it also has a fair amount of Turbulence ( 1997 ) & Executive Decision ( 1996 ) as well as all those other action / disaster films set on a plane thrown into the mix as well . The two angles come together surprisingly well actually , with the thunderstorm outside making things very uncomfortable outside with the flesh eating zombies inside also a problem . The main problem I had with Flight of the Living Dead : Outbreak on a Palne was how slow it is to get going , the zombie action doesn't really start until way past the three quarters of an hour mark which is just too long really to sit down & watch these passengers sitting down on a plane . Some of the character's are quite quirky & likable but most of the development that happens during the first forty five minutes is quickly forgotten about when the zombies attack , the guy cheating on his girlfriend with his best friends girlfriend for instance is built up but nothing ever becomes of it . So basically the first half is pretty dull & slow going with the second half almost too fast with too much happening , I will put it like this I liked the last forty five minutes much more than the first . Still a very enjoyable light hearted ( although not as funny as it's jokey title might suggest ) horror / zombie film . Director Thomas does alright here , the second half of the film has a great pace with lots of bloody zombie action . There are however a few things that bugged me , first the amount of times people shoot guns , automatic machine guns & even set off a bomb without breaching the hull of the plane . I'm sorry but you can't set off huge explosions on a plane & not expect any damage . Then there's the fact they killed off the best looking girl & the one character I was rooting for , I don't know her name but the one who throws up in the toilet & is wearing a pleasingly short skirt & boots . While there is plenty of blood there's not much actual gore , a nun has both her legs bitten , there are a few bites , a zombie ends up in the planes engine , a zombie ha sit's head blown off & there are quite a few bloody gunshot wounds but little else . As I said there's plenty of blood but nothing really explicit . Flight of the Living Dead : Outbreak on a Plane is a fun film & not really meant to be scary which is just as well because it isn't , the setting is unusual for a zombie film too which I liked & thought was something a bit different . Technically the film is fine , it's surprisingly well made with good production values . The special effects are also surprisingly good with some impressive CGI computer effects of the plane & fighter jets in the air . The acting is alright from a good looking cast ( some of the girls are very easy on the eye ) & there's a few familiar faces in the cast from Kevin J . O'Connor to Brian Thompson . Flight of the Living Dead : Outbreak on a Plane is a fun light hearted gory horror zombie film that once it gets going is terrific stuff , unfortunately it takes a while to get going & the entire first forty five minutes doesn't do it any favours . If you stick with though & make it that far you should be rewarded with an entertaining zombie flick , overall I liked it .
Not the best in the series .	Terror by Night begins in London at Euston station as the worlds foremost detective Sherlock Holmes ( Basil Rathbone ) & his trusty assistant Dr . Watson ( Nigel Bruce ) board a train to Edinburgh . They have been hired by Roland Carstairs ( Geoffrey Steele ) to protect ' The Star of Rhodesia ' , an extremely valuable jewel owned by his mother Lady Margaret ( Mary Forbes ) after an attempt to steal it in London has already failed . Scotland Yard send Inspector Lestrade ( Dennis Hoey ) to keep an eye on things as well . It's not long before Roland has been found murdered & the Star stolen , Holmes , Watson & Lestrade are on the case . . . Produced & directed by Roy William Neill Terror by Night was the last but one in a series of Holmes films that totals fourteen made between 1939 & 1946 to star Rathbone & Bruce as Holmes & Watson . While it's by no means the best in my opinion it's not too bad a watch . The script by Frank Gruber moves along at a nice enough pace & at less than one hour in length it's no real surprise . The central murder mystery is OK but everyone seems more interested in the stolen jewel rather than the death of Roland . Things progress as you would expect & the final revelation doesn't come as much of a surprise even including the somewhat implausible twist . The suspects are sparse , there aren't many clues or red-herrings & as a whole it's a weak entry in the series . Director Neill does OK , obviously shot on a stage there are far too many establishing shots of the train which look awful as a toy model is used . The interior is repetitive & the amount of shots where people close their compartment doors & draw the curtains is annoying to say the least . Technically the film is OK , nice enough black and white cinematography , decent production design & it's generally well made . The acting is OK at best with Rathbone putting in one of his poorest performances of the series in my opinion , Bruce & Hoey play their parts for laughs as usual . Terror by Night is an OK way to pass an hour or so but there are better entries in this particular series . Disappoionting overall but still just about worth a watch .
Enjoyable enough CGI filled kids action adventure .	Small Soldiers starts as Gil Mars ( Denis Leary ) the billionaire president of Globotech buys Hartland Toys & demands a new , bigger , better & smarter toy . Larry Benson ( Jay Mohr ) & Irwin Wayfair ( David Cross ) are on the job & come up with the Elite Commandos & their sworn enemies the Gorgonites , to add a little realism each mechanical toy has an ultra smart micro processor chip inserted , a chip which has the ability to think & learn for itself . Unfortunately the chips was initially designed for military use only & has the ability to learn & develop only it's initial software which in the case of the Elie Commandos is to destroy the Gorgonites by any means , when a boy named Alan Abernathy ( Gregory Smith ) takes an advanced shipment of the toy's to sell in his dads toy shop all hell breaks loose when the Commandos activate & go on a search & destroy mission . . . Directed by Joe Dante who was probably looking for another hit along the lines of Gremlins ( 1984 ) Small Soldiers is a perfectly entertaining way to spend 100 odd minutes of your time in front of the telly but in the long term maybe isn't that memorable . The script by Gavin Scott , Adam Rifkin , Ted Elliott & Terry Rossio was probably written with kids in mind but I think Small Soldiers is maybe a film which will appeal to adults as well , it's a comedy action adventure film which works well enough & does pretty much what it sets out to do . Although having said that the technology on display here is nonsense , even if there was a microchip as sophisticated as the one featured in the film where would the miniature mechanics for the toy's bodies come from ? I won't even mention the battery that never runs out . . . The character's take a back seat to the living toy's on show , the likes of Chip Hazard voiced by Tommy Lee Jones & Archer the peaceful Gorgonite have far more personality & presence than any of the human cast but then that's to be expected . The dialogue is alright , there are a few decent jokes & cheesy one-liners in here . The film certainly has a nice pace about it & it keeps moving along , there's some OK set-piece action scenes even if I thought they were a bit forgettable & didn't actually feel like they amounted to much . Not the worst film ever made but at the same time not the best , it's OK & entertaining enough for sure but it lacked a certain spark , a certain magic that all great kids films have . Director Dante does a decent job & turns in a good looking film , there's plenty of CGI computer effects most of which look pretty impressive . The design of the Elite Commando soldiers is cool , they look all macho with exaggerated body proportions & I'd certainly buy one , OK maybe I wouldn't . As I said before the action scenes don't amount to much , the Gorgonites do nothing but either stand there or hide for most of the film while the Elite Commandos walk around a lot & say lots of military type jargon & one-liners but they too just don't seem to do that much . It's interesting to note that the American toy soldiers are the ones who become the bad guy's , the aggressors & the warmongers , considering this is an American family film it's an unusual & somewhat unpatriotic stance to take . Then again maybe I'm just reading far too much into what is a very simple & straight forward film , then again maybe I'm not . . . With a supposed budget of about $40 , 000 , 000 this had a healthy budget & it looks very nice throughout , the CGI effects are good & it's well made . The toy Elite Commando soldiers were voiced by Tommy Lee Jones along with George Kennedy , Clint Walker , Ernest Borgnine & Jim Brown who had played soldiers the classic film The Dirty Dozen ( 1967 ) thirty odd years earlier . If your wandering about the other two Clint Eastwood would probably have been too expensive & Richard Jaekel was due to voice a soldier but he died during production . On the human side the acting is alright , Kirsten Dunst looks very young in this compared to her Sider-Man films while Phil Hartman was shot dead in real life shortly before the film came out . Small Soldiers is a fine film , there's nothing wrong with it particularly but at the same time I didn't think it was outstanding , it's just my opinion but that's the way I see it . Try & catch it on telly for free .
" That's about the stupidest damn thing I've heard all day , no offence . " Not too bad for what it is .	Forbidden World is set sometime in the distant future as the galaxy is on the brink of starvation , on an isolated desert planet called Xarbia a team of genetic scientists have tried to create a new form of food that grows at an incredible rate . Unfortunately their tampering with the genetic code & splicing of DNA has resulted in a living experiment simply known as ' Subject 20 ' which has already wrecked a lab , killed various animals & has turned into a cocoon of some sort while it changes , the incident worries the top brass & company troubleshooter Commander Mike Colby ( Jesse Vint ) is sent in to ' clean up ' . Once on Xarbia Colby meets head scientist Dr . Gordon Hauser ( Linden Chiles ) & his assistant Barbara Glaser ( June Chadwick ) who fill him in , Colby wants to destroy the static cocoon before it hatches while Hauser wants to save his research . Soon the decision becomes irrelevant as it hatches anyway & kills unsuspecting crew-member Jimmy ( Michael Bowen ) , now with a slimy genetic mutant with lots of sharp teeth & powerful tentacles slithering around no one is safe as it sees us humans as a nice source of food . . . Co-edited & directed by Allan Holzman Forbidden World is a decent enough Alien ( 1979 ) rip-off , the way the alien looks , the way it goes through different stages of appearance plus the overall look & feel of the film will remind you of Alien . The script by Tim Curnen doesn't set it's sights very high , basically it's nothing more than an excuse to have a slimy alien running around a space station feeding on the crew , that's it . The film takes itself 100 % seriously which works fairly well although some of the static scientific dialogue is somewhat dull to listen too & becomes a little confusing . The alien creature is OK but doesn't really do much , the character's take great pains to point out how intelligent it is but it never really shows any , I mean it's not like it discovered a cure for the common cold was it ? Now that would make it intelligent . . . The filmmakers obviously had exploitation on their minds as Forbidden World features a fair amount of nudity , slime & blood which is fine as far as I'm concerned . It's far from a masterpiece , it's a bit slow & dull at times but it doesn't try to be anything other than a ' slimy alien on the loose killing people ' sci-fi horror film very much in the mould of Alien . Director Holzman doesn't do anything special & the film has a number of flaws , first the alien creature is very static , fake looking & hardly moves . Now on to the single most annoying aspect of Forbidden World , the lighting or rather the complete lack of it . The film is so dark at times it's very difficult to see whats happening , other people have mentioned this as well & I really do think it's down to the original filmmakers rather than just a bad VHS / DVD print ( although the stills on the back of my VHS box are crystal clear & slightly brighter than the corresponding scenes within the film itself ) . The film isn't as gory as some would have you believe , there's some cool melting people & plenty of gooey slime although not much violence , someone is impaled on a tentacle complete with a fountain of blood-spray & in the films most notorious moment a scientist has DIY surgery to remove a cancerous growth . There's a fair amount of nudity as well which I ain't complaining about . Technically Forbidden World is alright , the production design has dated the film badly & the sets remind of Alien . The special effects on the creature are average at best although the gore effects are actually very good . The editing is a bit erratic at times as well as it tries to inject some life & menace into the creature . The acting was OK but nothing special . Forbidden World is an Alien rip-off & nothing more , it's as simple & straight forward as that . For what it is it's OK but because of the fact you can hardly see anything & it's touch too basic , it has no ambition of it's own other than to cash in on the success of Alien by trying to copy it . Worth watching as long as you don't expect too much , it could have been better but it could have been worse . Produced by king of the cheapies Roger Corman who also produced another early 80's sci-fi horror Galaxy of Terror ( 1981 ) which is a better film than Forbidden World in my opinion . . .
" It was not unlike the colour of a rancid avocado . " Surprisingly good .	Monster in the Closet is set in the small American town of ' Chestnut Hills California ' where Mary Lou ( Jona Lee ) , a young girl & the blind Joe Shempter ( John Carradine ) are all attacked & killed by something nasty in their closets . . . Jump to ' San Francisco ' & the offices of newspaper the ' Daily Globe ' where usually ignored reporter Richard Clark ( Donald Grant ) is given the task of writing a story about the three unexplained murders by his editor Ben Bernstein ( Jesse White ) . Richard drives to Chestnut Hills & heads straight for the local police department to interview Sheriff Sam Ketchem ( Claude Akins ) . There he meets high school biologist Diane Bennett ( Denise DuBarry ) who thinks some sort of creature my be responsible because of two mysterious puncture wounds on the victims bodies . Richard & Sheriff Ketchem head over to the scene of Mary Lou's murder & Richard finds some sort of claw , he heads over to the school to ask Diane about it . Scientist Dr . Pennyworth ( Henry Gibson ) says he has never seen anything like it & wants to run some tests on it . Later that night at Diane's house Richard , Pennyworth , a priest named Finnegan ( Howard Duff ) & Diane's son ( Paul Walker ) are having dinner when they hear screaming from across the street , Margo ( Stella Stevens ) claims that her husband Roy ( Paul Dooley ) has been killed by a monster that came out of the closet . A national emergency is called & the army is called in to combat the threat that the monster in the closet poses . . . Written & directed by Bob Dahlin I was somewhat surprised that Monster in the Closet was a decent little film . The script is a homage to all those 50's type monster films , from the General who wants to just kill the threat to the scientist who wants to study it & the priest who who thinks religion is the key . The reporter who looks & feels like Clarke Kent from Superman as the hero & the attractive female . Because of the type of comedy horror hat this film is it starts to drag a little & it starts to get a bit boring . The term ' one-joke-film ' springs to mind . There are a few amusing moments & if your familiar with the type of film that Monster in the Closet spoofs then you may get a fair amount of enjoyment out of it's 90 odd minute duration . I doubt anyone would want to watch it more than once though & the pointless constant on screen captions become highly annoying . Director Dahlin films with competence on an obviously low budget . The monster itself looks a bit rubbery but I didn't think it looked too bad . There is no blood or gore whatsoever so forget about anything like that . There is a touch of nudity in a shower scene . Apparently Monster in the Closet was filmed in 1983 & was picked-up & released by Troma in 1987 , make of that what you will . Technically Monster in the Closet is pretty good , nothing outstanding & it has cheap production values throughout but it ended up being better than I had expected . The acting isn't brilliant but again by no means the worst I've seen , Carradine makes an appearance for all of 4 minutes at the start . Monster in the Closet is a decent little homage to many other sci-fi horror films & fans of those genres would probably get more out of it than others . I personally think it's worth a one-off watch .
" As Holmes would say there is nothing more deceptive than the obvious . " By no means the best adaptation of the classic Holmes mystery .	The Hound of the Baskervilles once again has the world famous detective Sherlock Holmes ( Matt Frewer ) & his trusty assistant Dr . Watson ( Kenneth Walsh ) tackle yet another puzzling mystery . On this occasion Holmes is contacted by Dr . James Mortimer ( Gordon Masten ) who wants Holmes to investigate the death of his friend Sir Charles Baskerville ( Barrie Baldano ) over which he has suspicion's . Dr . Mortimer tells of a legend that dates back 100's of years to the very first Baskerville , Hugo ( Ben Gauthier as Benoit Gauthier ) & a hound from hell that has terrorised the Baskerville family ever since & that next to Sir Charle's body he discovered large footprints that he claims were made by the huge demon hound from hell . Holmes is intrigued & agrees to take the case on & ask's Watson to accompany Dr . Mortimer & the last of the Baskervilles Sir Henry ( Jason London ) back to Baskerville Hall while he attends to business in London . The mystery deepens as Sir Henry receives a letter warning him to stay away from the moors , an escaped prisoner ( Jason Cavalier ) is on the prowl on the moors , strange terrifying noises are heard late at night , mysterious letters to Sir Charles asking to meet him the night he died , local superstitions & a long list of suspects that Holmes & Watson must unravel & discover the truth . . . This Canadian produced made-for-TV feature length Sherlock Holmes mystery was directed by Rodney Gibbons this was the first of four feature length Holmes stories made by CTV & is OK but far from the best version of this classic story ever made . The script by Joe Wiesenfeld based on the novel by Arthur Conan Doyle is pretty much like any other film version that I have seen although it's not as layered as I would have liked . It's very linear with few clues to ponder over , there is a distinct lack of action as the hound itself barely features & there are too few suspects . Since Holmes is missing for most of this particular adventure it's left to Watson to carry the story which I didn't think he did that well , the ending is also a disappointment with a poor reveal & not much in the way of any excitement . Having said that the story is still strong & entertains it's just there are so many better adaptations it's hard to recommend this particular one . Technically this The Hound of the Baskervilles is one of the poorest & impoverished versions I've seen which counts against it . The costumes are all over the place & look shabby , the music & editing are poor & reek of a cheap made-for-TV production , the production design is bland & the interior of Baskerville Hall are obviously fake looking sets , the exterior is apparently Montacute House in Somerset , England but the moor shots definitely aren't shot in England as I've lived here all my life & it just doesn't look like any moor I've ever seen . The atmosphere is non existent , the hound looks really bad with stupid red plastic eyes & the whole production just doesn't feel or look right even if I can't quite put my finger on it as to why . Director Gibbons obviously knows nothing about creating tension as the horror & flashback scenes are filmed in slow motion , blurred colours & they jerk around all over the place which just cheapens everything even more . The acting is very bad , Matt Frewer is bizarre as Holmes & I can't describe how he plays him . Most people regard Jeremy Brett as the ultimate Holmes which I agree with & anyone familiar with his wonderful performances will be horrified by Frewer . One more thing , John Dunn-Hill as Frankland has the worst most pathetic Scottish accent I've ever heard , anywhere , ever . With nothing to distinguish this version of The Hound of the Baskervilles except the overall strength of the story which even these filmmakers couldn't screw up & much better adaptations out there this really is not worth bothering with . Try the made-for-British TV The Hound of the Baskervilles ( 1988 ) version staring Brett which is infinitely superior to this . Worth a watch if your a die-hard Holmes fan or if you can catch it on TV for free otherwise don't consider spending any sort of money or time on it .
" Needless to say we're dealing with a homicide . " Not too bad if taken for what it is .	Bloody Murder 2 : Closing Camp is again set in ' Camp Placid Pines ' deep in the isolated wilderness of rural America 5 years after the original Bloody Murder ( 2000 ) . Teenage camp counsellors Michael ( Kelly Gunning ) , Elvis ( Raymond Novarro Smith ) , Ryan ( Tom Mullen ) , Sophie ( Amanda Magarian ) , Angela ( Tiffany Shepis ) & the troubled Tracy ( Katy Woodruff ) have just spent the summer working at the camp & together with the boss Rick ( Arthur Benjamin ) they just need to lock the camp down for the winter before they go home . Tracy happens to be the sister of Jason ( Tyler Sedustine ) whose body was never found after the gruesome events of 5 years previous . One night round a log fire the story of psycho Trevor Moorhouse is told , an outsider in the group James ( Lane Anderson ) scoffs at the tale & after having a practical joke played on him decides to split . That is until he runs into a machete wielding , mask wearing psycho who chops both of his legs off then smashes his head in with a rock . Has Trevor Moorhouse returned for revenge once again ? What dark secrets do the counsellors hide ? Is everyone who they appear to be ? As the body count begins to rise who will survive . . . Directed by Rob Spera I actually thought Bloody Murder 2 : Closing Camp was alright . The script by John R . Stevenson ( who also penned the original ) plays almost exactly like the original , the game of bloody murder in the wood which ends in a practical joke , the teenage counsellors , the jealous boyfriend being suspected & arrested , the double twist ending , the sequel driven climax & originality is just not a word you can use in conjunction with Bloody Murder 2 : Closing Camp . Having said that it's a better all round film than the first by quite a distance , thankfully this time there are no off-screen murders & unlike the original they're pretty gory . The dialogue is a lot better & doesn't go down the Scream ( 1996 ) route of having lots of in-jokes , homages & taking the mickey out of itself . The character's turn out to be the expected clichés , the innocent girl , the jealous boyfriend , the annoying practical joker , the token black character & the slutty one . It at least tries to have some connection to the original & follow on with the mystery surrounding what happened to Jason but it doesn't really go anywhere . As expected Bloody Murder 2 : Closing Camp rips-off just about every slasher you can think of in some way but the murder mystery elements work well again & manage to maintain ones interest , the ending is a bit silly but sort of cool . Director Spera does a much better job here than Ralph Portillo did on the first , Spera actually films the stalking & murder scenes at night which instantly gives it more tension & atmosphere . The decision to change the hockey mask was also a good one as our murderer in this looks completely different & far more effective . By the way Rob , I don't care what you say if you get into a car & there's a dead body in the back seat you would notice it OK ? The violence & gore is also a welcome addition , a guy has both his legs chopped off & his head caved in , someone has a machete implanted in their face , there's a gory slit throat , someone gets a chainsaw shoved through them & someone gets an arrow through his neck . Unlike the original there is both nudity & sex , just like all good slashers should have . Obviously made-for-video & shot on video rather than film Bloody Murder 2 : Closing Camp is generally well made considering the budget must have been low . The video transfer gives it a slightly cheap look but the special effects are good & the acting isn't too bad either , surprisingly . Bloody Murder 2 : Closing Camp is a decent little slasher film with a fairly good whodunit mystery element that is lacking from many slashers . Surprisingly good & worth a watch for horror fans as long as you have reasonable expectations .
" Dog spy's & monster assassins , this is completely insane . " Entertaining crap .	Watchers II focuses on a secret genetic experiment named ' Project Aesop ' that has thus far produced a super intelligent dog named Einstein & a monstrous deformed mutant creature ( Tom Poser ) who are both psychically connected with one another . During an unfortunate incident in the lab two NSA agents are killed by the creature , the top woman in the job Dr . Glatman ( Mary Woronov ) orders it's creator Dr . Malceno ( Jonathan Farwell ) to destroy it which is an idea he is not too keen on . Dr . Malceno devises a plan to move the creature to safety by creating a distraction so he lets animal rights activists into the lab to cause havoc but things don't go according to plan & the creature escapes as does the super intelligent dog Einstein . The creature wants Einstein but the dog is picked up by Paul Ferguson ( Marc Singer ) who doesn't know what he has gotten himself into . The creature will stop at nothing to get Einstein & starts a murderous campaign of terror to find the dog , Paul quickly becomes aware that he is being hunted by a monster & decides the best form of defence is attack . . . Directed by Thierry Notz this is the second Watchers film in a series that now totals four films , the original Watchers ( 1988 ) , this , Watchers III ( 1994 ) & finally Watchers Reborn ( 1998 ) . I must say right now that I have not seen any other Watchers film so I cannot compare them , sorry . The script by Henry Dominic is based on a novel by Dean R . Koontz ( haven't read it so I can't compare Watchers II to it either ) is really silly , it's stupid , moronic & you can't quite believe what your seeing on screen but when all said & done I enjoyed it for what it was & at least it entertained me which is all I ask for when I watch a film , to be entertained . It moves along at a good pace & is never boring or dull & it's certainly that little bit different which I'm sure most people wouldn't argue with . Of course it goes without saying that Watchers II is far from a brilliant film either conceptually with it's super intelligent Golden Retriever who can understand English & type on a computer keyboard or the creation of a hostile creature for no good reason whatsoever , or technically as it's a pretty low budget affair & it shows . I loved the scene when the monster walked up to a couple of homeless wino's & started drinking with them ! Watchers II takes itself very seriously which actually worked & made me smile on a few occasions at just how daft it was getting . Director Notz does an OK job , some sequences are lit quite well , he keeps the film moving along & there's a decent low budget horror film vibe running through the thing . There isn't much blood or gore , someone is impaled on a hook , there's a decapitated head in a toilet , a clawed back & some splashes of blood & wounds but that's about it . Watchers II must have had a pretty low budget as the monster suit itself is pretty poor , it's obviously just some guy stuck in a rubber suit & the head & mouth have no movement at all , it actually reminded me of the monster from Monster in the Closet ( 1987 ) . . . a bit . The acting was OK , V ( 1984 ) fans will recognise Singer & everyone plays their parts dead straight . When broken down & analysed properly Watchers II is crap , of that there is no doubt . But for all that wrong with it , the duff looking monster & the absurd plot amongst other things I found it quite entertaining & it passed the time nicely enough . I can't recommend it I just can't but on a personal level I thought it was a worthwhile watch , the decision is yours .
Not too bad , saved by the gorgeous Aimee Brooks & a good twist ending .	Monster Man starts with friends Adam ( Eric Jungmann ) & Harley ( Justin Urich ) travelling across the desert highway to attend a friends wedding . While in a roadside bar Harley insults some of the locals & a short time later while back on the road the two friends are menaced by a large monster truck that tries to ram them off the road . Later that night at a roadside motel Adam wakes up to find some roadkill in his bed & along with Harley jumps in his car & speeds off only to discover stowaway hitchhiker Sarah ( Aimee Brooks ) in the back seat . They agree to give her a lift & carry on but the monster trucker won't go away & a trail of death & murder follows the three travellers across the lonely desert highway as they are pursed by a deformed psycho killer . . . Written & directed by Michael Davis this comic horror film firmly has it's tongue placed in it's cheek & is a bit of a mix of genres & other films that have come before it , while Monster Man isn't a great film I did quite like it & the gorgeous Aimee Brooks helps as does a neat twist or two at the end which I genuinely didn't expect . Monster Man is best summed up as a light hearted comic cross between horror themed road films like The Hitcher ( 1986 ) & Jeepers Creepers ( 2001 ) & maybe there's a little of the backwoods horror of the likes of The Texas Chainsaw Massacre ( 1974 ) & Wrong Turn ( 2003 ) thrown in there as well . The Harley character is a bit annoying at times & can get on your nerves although some of the comic dialogue is fairly amusing with some reasonable one-liners although there's very little horror in the opening hour or so & it actually felt more like the comedy film Road Trip ( 2000 ) before the outrageous horror , gore & silly twists kick in during the last third of the film which is where the majority of the entertainment value came as far as I was concerned . I was surprised that I was surprised that the twist surprised me ! At the end of the day & at the end of the ninety minutes Monster Man is a fun modern horror film with an attractive cast , some over-the-top gore & violence & a fairly relaxed light hearted tone which makes it easy to watch & like . Monster Man doesn't have a point , it doesn't try to say anything deep or meaningful & it won't change your views on life or the world but for what it is you could do a lot worse . Visually the best part of Monster Man is Aimee Brooks . Period . She is very sexy in this & looks great in her skimpy black outfit . I recently saw her in The Mangler Reborn ( 2005 ) as well & she's hot in that too . As far as the blood & gore goes there's some good stuff here & none of it's CGI , there's a mangled corpse with it's eyeball hanging out , a guy has his legs run over & squashed & then his head is run over , someone is cut in half , there's a guy with his stomach removed , there's a slashed throat , someone's head is crushed in a vice , eyes are poked out & someone runs into a knife & gets it impaled through his throat . There's one sex scene but strangely there's no nudity . According to the IMDb the monster truck used in Monster Man was built for a paltry $2 , 500 & it was actually made out of wood rather than metal which was spray painted . Apparently it only had a top speed of 30 MPH & the film was sped up & treated to try & give the impression of speed which it plainly didn't have in reality . Apparently this had a budget of about $1 , 000 , 000 in Santo Clarita in California & the production values are slick enough , it's well made although the CGI monster truck scenes look poor . The gory prosthetic special effects are impressive . The acting is pretty good although Justin Urich as Harley can get really overbearing & annoying at times . Monster Man is an entertaining & pretty gory comedy horror film that does tend to move around genres too much but there's some good twists & Aimee Brooks is a total babe who I could probably look at all day . Nowhere near the worst film ever & anyone looking for some light hearted horror , gore & fun could do a lot , lot worse .
OK psychological thriller .	Raising Cain starts with schizo therapist Dr . Carter Nix ( John Lithgow ) kidnapping a young boy named Sam & murdering his Mother Karen ( Teri Austin ) with his sinister twin Cain ( John Lithgow again ) egging him on . He delivers the boy Sam to his mentally unstable Father ( Lithgow again in ageing make-up ) so he can conduct various studies & experiments on him . All the while this is happening Carter's wife Jenny ( Lolita Davidovich ) has started to have an affair with an old friend named Jack Dante ( Steven Bauer ) , however Carter finds out & frames Jack for the next murder his twin Cain commits . Things go from bad to worse in a increasingly confusing situation as more dead bodies pop up & more children disappear , it's up to California's finest Lieutenant Terri ( Gregg Henry ) & his partner Sergeant Cully ( Tom Bower ) to delve into the past to try & shed some light on the present in an attempt to unravel the mystery before them . . . Written & directed by Brian De Palma Raising Cain was his return to the psycho killer / thriller genre where he had enormous critical & public success with Sisters ( 1973 ) , Dressed to Kill ( 1980 ) , Blow Out ( 1981 ) & Body Double ( 1984 ) & I would think Raising Cain was supposed to be a clever psychological thriller with plenty of twists & turns , broadly speaking it is but it does have it's fair share of problems . De Palma made Raising Cain just after the absolute disaster ( financial anyway if nothing else ) that was The Bonfire of the Vanities ( 1990 ) so to try & get his career back on track he turned to the genre that produced his most successful films . The script moves along at a fair pace but I fear it may lose a lot of it's audience well before the twist climax which is actually pretty obvious . The film is littered with flashbacks & dream sequences which disrupts the narrative & flow of the film & eventually it just becomes annoying as your never sure if what's happening is really happening . The films main twist is reminiscent of that seen in Fight Club ( 1999 ) but nowhere near as effective or surprising . There are just too many annoying aspects for Raising Cain to be really good as far as I'm concerned . I also didn't really feel anything for any of the character's especially Jenny which was a big problem considering she was central to the story , you need character's in a film to emote with & there just wasn't any in Raising Cain . Having said that it at least tries to make the audience think about what's happening on screen , tries to be a bit different , it's a fairly original concept & on a basic level it's fairly watchable & intriguing for those with the patience . Director De Palma does a nice job & there's his usual homages to other films & long tracking shots , including a very impressive unbroken shot following three people through a large police station complete with lifts & stairs . The action at the climax takes place over three separate floors of a motel & again he manages to use single shots to move across & up & down the various floors . Although the IMDb lists Raising Cain as a Horror / Thriller there's no gore in it & apart from a few ' shock ' moments there is very little here to suggest that it's a horror film . With a supposed budget of about $11 , 000 , 000 Raising Cain is well made & has that Hollywood polish to it . On a technical level it's very accomplished . The acting was poor from all involved , I just didn't care for or about anyone in the film at all & the worst offenders surely have to be Davidovich as Jenny & Bauer as Jack , really bad show guys . Lithgow in drag at the so-called shock ending is just about the scariest thing in Raising Cain closely followed by his general all round performance . Raising Cain is an OK thriller at best , an absolute mess of a film at worst & I'd personally put it somewhere smack between the two as a whole . Some parts work , some don't . Worth a watch if your prepared to concentrate but I doubt anyone would want to see it more than once so it's probably safer to catch this one on TV rather than splash decent money out to buy it . Both Dressed to Kill & Body Double are far superior to Raising Cain so watch one of those instead .
" Every time you pull out that gun my paper work backs up for three God damned months . " Decent sequel .	Magnum Force is set in San Francisco where infamous cop Insp . ' Dirty ' Harry Callahan ( Clint Eastwood ) is at loggerheads with his superiors over his unique & brutal brand of law enforcement . Carmine Ricci ( Richard Devon ) is allowed to walk free after a judge acquits him from a murder charge on a technicality , the triumphant Ricci drives away from the court house a totally free man but a traffic cop pulls his car over & proceeds to shoot dead everyone inside . Then more big name criminals are assassinated & when the innocent get in the way of these rogue killers plans they are scarified for the greater good , Harry is put on the case & quickly comes the the conclusion that there is an organisation within the department who are acting as judge , jury & executioner & killing all of San Francisco's top criminals & Harry sets out to bring them down . . . Directed by Ted Post , although sources including Eastwwod himself claims that he & second unit director Buddy Van Hoen directed more of the film than Post , this is the second of five Dirty Harry films & I quite liked it & definitely put it above average although I wouldn't call it great or anything . The script by John Millius & Michael Cimino is more of a thriller than a straight action flick & has an interesting premise that is still , perhaps even more so , relevant today as there's barely a news broadcast or edition of a national newspaper that goes by without some sort of criminal getting a ridiculously small sentence ( I can remember one here in the UK recently where a convicted paedophile was let off because there were no prison places near where his family lived & the fact that if placed in a prison father away he wouldn't get any visitors & that would be stressful & cruel on him & his family , I kid you not ) or an interview with a cop who feel like their hands are tied with petty rules , paper work & laws seemingly geared towards protecting the guilty rather than the innocent . You can see where the character's are coming from in Magnum Force , both the rogue cops & Harry who despite not liking the system understands it's the only one we have so ultimately defends it , it's a decent with a moral message so I'll give it some credit for that alone . Unfortunately it isn't all plain sailing here as I thought the film went on for too long & was simply too slow , it's well past the 50 minute mark before Harry is even put on the case for cryin ' out loud & the identity of the rogue killers is far , far too obvious . Basically I felt that Magnum Force was a well written & thought out film which could have used a little tightening up during the editing , this could have been an absolute classic as it is it falls just sort . Director Post does OK , the action is competently handled with the motorbike chase at the end standing out as the best set-piece the film has to offer . I watched a pristine 2 : 35 : 1 widescreen print of this last night & for a film shot over 30 years ago back in ' 73 it sure does look good , if you can please try to watch the widescreen version . There's not much violence here , a few shootings but nothing excessive by todays standards . There's some nudity as well if that sort of thing interests you . I also have to mention the pimp mobile , the big black mother who drives around in a huge pink car with orange tan roof & huge triple exhausts running along the side ! Talk about drawing attention to yourself , a stark lesson in how not to be inconspicuous . . . Technically the film is good , it's well made on location in San Francisco using some of the cities sights as backdrops . The acting is fine , Eastwood is good , David Soul's performance here apparently got him the job as Hutch in the TV series Starsky and Hutch ( 1975 - 1979 ) & Hal Holbrook is decent as Harry's long suffering boss . Magnum Force is a good thriller , those looking for out-and-out action may feel a little disappointed so bear that in mind . This was a sequel to Dirty Harry ( 1971 ) & was itself followed by a further three sequels , The Enforcer ( 1976 ) , Sudden Impact ( 1983 ) & The Dead Pool ( 1989 ) in which Harry finally hung up his 357 Magnum . . .
Surprising decent Creature Feature .	Bottom Feeder starts as scientist Dr . Nathaniel Leech ( James Binkley ) meets up with his rich billionaire benefactor Charles Deaver ( Richard Fitzpatrick ) who has been funding his experiments into a serum called A12 which is supposed to regenerate dead cells . Deaver is desperate for the miracle serum since he was badly burnt in a car accident & is dying , Leech wants the serum to work because his wife Miranda is dying of leukaemia . Leech says he has perfected it but Deaver wants proof & gets his people to beat him badly while his ruthless female associate ( Wendy Anderson ) breaks his hand under her foot & shoots him in the legs . She then locks Leech in some underground tunnels after injecting him with the A12 serum to see whether it works & his body regenerates . Unfortunately Leech mutates into a mutant deformed half man half rat creature that has an appetite for human flesh . . . This Canadian production was written & directed by Randy Daudlin & one has to say I rather enjoyed Bottom Feeder in a simple run of the mill Creature Feature sort of way . I mean it's not original in any way , anyone who is familiar with the Creature Feature sub genre will be able to predict what happens fairly easily , it's clichéd & generally speaking it feels rather unadventurous but for what it is & what it tries to be it's an entertaining example of a Creature Feature . The basic storyline is the usual 21st Century genetic & scientific experiments gone wrong & some sort of monster is created which then decides to kill & eat every human being it comes across , there's the dark isolated location where a group of people are trapped & stalked by the monster , the whole thing about the US military wanting it as some sort of ultimate soldier / weapon is here & there's even the obligatory twist ending which leaves things wide open for a sequel . Once Bottom Feeder gets going it's an enjoyable Creature Feature , the character's are better than usual with some decent dialogue & I especially liked the way that no-one split up & their main priority was to stick together until they escape to safety although the self sacrificing villain at the end who decides to give up their life to rectify a wrong is the only time I felt the character's went into groan inducing cliché . It takes a while to get started but once it does it's a good solid horror flick that I enjoyed much , much more than I had expected . Director Daudlin does alright , he keeps things moving along & it actually looks like a proper film rather . A lot of low budget horror films look like they were shot on camcorders with shaky hand held cinematography but Bottom Feeder is really well shot where you can see whats going on & whats happening at all times . It's also edited properly as well with no ' blink & you'll miss it ' quick fire cuts . A lot of low budget horror films these days use horrible CGI computer effects which look awful but Bottom Feeder uses good old fashioned on set special effects , fake blood , prosthetics & an impressive rubber monster suit . The creature looks good but it's long sticking out ears do look a little silly & to my eyes with it's humanoid shape , pointed ears & snout it looked more like a Werewolf than a rat but that doesn't really matter . There's some decent gore , heads are pulled off , jaws ripped off , ripped apart bodies are seen & there's a pleasing amount of blood splatter . Technically the film is very good & seems to have had high production values . Shot in Hamilton in Ontario in Canada . According to the ' Trivia ' section on the IMDb for Bottom Feeder star Tom Sizemore quit the film after two days but eventually returned & finished it with the entire situation covered in Sizemore's reality show Shooting Sizemore ( 2007 ) which I would actually be interested in seeing but have no means to do so . It's very surprising that a quality well known actor like Sizemore would appear in such a film as Bottom Feeder but he could have picked worse films to be in that's for sure . The acting is fine with decent performances from all involved . Bottom Feeder is maybe the best Creature Feature I have seen in a while , it's not Shakespeare or Oscar worthy but for most horror fans it'll pass 90 odd minutes . Not to be confused with another film called Bottom Feeder ( 2006 ) which is a comedy made the same year , it's just typical isn't it ? You wait a lifetime for a film called Bottom Feeder to be made & then two come along at once !
A complete autopsy on camera , nothing else .	Autopsy : Through the Eyes of Death's Detectives , the version I saw also had the on screen subtitle ' Voices of Death ' , sees pathologist Dr . Thomas T . Noguchi M . D . who was apparently responsible for autopsy's on Marilyn Monroe & Robert F . Kennedy according to the DVD box I have & two assistant's or two students or one assistant & one students conduct an autopsy in unflinching detail . First the body of a woman is placed on a metal table & a basic examination of the body takes place , the corpses face & genital area are both blurred throughout . Noguchi takes a scalpel & cuts the corpses chest & stomach & peels the skin back , he then uses what looks like a pair of garden clippers to cut through the ribs after which he removes the sternum which exposes the main organs . Noguchi then proceeds to cut out & examine in closer detail the heart , lungs , liver , intestines , brain & finally the spine & spinal cord . One of the assistant's / students then sews her back together again & pops her back in the freezer . This made-for-video documentary was co-produced & directed by Michael Kriegsman & according to the IMDb has the tag-line ' The Dark Side of Medicine ' & the DVD I own features artwork that depicts two surgical saws set against a blood soaked background which leads me to think that it is being advertised as a Faces of Death ( 1979 ) style exploitation shockumentary . Well , I can tell you now that this was intended as a serious documentary as it's full of dry medical terminology & facts . There is no narration , no music , neither Noguchi or his students / assistants are introduced & feels more like a medical training video . No explanation is given for any of the medical jargon or what's happening on screen & as I'm not involved with the medical profession at all I found myself becoming lost & losing interest . One other thing I really need to say in this regard is that Noguchi obviously isn't American or a native English speaker , he mumbles often in broken English in his accent behind a surgical mask which makes the problem even worse ! I could barely understand a word he was saying & couple this with the constant bewildering medical phrases I found it incredibly frustrating to listen to & try to understand . The autopsy itself is presented with graphic detail & only those with strong stomachs need apply , the scene where he slices her scalp & saws her cranium to expose her brain is pretty hard to watch . That's about it really , you get an autopsy complete with live sound as it happens until it's over & then the credits run . There is no context given to anything , it's what you see is what you get . I can't say I particularly enjoyed it but at the same time there is a certain morbid fascination & I definitely have the stomach for this sort of thing which helps . It's fine at what it does but the lack of any explanation , questions , narration or reasoning leaves a very empty somewhat pointless feeling to the whole thing . Could have been better but does what it promises I suppose , worth a watch for those with the stomach .
Short ' making of ' documentary .	The Making of ' Poltergeist ' is a seven minute fifteen seconds long documentary about the making of one of the best haunted house horror films ever , namely Poltergeist ( 1982 ) . This actually seems quite random as it is made up entirely of on the set footage , it's interesting to see Spielberg appearing to what looks like direct several scenes , he seems has a BIG say in one particular sequence & we hear him discussing the film while the films credited director Tobe Hooper is only seen once in the background & doesn't contribute anything to the interview footage which was obviously taken on-set between takes . Rumours have persisted that Spielberg actually shot most of Poltergeist & made all the major creative decisions & looking at this brief on the set footage that's definitely the impression that I get & it's hard to argue . There are some great behind-the-scenes footage of the sets , some of the special effects sequences & the crew working , unfortunately there is next to nothing about the actual psychical making of it , apart from an interview with star Craig T . Nelson about how he was wet all the time no-one else is interviewed beside Spielberg & the producer Frank Marshall who produced & directed this short making of . The Making of ' Poltergeist ' is a very short look at Poltergeist , I'd say watch it for the candid & cool behind-the-scenes footage rather than any actual deep meaningful information on the making of it because there isn't any .
I thought it was OK .	Joy Ride starts as Lewis Thomas ( Paul Walker ) buys a 1971 Chrysler Newport so he can pick up & impress a girl he fancies named Venna ( Leelee Sobieski ) who has just split up from her boyfriend & wants to get away from things , Lewis sense's his chance & offers to her a ride across country with him to his parents house . On the way Lewis learns that his brother Fuller ( Steve Zahn ) has been arrested , Lewis bails him out & also offers him a lift home . As they pass the time they start to talk to truckers on a CB radio , Fuller goads Lewis into playing a practical joke on one such trucker who calls himself Rusty Nail . It all ends in tears as they send the trucker to a motel room supposedly to meet a woman but instead he finds a fat man who he rips the jaw off , Rusty Nail then sets out to get some revenge on Fuller & Lewis as he pursues them across the long isolated highways . . . Retitled Road Kill here in the UK because Joy Ride is an unpleasant term used over her to describe young people who steal cars for kicks & had various working titles including Candy Cane , Highway Horror & bizarrely Squelch , directed by John Dahl I thought this part thriller , part action , part road trip , part psychological horror flick was pretty good but not perfect . The script by J . J . Abrams & Clay Tarver has a good first hour which builds the story quite nicely but then it grinds to a halt & it becomes a teen road trip film for a while before an improbable ending . For a start you can see the similarities between Joy Ride & Steven Spielberg's classic Duel ( 1971 ) in the sense of an unknown psychopath in a huge truck menacing someone , this film doesn't really have the tight tension & narrative of Duel & the lack of any identity for Rusty Nail can be seen both bad & good depending on your viewpoint . The film also feels similar to The Hitcher ( 1986 ) on occasions , I suppose if your going to steal ideas you might as well steal them from the best . The character's are OK , the pace is erratic & I'd have liked it a little shorter , when all said & done not that much happens & if you think about it too much there's plenty of plot holes . For instance how did Rusty Nail know so much about Fuller & Lewis ? How did he recover the CB radio ? How could he know Lewis would find the CB radio in his car & talk to him before it blew it ? How did Rusty Nail know they would take the highway where he had altered the signs ? If you suspend your disbelief long enough I suppose there's a decent enough film here but I don't think it's one I'd want to watch again in any sort of hurry . Director Zahn does OK , the locations are suitably isolated & the widescreen image captures that isolation nicely . The film is quite tense at times especially at the end as Venna is tied to a chair with a shotgun pointing at her head the trigger of which is connected to the door so the instant anyone opens the door it will go off , there's some humour here as well & it's pretty engaging to . There isn't really any gore or violence so to speak which is obviously a disappointment . Jeepers Creepers ( 2001 ) came out the same year as Joy Ride & both are fairly similar as they feature kids in trouble on isolated roads although Jeepers Creepers is a better film . With a supposed budget of about $23 , 000 , 000 Joy ride had a much bigger budget than I had originally thought , it's well made for sure but I can't really see where all the money went as there are no big stars in it , there are no big action set-pieces or CGI computer effects . The acting is good , the character's are fairly likable . Joy Ride is a good film to watch , it has it's good moments for sure although there's some bad ones in there as well & if you think about it too much the story just doesn't hold up . Worth a watch for sure but maybe rent it or catch it on TV for free as a full blooded purchase isn't a good idea .
I didn't think it was that bad .	Ballistic : Ecks vs . Sever starts as Rayne Gant ( Taliso Soto ) arrives back home in the US after having been in Europe with her son Michael ( Aidan Drummond ) , however her husband & his father ex-FBI turned freelance baddie Robert Gant ( Gregg Henry ) has secretly used his son to smuggle a small robotic device into the US in his bloodstream . Unfortunately it's a miniature electronic assassin which will kill it's target from the inside . . . Things get even worse when Michael is kidnapped by ex-FBI agent ( ex-FBI agents grow on trees in this film ) Sever ( Lucy Liu ) & holds him for ransom , meanwhile burned out ex-FBI agent Jeremiah Ecks ( Antonio Banderas ) is called out of retirement by agent Julio Martin ( Miguel Sandoval ) to find Sever , the kid & the robotic assassin . At first Ecks refuses but when Julio says his supposedly dead wife Vin is still alive & he can find her Ecks has no choice . . . This American German co-production was produced & directed by Wych Kaosayananda under the silly & somewhat childish name ' Kaos ' so not only does it have one of the silliest & dullest titles in action film history it was directed by someone with the worst pseudonym in action film history . While many seem to think Ballistic : Ecks vs . Sever is the worst film in history I didn't think it was too bad , I mean what did these people expect exactly ? The script by Alan McElroy moves along like an absolute rocket & clocking in at about 90 minutes it doesn't outstay it's welcome , in fact one might say it moves along too fast & while there are plenty of large explosions , fights , chases , shoot-outs & action scenes the actual story is severely lacking as are the character's & dialogue which amount to virtually zero . Ecks & Sever are each given a clichéd background where someone they love was killed & despite the ' vs . ' in the title they don't actually end up fighting each other at all & in fact start working together fairly early on the film to take out Gregg Henry's dull ex-FBI villain Gant . The story just doesn't hold up & is given so little attention that Ballistic : Ecks vs . Sever ends up feeling like a collection of unconnected set-pieces albeit fairly impressive ones . I didn't think it was boring that's for sure & there are enough bangs & guns in it to pass the time harmlessly enough but just don't expect anything particularly memorable or deep as this ain't it . Director Kaos ( please ) does alright & there are some spectacular action scenes like when Banderas flies off a motorbike & two cars crash & flip over his head or a scene when a prison bus is attacked on a busy freeway while on the other hand some of the action scenes are a little dumb like the amount of time the prison bus skids for or how Lucy Liu can just disappear after shooting up an entire shopping centre & then freeway . The explosions are big , the martial arts fights are decent , it has fast paced dance music to accompany the action scenes & there are plenty of futuristic looking weaponry which get lots of use , on a dumb action flick level Ballistic : Ecks vs . Sever on the surface is as good as anything out there but it just doesn't quite come off & is strangely lifeless , it doesn't have much energy & apart from the impressive set-pieces there really isn't anything going on at all . With an astronomical sounding budget of about $70 , 000 , 000 I'd have thought the executives at Warner Bros . sht themselves when they saw what their 70 big ones brought , I don't think it did anything at the box-office which isn't a surprise as bad word of mouth probably killed it . It's certainly well made & has that big budget Hollywood polish about it though , it was mostly shot in Vancouver in Canada . The acting is rather flat & nobody seems that interested in it , I will mention Talisa Soto though as I've always liked her & she's looking as hot as ever in this . Ballistic : Ecks vs . Sever is a loud , fast paced action packed flick that could have been great if the makers had actually bothered to give it some sort of interesting story which they didn't so it isn't . I quite liked it if only for the explosions & action though & I certainly don't entertain this idea that it's ' the worst film ever ' because it's far from the worst film ever .
" We've been on top of the Earth long enough , it's about time we found out what's underneath " Entertaining fantasy adventure .	At the Earth's Core begins in a Victorian factory . It moulds special steel parts as workers assemble a strange machine to Dr . Abner Perry's ( Peter Cushing ) specific blueprints . Dr Perry has designed & created what he describes as a ' high calibration drilling machine ' , a machine that he hopes will bore it's way to the centre of the Earth . The day of it's maiden voyage has arrived , the machine nicknamed ' the iron mole ' by it's pilot David Innes ( Doug McClure ) , is taken to a hill somewhere in Wales & Dr . Perry plans to burrow through it to the other side . At first things go well but the machine becomes uncontrollable & both David & Abner lose consciousness . Eventually they come round & discover that they have burrowed to the very core of the Earth where they are shocked to find a whole new world named Pellucidar . It's a prehistoric world full of tribes & monsters , a world where the darkness of night never falls . After an encounter with a large monster that has a parrot's head but the body of a reptile Abner & David are captured by a race known as the Sagoth , humanoid type creatures with pig like facial features . The Sagoth are controlled by the Mahar , a race of intelligent , telepathic flying reptile things that rule Pellucidar with the help of the Sagoth . They capture humans & enslave them making them work , the Mahar's also like to eat pretty young girls which doesn't go down that well . When David & Abner discover what the Mahar's are up to they decide to help out the people of Pellucidar by leading a rebellion & hopefully freeing them from their evil forever . To complicate things even more David falls for a Princess named Dia ( Caroline Munro ) but others want her as well including a dodgy guy named Hoojah the Sly One ( Sean Lynch ) & a fat bloke named Jubal the Ugly One ( Micheal Crane ) , David has to watch his back as if it's not flying telepathic birds & prehistoric monsters trying to eat him he's getting agro from jealous cavemen . . . Directed by Kevin Connor At the Earth's Core was the second in a quartet of similar themed films from the British production company Amicus , the first was The Land that Time Forgot ( 1974 ) , then came this , the third was The People that Time Forgot ( 1977 ) & finally concluded with Warlords of Atlantis ( 1978 ) all starred Doug McClure & were directed by Connor . The script for At the Earth's Core by Milton Subotsky , based on the novel by Edgar Rice Burroughs of the same name , was very entertaining . It moves along like a rocket , we're at the Earth's core & seeing monsters within the first fifteen minutes & generally speaking the film carries on at a great pace . Luckily it never seems to take itself too seriously . It contains likable characters , good action adventure elements , the obligatory monsters & even has time to chuck in a bit of romance . However , I could have done without the mushy sentimentality at the end . A lot of people seem to criticise the special effects in At the Earth's Core & to be fair they ain't all that hot but they add a certain charm & personality to the film overall . I quite liked the monsters in this actually , from the Mahar's to the giant fire breathing frog creature . Just forget about the obvious wire work or the silly man in a rubber monster suit trying to walk menacingly , sit back & enjoy , you never know you might have some fun as I did . The production design was impressive , Pellucidar looks quite good with it's purple sky & jungle landscapes with it's bizarre plants , giant mushroom's & the City of the Mahar's with it's underground caverns & flowing lava . I also really liked the look of the drilling machine , both inside & out . The acting is OK , I'm a huge Cushing fan & think he's a great actor & I really liked him in this . Cushing plays Abner with a goofy charm , referring to the Sagoth as ' unpleasent characters ' or when faced with a rampaging monster he says ' yes , it does seem a somewhat aggressive looking creature ' or when the Mahar's try to control him he comments ' you can't mesmerise me , I'm British ! ' . McClure makes for a decent hero & Munro is fine , if a little underused , as the love interest & again there's a great bit when Dia says ' it's Jubal the Ugly One ' to which McClure replies after seeing him ' you can say that again ' . Personally I like this type of ' lost world ' film & At the Earth's Core is a good example of the genre . On the down side the special effects do hurt it at the end of the day as it's sometimes a little hard to keep a straight face & the film definitely loses some credibility because of it . I also thought that there was a little too much walking around in caves which did start to become annoying , the fact that except for McClure nobody else has that much screen time & I didn't understand the explanation given for the Mahar's power . Overall I think At the Earth's Core is a good Saturday morning fantasy adventure film with a little bit of romance thrown in for good measure that's suitable for all ages , all that's left to say is that bad special effects don't automatically make for a bad film just as the opposite is true .
Vastly overrated in my opinion , but still worth a watch none the less .	Class of 1984 starts as new music teacher Mr . Andrew Norris ( Perry King ) arrives at an inner city hell hole of a school named Abraham Lincoln High , he is somewhat shocked to discover the pupils carrying switchblades , selling drugs , intimidating other teachers & students & generally behaving in a very anti-social way to each other . He quickly becomes friends with a biology teacher named Terry Corrigan ( Roddy McDowall ) who tells him to just get through the day as best he can , ignore what he sees & not to try & fight it . However Norris can't do that especially when a drug dealer named Peter Stegman ( Timothy Van Patten ) & his gang sell drugs to someone who then dies , Norris tries to bring Stegman to justice but the principal ( David Gardner ) & the police say they can't do anything due to lack of evidence . As the feud between Norris & Stegman grows they become determined to nail each other by whatever means necessary . . . This Canadian production was executive produced , co-written & directed by Mark Lester & I personally thing it's way overrated after hearing so many good things about it , I just didn't think it delivered the goods . The script by Lester , John Saxton & Tom Holland plays like a drama for most of it's running time , I found the first 45 minutes or so pretty tedious although it does set the story up quite nicely I have to admit I was starting to get bored . I don't think the character's were that great & I'm not sure how many people would have put themselves & their family on the line like Norris did , there are probably people out there who would but not many . It's your basic one man who gets screwed by the system , no matter how hard he tries the system lets him down & the thugs who know their rights & use them to the maximum to literally get away with murder . Yes it all sounds very familiar & the world in which we live now over 25 years on from when Class of 1984 was made isn't that dissimilar to the one portrayed in it , in that regard it's a depressing reminder of the way things are & the fact that we knew back then the way things were headed , then again maybe I'm reading too much into a largely dull exploitation film . For what it's worth I thought it was watchable , it told a relevant story perfectly adequately & it moved along at a reasonable pace but overall I felt disappointed when it had finished , I certainly wouldn't want to watch it again & it just didn't grip , engage or do that much for me . Director Lester does OK & fills the film with plenty of social & moral commentary which appears to be quite knowing , he seems to like graffiti covered sets as well . The whole look of the film is a bit post apocalyptic , there are some fight scenes which are OK but not that memorable & there's not much gore either , someone has their arm sliced off with a band saw , there are some skinless rabbits & that's about it . It could have done with a bit more violence I reckon & the sleaze factor was also lacking , the rape scene is as tame as you could imagine , I Spit on your Grave ( 1978 ) or MS . 45 ( 1981 ) this ain't . With a supposed budget of about $4 , 300 , 000 Class of 1984 is well made with decent production values . The acting was alright , McDowall pops up every so often & a young chubby Michael J . Fox gets stabbed in the kidney . Class of 1984 is an OK film for sure , there a far worse out there but for me it was lacking that magical ingredient that turns a good film into a great one & I can't quite put my finger on it . Anyway , it's worth a watch but it's nothing spectacular . Followed by the much better Class 0f 1999 ( 1990 ) which goes for proper horror / sci-fi & a direct sequel to that Class of 1999 II : The Substitute ( 1994 ) which is rubbish .
Fairly watchable horror sequel .	The film opens with a scrolling caption informing us of what scanners are . The film begins proper at some Christmas party . Alex Monet ( Steve Parrish ) and his best friend are talking to some girls . The conversation turns to scanners . The girls don't believe they exist . Alex is a scanner and his friend convinces him to prove the girls wrong . So using his psychic power he makes his friend slide backwards on his own . Someone then grabs Alex and pats him on the back , Alex is surprised and loses control of his powers , his friend is jerked back violently and out of the balcony doors over the guard rail and to his death 40 odd floor to the concrete pavement below . Oops . Alex is upset , even though officially it was ruled an accident . We learn that he has traveled all over the world and finally decided to settle at a monastery in Thailand so he can learn to control his powers . Meanwhile back home his sister Helana Monet ( the sexy Liliana Komorowska ) is trying to lead a normal life . However see experiences severe pain and headaches . Her and Alex's father who adopted them , Dr Elton Monet ( Colin Fox ) is the owner of a large medical research company and is trying to invent a drug in the form of a patch which releases the drug into the bloodstream through the skin , eventually Dr Monet thinks it will help all scanners . He tells Helana about this drug , and that at this stage it's highly experimental and hasn't been tested properly . One night when the pain becomes unbearable Helana tries the drug , immediately the pain disappears . The next morning at breakfast outside a Pigeon craps on her hand , she stares at it and using her powers makes it explode . The drug has changed her from a nice , sweet girl into a wild , power-crazed murderer in mere hours ! Later that night she visits Dr Baumann ( Harry Hill ) who is performing experiments on scanners . She frees all the scanners in his care and gives them patches so she can control their psychic powers too . From then on she sets her evil plan for world domination in action ! The family lawyer Micheal ( Daniel Pilon ) becomes suspicious and tracks Alex down . He convinces Alex to go back home . Once back Helana realizes that Alex can stop her so she uses other scanners to try and kill him . Alex survives and enlists the help of research scientist and Helana's best friend Joyce Stone ( Valerie Valois ) . Together they discover Helana is going to transmit her mind controlling signals using video and into tens of millions of American homes through their T . V . s ! Competently but sometimes flatly directed by Christian Duguay , and called scanner force here in the UK , this was better than I expected , thanks to a script by B . J . Nelson , Julie Richard and David Preston ( it took three people to write this ? ! ) that at least keeps things moving at a fair pace and is fairly entertaining if a little silly at times . But the films main ace up it's sleeve is Liliana Komorowska as Helana , the films over the top villainness . As far as I'm aware I've never heard of her before , or seen her in any other film , but I really liked her in this . Probably better than the film deserves to be honest . She's a sexy , dominant , evil and devious , murdering scanner , by the end of the film I really wanted her to die in the most painful gory way possible , unfortunately I didn't get my wish , which seemed a bit of an anti climax . Easily the films best sequence involves her , she walks into Dr Baumanns office , dressed in a long coat , a sexy mini skirt , knee high leather boots and a white scarf , she looks classy , dominant and sexy . She teases and plays with Baumann , making his finger explode , and then finally making his head explode as well . She slowly walks around the facility killing the remaining guards using her powers before eventually making an over the top speech to her fellow scanner to try and convince them to join her , and help her carry out her evil plans . At one point she says " we shouldn't be at the bottom of the dung heap , we should be at the top ! " , she's class all the way through and makes the film watchable all on her own , and she gets naked in a hot tub as well ! Alex makes a likable hero . We get some nudity and sex , at some points it looks like a cheap porno , especially with the busty blond nurse hitting on Alex ! She is half undressed on top of Alex on a pool table , four men burst in and one says " what do we have here a rapist ? " , the nurse replies " oh no , he was willing ! " . The gore was sort of disappointing , there is only one exploding head and it's only on screen for about a second , blink and you'll miss it . Although I did like the sequence where Alex kills another scanner by spinning him around in a revolving door ! There is an action sequence where Alex on his motorbike is chased by four scanners dressed like 1930's gangsters in a bus , but because of the low budget there are no other cars on the road at all , it looks a bit sad actually ! The ending is a bit of a let down also , nothing more than Helana's patch falling off turning back into the sweet innocent girl she was at the start of the film . Probably worth a watch at least , if not for Liliana Komorowska's delightful villainness . Watchable , if nothing spectacular .
" Is there any connection between the murders ? " - " Yes , they're all dead . " Not brilliant but quite fun .	Rawhead Rex is set in Ireland where a farmer is trying to clear a field of a huge stone pillar , as he does so lightening strikes the pillar & it falls over . From under where the pillar stood an ancient 8 foot tall demon known as Rawhead Rex ( Heinrich von Schellendorf ) is released , the farmer is turned into mincemeat . American photographer Howard Hollenbeck ( David Dukes ) his wife Elaine ( Kelly Piper ) together their two young children Robbie ( Hugh O'Conor ) & Minty ( Cora Lunny ) are on holiday , a holiday on which Howard is working on his book of sacred religious sites . Meanwhile Rawhead Rex kills a local farmer named Dennis ( John Olohan ) , Ireland's finest Detective Inspector Gissing ( Niall O'Brien ) is on the case . Rex then attacks a caravan site & kills some more people which annoys everyone , Inspector Gissing doesn't believe the stories of monsters told by Howard who saw Rex in the woods . As the Hallenbecks are leaving town Robbie is attacked & killed by Rex , Howard is distraught & sets out to kill Rex with the knowledge he has learned from his investigations of the local Church & it's mythology . . . This English Irish co-production was directed by George Pavlou & is a pretty bad film in all respects although it's fun to watch if nothing else . The script was written by Clive Barker based on his own short story , it moves along at a fair pace & it's never boring but it's just too silly to be completely effective . The film feels like a basic monster on the loose randomly killing people with a few of the complex religious ideas & themes that Barker likes so much shining through but they are ultimately lost in the daftness of it . There's a scene in which a woman runs through a wood with her boyfriend supposedly holding her hand but when she checks she is holding his severed hand , as if you wouldn't notice . The dialogue is funny at times & the film has no subtly at all as Rex walks around making silly roaring noises , the bizarre Verger Declan O'Brien ( Ronan Wilmot ) who at first is just plain creepy & then suddenly turns into a foul mouthed nutter who worships Rex & gets a golden shower off him in a unique baptism ceremony ! Some of the stuff this guy comes out with needs to be heard to be believed , very funny . I honestly think the filmmakers set out to make a disturbing , scary & effective horror film but it just comes across as silly & downright funny at times much of which has to be laid at the door of Rawhead Rex himself . Rex looks absolutely awful , his has crossed red eyes , rubber claws , a very rubber face , rubber teeth , a really bad mo-hawk hair-do , a stupid outfit & you can actually see actor Heinrich von Schellendorf's teeth at the back of Rex's mouth , this is most apparent at the rubbishy twist ending when he bursts out of the grave . To it's credit it's good fun to watch & provides a certain amount of dubious entertainment & unintentional laughs . Director Pavlou does an OK job but there's nothing spectacular about it , it has no real style or visual flair . There isn't much atmosphere , there's no scares or shocks & most of Rawhead Rex's entertainment value comes from it's silliness . The most effective scene is when Rex first bursts out of the ground at the start . There's a few decent bits of gore , a few decapitated heads , some bites , a severed hand & some dead bodies . Technically Rawhead Rex is OK , it's well made throughout except for the dodgy rubber monster suit that is . The acting was OK , some of the accents & dialogue are funny at times but that all adds to the cheese factor . Rawhead Rex is a decent watch , it's fun in a way the filmmakers probably didn't intend & I sort of liked it overall . Worth a watch for sure . Apparently Barker was so disappointed with this & other adaptations of his work that he set out to make his own film & thus the brilliant Hellraiser ( 1987 ) was made with Barker as director , at least that's one thing we can thank Rawhead Rex for .
OK second episode .	Jekyll # 1 . 2 continues the story of Dr . Tom Jackman ( James Nesbitt ) who has found out that he is the last living relative of the literary character Dr . Jekyll & also has inherited his unusual problem in which his dark side sometimes takes over & he turns into the evil Mr . Hyde . Here Tom takes his two kids to the zoo but an evil organisation that wants the secret behind Jackman's ability to transform puts his boy in the lion enclosure which only makes Jackman very angry at which point Hyde surfaces & lets these people know he doesn't want anything to do with them & by picking on his kids they have made a big mistake . . . The second of six episodes Jekyll is a 55 minute per part mini-series that has a storyline which progresses through the six episodes so if you haven't seen the first then don't bother with this . The script by Stepehn Moffat is a modern updating of the Dr . Jekyll and Mr . Hyde story set in a modern London , there's no green potions that people drink & there isn't even a character called Jekyll in it . Like part 1 this is an OK time waster , a lot of it is set in a zoo where Jackman as Hyde kills a lion with his bare hands , yeah right . It moves along at a nice enough pace , it's not boring , the story is intriguing enough to retain ones interest , there are a few new twists in the story revealed here & there's a surprise climax here that you may or may not guess depending on how many of these types of things you've seen before . Not a bad effort at all & it's grown on me a bit since part 1 , I reckon I'll definitely check the other four episodes out . Being made-for-British TV this probably didn't have the biggest budget in the world but it looks nice enough & there's a few stylish scenes here & there . Again there's not much horror here & it plays more like a thriller than anything else although there is a decent sequence when he scares the hell out of someone trapped in a flat with no lights . There's a dead lion , there's some blood & Hyde messes some guy up badly & delivers him to hospital in a bag ! The production values are good & it's well made . Again like part 1 Michelle Ryan is seriously hot & it's almost worth watching just for her cute little bod ! Jekyll # 1 . 2 is a perfectly acceptable way to pass just under an hour , it's nothing outstandingly brilliant but it's worth a watch just don't expect a faithful telling of the Dr . Jekyll and Mr . Hyde story because this ain't it .
OK two part horror film based on Edgar Allen Poe stories .	Due Occhi Diabolici , or Two Evil Eyes as it's more commonly known to English speaking audiences , starts with a brief tribute to Edgar Allen Poe & then it's into the George A . Romero written & directed short-ish story entitled ' The Facts in the Case of Mr . Valdemar ' . Rich businessman Ernest Valdemar ( Bingo O'Malley ) is dying , his wife Jessica ( Adrienne Barbeau ) wants all of his money so together with her ex-boyfriend Dr . Robert Hoffman ( Ramy Zada ) she devises a plan to hypnotise Ernest into signing over his entire estate to her . However Ernest dies unexpectedly while hypnotised which somehow keeps his consciousness somewhere between the dead & the living world . But there is something else in the world beyond ours that intend to use Ernest & his body for their own sinister purposes . . . Next up it's the Dario Argento co-written ( along with Franco Ferrini ) & directed story ' The Black Cat ' . Rod Usher ( Harvey Keitel ) works as a photographer who discovers one day that his girlfriend Annabel ( Madeleine Potter ) has taken in a stray black cat . This mysterious cat seems to dislike Rod & his relationship with Annabel starts to break down , whatever Rod does he can't seem to escape the cat which eventually drives him to murder . . . Before I say anything about Due Occhi Disbolici I have to comment on the IMDb's main page , why is it listed as both horror & comedy ? There is no comedy or humour in this whatsoever , or if there is it's so subtle I couldn't notice it . Anyway , this American Italian co-production is an OK horror film based on two short stories by Edgar Allen Poe with each segment running at just under an hour apiece . This is part of the problem I have with Due Occhi Diabolici as I feel the stories are a little too long & drawn out . I prefer my anthology film to have maybe three or four stories that run at the 20 odd minute mark like Asylum ( 1972 ) , The Vault of Horror ( 1973 ) , Creepshow ( 1982 ) & Tales from the Darkside : The Movie ( 1990 ) . Unfortunately I think the stories are basic & don't justify their almost feature length status , both Romero & Argento seem to stretch their thin material out way beyond it's usefulness . I much prefer Romero's story ' The Facts in the Case of Mr . Valdemar ' to Argento's ' The Black Cat ' , it has a better twist ending & is more of a straight horror tale that actually makes sense as far as something like this can . ' The Blcak Cat ' on the other hand is a bit of a mess with no focused story as far as I could tell , the origins or motives of the cat itself is never explained & as a whole this story felt very unsatisfying & muddled . With a budget of about $9 , 000 , 000 Due Occhi Diabolici looks nice enough but for the most part a little bland & forgettable which you wouldn't usually expect to say about anything involving Argento . While he sporadically shows his flair for camera movements & cool angles like some cat point-of - view shots , a shot where the camera is placed on a swinging pendulum as it passes through a severed body & his camera following a set of keys as they fall to the floor I felt that ' The Black Cat ' lacked his trademark visual style & imagination . There are some decent gore scenes & the special make-up effects by Tom Savini are pretty good , some blood splattered gunshot wounds , an impalement , flesh eating kittens , someone gorily killed with a meat cleaver , a body cut in half & one without any teeth & a couple of rotting zombies . The acting is solid from a good cast made up of familiar faces including Tom Atkins & E . G . Marshall with Harvey Keitel standing out as being class . I thought that Due Occhi Diabolici was a decent way to pass a couple of hours & was entertaining enough but I don't think I'd be in any hurry to watch it again . I personally think that both Romero & Argento have made much better films than this but at the same time they have made much worse . Definitely worth a watch especially for Romero's story but nothing spectacular .
" All this for a fcking tooth . " I quite liked it actually . . .	Darkness Falls starts in the small town of Darkness Falls where a young Kyle Walsh ( Joshua Anderson ) has lost a tooth , normally this wouldn't be a problem but the town of Darkness Falls has a sinister legend which tells of an old woman named Matilda Dixon who gave children a gold coin for their baby teeth but was also wrongly hanged for the murder of two children which is why she put a curse on the town . Kyle lies in his bed & Matilda returns from the grave as an evil ghost who takes teeth just as she did in life but this time she also kills anyone who looks at her & unfortunately for Kyle he looks at her , Matilda's only weakness is that light hurts her so Kyle just heads for the bathroom & turns the light on until morning . . . Cut to ' 12 Years Later ' & one of Kyle's childhood friends Caitlin Greene ( Emma Caulfield ) phones him because her brother Michael ( Lee Cormie ) is suffering from what he did & won't turn the lights off or sleep , Kyle heads back to Darkness Falls to try & help Michael whom Matilda is now also after . . . This American Australian co-production was directed by Jonathan Liebesman & despite all the negative things I've read & heard about it I actually quite liked it , I mean I ain't trying to say it's a masterpiece , far from it , but as mindless undemanding entertainment I can think of a lot worse . The script by John Fasano , James Vanderbilt & Joe Harris moves along like a rocket ( according tot he IMDb's ' Trivia ' section the closing credits run for 11 minutes as otherwise the film would've been too short ) & I thought it was a fun concept , it's hardly the most compelling , engaging or complex story ever but sometimes I just want to sit back & be entertained , nothing more nothing less & Darkness Falls got the job done . The character's are basic but it helps that the cast is mostly adult & there aren't any annoying teenagers , the dialogue is basic & virtually nothing about Matilda's ghost is explained to any degree of satisfaction , why she can't go anywhere near light or what sort of limitations she has but hey , nothings perfect . Darkness Falls is far from the most intellectual film you will ever see but I liked it & frankly that's all that matters to me . What can I say , I'm a trend-setter rather than a follower . . . Director Liebesman does a pretty good job & the final quarter of the film builds a fair bit of excitement & tension as well as sustaining it although all the failing lights & coincidences do stretch things a bit , still it's only a film . On a slightly more disturbing note Michael the young lad self harms , I bring this up because I have also cut my own arms & wrists with a razor blade intending to hurt myself ( which I did obviously & I still have the scars to prove it ! ) & I guess the couple of scenes where this happens brought back some bad memories & not many films feature or deal with this although having said that Darkness Falls doesn't go into it or has anything relevant to say about it . The violence & gore is restrained & it was obvious this was aimed at a very young audience , there are a few scares but there is no graphic violence or gore . With a modest budget of about $11 , 000 , 000 Darkness Falls is well made with nice production values & impressive special effects . The acting was alright but no-one's going to win any Oscars for it . I rather liked Darkness Falls , maybe more than I should have . I think it's a good little horror that works well , has some nicely effective sequences & doesn't outstay it's welcome . I personally think it's well worth a watch . Looking at the credits list for Darkness Falls on the IMDb I notice that the ' Original Music by ' has a Paul Andrews credit , well that's my name , just look at the top of this comment next to ' Author ' ! If your interested no I'm a different Paul Andrews . . .
" We put the fun back into funeral . " Surprisingly amusing spoof horror .	Transylvania Twist starts as Dexter Ward ( Steve Altman ) attends his uncle Ephram's ( Jay Robinson ) funeral , however mid ceremony Ephram jumps out of his coffin as good as new . Ephram confides in Dexter that he is the librarian to the world's biggest collection of books on the supernatural & the occult , he also says that someone named Marinas Orlock ( Howard Morris ) borrowed the ' Book of Ulthar ' & never returned it . Ephram is worried as this book has the power to open doorways to other dimensions & let evil invade Earth , he ask's Dexter to visit Marinas's daughter Marissa ( Teri Copley ) & try to discover the whereabouts of the book & return it before it falls into evil hands . Before long Dexter has contacted Marissa who has , by coincidence , received a telegram from Victor Von Helsing ( Ace Mask ( ! ? ) ) informing her that her Father is dead & she needs to travel to Transylvania to claim her inheritance . Marissa & Dexter travel to a foreboding castle where they are greeted by Marissa's sinister uncle Lord Byron ( Robert Vaughn ) who seems very keen himself to get his hands on the Book of Ulthar . . . Directed by Jim Wynorski ( whose very name sends shivers down my spine when I hear it in connection with a film I'm about to watch ) before he started to hide under his usual ' Jay Andrews ' pseudonym Transylvania Twist is definitely one of his better efforts & is in it's own silly way a decent film . The script by R . J . Robertson obviously doesn't take itself seriously & is a sort of Naked Gun style spoof of the horror genre . The gags & one-liners come thick & fast & to be fair to everyone involved a lot of it is actually quite amusing , I don't think there are many ( if any ) scenes which will have you rolling around on the floor in stitches but I must admit a fair amount of the film brought a smile to my face . It's a fun homage that doesn't try to be offencive like the Scary Movie films , it relies on visual gags & silliness but in a more playful vein . A lot of the films works , a TV advertisement in which a coffin salesman cracks lots of cheesy jokes for instance or the scene set in the local Transylvanian pub where everyone is called Hans , much hilarity ensues with puns & misunderstandings like ' Hans Up ' , ' Hans Down ' & ' Hans Full ' , I know it's bad but it raised a chuckle & it's not that bad . The story itself is inconsequential & secondary to the comedy , there really isn't anything to it . Stick around until after the cast credits have gone at the end as you'll find out what happened to the angry village mob . Director Wynorski made this back in ' 90 when he actually cared & wasn't ashamed to use his own name on the credits , these days the guys a hack who churns out low budget crap of the worst kind & steals huge chunks of footage from other films ( he only steals a few minutes here ) & edits it into his own . The film is very well made & has a great atmosphere to it , the sets are actually pretty impressive . Loads of horror films are parodied , paid homage to & taken the mickey out of , The Exorcist ( 1973 ) complete with green puke , Night of the Living Dead ( 1968 ) , Dracula ( 1931 ) , a Phantasm ( 1979 ) spoof which features Angus Scrimm ( who starred in the Phantasm films ) throwing his silver ball at our heroes who run off screen for a second only to come back on wearing baseball gear & have a quick game of baseball with the deadly sphere narrated by Stu Nahan ( is he a big commentator in the Staes ? ) , it has cameos from the likes of Leatherface , Jason Voorhees , Freddy Krueger , Pinhead & it even features the cucumber alien monster from Roger Corman's ( who was executive producer here ) sci-fi film It Conquered the World ( 1956 ) . Too many here to mention individually though & I'm sure many horror fans could have some fun recognising them all . Technically the film is pretty good , in fact it's rather impressive with nice production values throughout . The acting was OK & they even manage to include Boris Karloff as some footage of him is edited into a conversation with Dexter . Transylvania Twist is a surprisingly likable & amusing horror spoof , I doubt anyone would want to see it more than once & I also think to get the most out of the homages , references & the film as a whole you should have at least some sort of interest in the horror genre . Much better than expected & worth a watch .
OK jungle adventure film .	While in Thailand , British photojournalist John Bradley ( Ivan Rassimov ) accidentally stabs a man in a bar fight . He hires a guide named Tuan to take him up river and escape the local authorities . First by train then motorbike they reach the river and set off in a small boat . The next day when Bradley wakes up from an afternoon nap he finds his guide floating in the river dead , with a poison dart in his neck . He is captured by a native tribe , they see him as some sort of fish because of the wetsuit and flippers he is wearing . He is strung up in a net . They make him work . Non of the natives except an old lady ( Pratitsak Singhara ) speaks English , whom he befriends . After trying to escape and failing he decides to try and integrate with the village . He is gradually accepted . He falls in love with a local girl named Maraya ( Me Me Lai ) and marries her . She becomes pregnant but also develops a sickness , his only solution is to defy the tribe and get Maraya to a hospital . Things get even worse when a tribe of cannibals attack the village , will Bradley be able to save both Mayara and the village ? Directed by Umberto Lenzi this is the film that is credited with starting the Italian cannibal film genre . Actually there is only one scene of cannibalism in the entire film , and that takes over an hour before it happens . One thing Deep River Savages might have started is the trend to show real animal cruelty in these types of films . This is not a film for animal lovers as a crocodile is sliced up , a mongoose and snake fight each other , there's a cockfight , cutting a snake open and bleeding it alive , a goat has it's throat slashed and a monkey has the top of it's head cut off with a sword and it's brains are eaten . These scenes are unnecessary and would probably upset or offend certain viewers . There isn't much sex or nudity and only one cannibal sequence so the film relies heavily on these scenes of animal mutilation for it's shock value , don't say I didn't warn you . A special mention goes to the colourful , clean , crisp and clear widescreen photography , it really captures the authentic Thai locations well , I think it's a surprisingly handsome looking film . The script by Francesco Barilli and Massimo D'Avak is rather slow and focuses on the drama aspect of the story , rather than the exploitation possibilities of it . It becomes rather dull and slow after the forty minute mark . The moral of the story is rammed down our throats constantly , that a once ' civilized ' man can get back to nature , become a primitive and ignore all the things we take for granted in a modern society and still be happy . An OK time filler just don't expect a standard cannibal or horror film . Just about worth an hour and a half of your time .
Wonderful monsters & dinosaurs , don't bother with the rest of the film though .	One Million Years B . C . starts with the very creation of Earth with lots of stock footage of volcano's & flowing lava . Then we are introduced to Akhoba ( Robert Brown ) the leader of the primitive ' Rock Tribe ' & his two sons Tumak ( John Richardson ) & Sakana ( Percy Herbert ) whom hate each other . After a fight over some meat Tumak is banished front he tribe & wanders off to fend for himself . After some close encounters with the local prehistoric wildlife Tumak stumbles upon the Shell Tribe whom live near the coast . The Shell Tribe are far more advanced than the Rock Tribe & Tumak is particularly impressed with a blonde bird named Loana ( Raquel Welch ) who also takes a shine to him after he single handedly kills a Carnosaur , however the Shell people don't like violence & Tumak's brutality so they drive him away . Since Loana still has the hots for him she goes as well . Tumak takes a spear along with him , a weapon not know to the primitive Rock Tribe , with which he plans to kill his Brother Sakana & take control of the Tribe for himself since their Father Akhoba was murdered by Sakana earlier in the film . But the journey is a perilous one dodging dinosaurs & various other dangers . . . Directed by Don Chaffey One Million Years B . C . was British studio Hammer's 100th production . Probably more well known for their Dracula & Frankenstein series of films I didn't think that much of this . The script by producer Michael Carreras features no recognisable dialogue whatsoever which is probably historically accurate ( about the only thing that is ) but doesn't make for a good film , in fact it makes for an incredibly dull film . Imagne sitting through an entire 90 plus minute film with no dialogue at all , no characters other than the basic grunts , groans & psychical look of cavemen . I also found it difficult to tell who was who , most of the men have long hair , beards & the same animal skin rags that pass for clothing & look virtually identical . I never cared for anyone & I just wasn't interested in what was happening on screen to these faceless & nameless cavemen who have given me absolutely no reason whatsoever for me to like or care for them . The only reason to watch One Million Years B . C . are the excellent stop-motion special effects by Ray Harryhausen which are a joy to watch in this modern world of soulless CGI , sure they look more realistic but have no personality . The effects are well photographed & they interact with the on screen actors as well as one could hope . From the fantastic giant turtle & flying Pterodactyls to the wonderfully animated & detailed fight between a T-Rex & Triceratops . If you are a fan of this sort of special effect or Harryhausen's work then One Million Years B . C . is an absolute must see , it's just a shame the rest of the film didn't entertain as much as the monsters . Technically the film is OK , the Spanish volcanic locations look authentic enough & it's generally well put together . The acting isn't really applicable here as no one says anything other than some basic grunts , annoyingly the entire film is like this . Remove Harryhausen's wonderful monsters & I thought One Million Years B . C . was a poor , dull & boring film about a couple of prehistoric tribes . I will give the film 1 star & the monster effects 5 which adds up to 6 , worth watching for the monsters but nothing else .
Didn't do much for me , not bad but not great .	Southern Comfort is set during 1978 & starts in a Louisiana swamp where a platoon of National Guards soldiers set out on a routine training mission across 38km of swamp . En route they find some canoes belonging to local Cajuns trappers & decide to take them to cross a river , while paddling across the Cajuns appear on the river bank & a soldier named Stuckey ( Lewis Smith ) opens fire on them . Although Stuckey was using blanks the Cajuns don't like having their canoes stolen & then being fired upon so return the fire with real bullets & the platoon's senior leader Sergeant Poole ( Peter Coyote ) is killed , the remaining men make it ashore but the platoon's radio , compass & map are lost in the river . Stuck in the middle of nowhere miles from civilisation the platoon must find a way to survive as the Cajun trappers hunt & kill them one-by-one . . . This American , British & Swiss co-production was co-written & directed by Walter Hill & is considered by many to be a classic , to be brutally honest after having watched it a few hours ago I can't really see why anyone would be of that opinion . The script by Hill , Michael Kane & David Giler takes itself very seriously & if you strip it down to the bare bones it's nothing more than a backwoods brutality flick like The Texas Chainsaw Massacre ( 1974 ) , The Hills Have Eyes ( 1977 ) & it's resemblance to Devilerance ( 1972 ) in particular is also striking & very obvious . These films usually portray a bunch of civilised city slickers against some backwoods minority who are usually seen as vicious psychopathic killers . Here in Southern Comfort those rules are generally followed but I felt the script was far too slow & ponderous , the film seems to focus on the mental state of the platoon & how they deal with the situation they find themselves in , I'm not sure about anyone else but I just felt there were far too many dull shots of soldiers walking through the swamp arguing . It's just not something that I find particularly entertaining , the Cajun killers are not seen until the very end & are kept very much in the background , in fact you can count on one hand the number of times they are seen during the opening 80 odd minutes . The obvious & none too subtle allegories to the Vietnam war are predictably present , the fact American soldiers are in a place where they don't belong , the fact they act like animals & antagonise the locals , the language barrier not helping the situation , inexperienced soldiers behaviour making things worse , pointless loss of life on both sides & the fact America started all the trouble by being there in the first place . Don't get me wrong I thought it was alright , the character's were well written & the story is good but overall I just felt it was a bit slow going . Director Hill does a good job , the Louisiana swamp location works very well & adds a great deal of foreboding atmosphere but after a straight 80 odd minutes of soldiers walking through what looks like exactly the same part of the Louisiana swamp it does tend to get a little repetitive . The traps set up by the Cajuns are a little silly , the bit when they try to crush the soldiers using falling trees would have been impossible to realise in real life . I mean they go to a lot of trouble , why not just shoot the soldiers & be done with it ? Also I wasn't happy about the initial shooting , out of all the soldiers on the canoes the Cajun only fired one bullet which just happened to kill the Sergeant who just happened to have the map & compass which then became conveniently lost in the river . There's not much violence or gore , there's a gory shoot to the head & a few other bloody bullet impact wounds , someone is impaled on some spikes & that's about it . However for the animal lovers out there I should probably point out that two pigs are seen being shot in the head at point blank range , there's a close-up of one having it's stomach sliced open with lots of blood gushing out & further shots of one hung upside down being skinned & gutted . Technically the film is fine , it's well made with that Hollywood polish about it . Filmed on location in Louisiana & Caddo Lake in Texas . I have to mention the music here , the Cajun banjo type musical number at the end is absolutely horrible & my ears are still bleeding . There's a good cast here including Powers Boothe , Fred Ward , Brion James who plays a one armed Cajun ( not sure about the accent or bushy beard though ) & Keith Carradine who is an absolute dead ringer for his half-brother David in this . Southern Comfort was a disappoint to me , I had expected & hoped for more . It's not really an action film , it's not really a horror film , it's definitely not a war film & whether it classifies as drama is also up for debate . I couldn't really tell what it was trying to be & in the end was an unsatisfactory mixture of genres , worth a watch but nothing great . Not to be confused with the more recent Southern Comfort ( 2001 ) which appears to be a documentary of some sort .
" Sex . . . that's all you lesbians think about isn't it ? " More sleazy exploitation form Jesus Franco .	Sadomania starts with newly weds Michel ( Angel Caballero ) & Olga Gordon ( Uta Koepke ) taking a little detour on the way to their honeymoon & ending up in the middle of a place called ' Hacienda Blanca ' which just happens to be a rehabilitation camp for delinquent women , Franco's description not mine . . . It quickly turns out that they are trespassing on private land , they are quickly arrested by topless gun-wielding female guards & taken to the camps sadistic warden , Magda Urtado ( Ajita Wilson , a transsexual & porn star born Goerge Wilson ) . Michel is told to bugger off & never come back while his unfortunate bride Olga is taken prisoner & after having her top removed is thrown in the cells where she meets some of the other topless inmates & the topless guards . Poor Olga is made to work in the blazing sun , topless of course , & Olga quickly discovers that ' Hacienda Blanca ' is a hell hole where the inmates have no rights , the officials are corrupt & everyone is constantly topless ! Governor Mendoza ( Antonio Mayans as Robert Foster ) shows up & picks a woman for a hunt , a hunt in which an inmate is given a one minute ( one minute ? Thanks for nothing ! ) head-start before she is shot , sounds fair to me . Governor Mendoza is impotent & his wife Loba ( Gina Janssen ) isn't too happy about it so she has lesbian sex with inmates like Tara ( Ursula Buchfellner ) whom she then sells to Mario ( Otto Retzer ) who in turn sells her to Lucas ( director Jesus Franco ) who forces Tara to work in his brothel . Inmates like Conito ( Andrea Guzon ) are forced to fight to the death in gladiatorial combat with the guards , topless of course , & if they survive these tortures the Governor's pet Alsatian dog is ready for some loving . . . This Spanish West German co-production was co-written & directed by notorious Euro sleaze peddler Jesus Franco & considering I usually loathe Franco & his films I found Sadomania somewhat entertaining . The script by Franco & Gunter Ebert certainly isn't boring like most of Franco's sorry attempts at film-making , in fact it moves along at a nice pace & something is always happening to keep most Euro exploitation fans happy . There are hunts which end in the target being shot & then eaten by crocodiles , gladiatorial combat between topless women , an Alsatian dog rapes a tied up woman , lesbian sex , someone has a pin stuck in their nipple , women are beaten , groped , raped , humiliated & generally treated like dirt which is where my biggest problem with Sadomania lies . I simply dislike the overall tone & feel of Sadomania , my best friend at the moment is a 23 year old girl & I simply take no pleasure in seeing females treated like they have no feelings , treated like they are only on Earth to sexually please & nothing else & I found it a little hard as a male to enjoy all this depravity . Yes , I know it's only a film & as a film I liked it & even though it's a little longish at over 100 minutes it passed the time painlessly enough . There is no real story in Sadomania just a collection of incidents which lead up to the eventual prison break & rather abrupt ending . Characters just come & go , Sadomania never really focuses on any particular one , it dishes the nastiness out evenly ! If it's nudity your after then Sadomania is a dream come true , I don't think I've ever seen another film with so much nudity in it , just about every sequence has nudity of some sort . The violence is far more restrained with a few whippings , a few fights , a needle piercing a nipple & a few gunshot wounds but none of these are what I would call particularly graphic . The acting is as good as one would expect , transsexual Ajita has a real screen presence & is pretty intimidating as the obligatory sadistic warden . Technically Sadomania is cheap , very cheap . Shot on location the cinematography is OK & there is a nice scene when two women have a fight against a purple blueish setting sun in silhouette . Overall I disliked the tone & derogatory attitude towards women but at the same time I found myself enjoying Sadomania for what it was . I'm in two minds about it , I've given it an above average 6 because when all said & done I'd probably watch it again . Also , I bet Franco saved a fortune on the costumes . . .
" What ya gonna do ? Preach me to death ? " Not as good as the first two . . .	Children of the Corn III starts in the small American farming town of Gatlin where Joshua ( Ron Melendez ) runs from his drunk & abusive Father , Joshua runs into his younger adopted Brother Eli ( Daniel Cerny ) who promptly turns his stepfather in a scarecrow with a little help from a field of corn & ' he who walks behind the rows ' . . . With their Father suddenly disappearing Joshua & Eli are sent to the big city of Chicago & placed with foster parents William ( Jim Metzler ) & his wife Amanda Porter ( Nancy Grahn ) . While Joshua seems like a nice lad Eli is a bit of a freak , he won't change his old fashioned clothes , his suitcase is full of corn & at school he begins to brainwash his fellow pupils into joining his religious cult who worship ' he he walks behind the rows ' , as there aren't many corn fields in Chicago Eli grows one in an abandoned factory near his home . However Eli isn't growing any old corn , no he is growing super strong corn & super tasty corn but this corn comes at a price as once you eat it your body magically fills with cockroaches who then exit through your mouth . Eli convinces William to use his contacts at work & sell the corn worldwide & thus commencing his evil plan for world destruction ! Directed by James D . R . Hickox this is the third entry in the Children of the Corn series of films that now numbers seven including this , out of those seven films I have personally seen the first three & I thought Children of the Corn III was inferior to the previous two instalments . The script by Dode B . Levenson is based on the story by Stephen King but I would imagine in name only . In my opinion the big mistake it makes is transferring the basic plot of the first two films & sticking it in a modern urban setting , in the small community of Gatlin the premise worked , was effective & plausible in context . However shifting the action to Chicago things seem out of place , I can't for the life of me see a freaky kid like Eli being able to convince what seems like the entire high school into joining him & his cult , I mean these are guys with serious attitudes who would hit you as soon as look at you or pull a butterfly knife out on you if you even looked at them in the wrong way . I found it all rather difficult to swallow & then there's magical corn this time that kills you if you eat it , fireball fights , killings , there's even more confused religious nonsense & a book that seems nothing more than a convenient way to end the film . It's a bit of a mess although having said that it's fairly watchable if you like the horror genre , it moves along at a fair pace , is never too boring & it has a few nice deaths especially towards the end when it picks up for a action & special effect packed climax . Director Hickox does an OK job , there's a few decent scenes here & some gore , various corn related deaths occur as the corn leaves come to life & rip people's heads off , poke their eyes out & generally mistreat them , someone falls over & is impaled on a pipe , various people spew up cockroaches , someone has their face burnt off & there's a massacre at the end with some gory deaths by scythe & more corn leaves . Technically Children of the Corn III is pretty sound , it's competent & generally well made except for the variable special effects & in particular the absolutely awful looking monster at the end which is one of the worst I've seen in a long time & brings back memories of terrible rubber monsters from the 50's & 60's as this one really doesn't look any better . Some of the optical effects are also best described as poor . The acting isn't up to much to be honest , apparently this was Hollywood superstar Charlize Theron's first film appearance in an uncredited role which must have been small , I don't think she boasts about it . Children of the Corn III didn't really work for me , it's watchable , has some decent horror scenes but at the end of the day placing the action in Chicago was a mistake . At the time of my writing this comment Children of the Corn III is languishing on the IMDb's bottom 100 films list , while those who have a fondness for horror may like it & tolerate it's shortcomings other's should note it's on that list for a reason .
" If he were a straight guy I wouldn't be worried . " So bad it's decent .	The Dunwich Horror starts as a strange fellow named Wilbur Whateley ( Dean Stockwell ) ask's college professor Dr . Henry Armatige ( Ed Begley ) whether he can borrow the magical book of the Necronomicon , Armitage refuses . Whateley's sinister attention then turns to college student Nancy Wagner ( Sandra Dee ) who offer's Whateley a lift home to the small town of Dunwich after it turns out he missed the last bus , it turns out to be a less than inspired decision as Whateley ' fixes ' her car so she can't go anywhere & convinces her to stay for the weekend . Dr . Armitage & Nancy's friend Elizabeth ( Donna Baccala ) become worried when she doesn't return & set out to look for her , Elizabeth has the unfortunate luck to find the ' thing ' which lurks in the attic in Whateley's house while after some investigation Armitage discovers that Whateley is in fact trying to resurrect an ancient race of evil beings from another dimension & he plans to use Nancy as the virgin sacrifice . . . Directed by Daniel Haller The Dunwich Horror is far from the best film out there but if your in the right mood & have a certain aptitude for this sort of over-the-top badly dated horror film from the 70's then you might just like it . The script by Curtis Hanson , Henry Rosenbaum & Roland Silkosky was based on the short 27 page story by H . P . Lovecraft & you can tell because this film is pretty stretched out , to be fair not that much actually happens apart from Whateley kidnapping Nancy & her friends come looking for her before the sinister truth is revealed which is pretty obvious to begin with . Hving said that The Dunwich Horror is full of bizarre scenes which make it watchable on a ' what the hell ? ' sort of level . There's Whateley's weird Grandfather who carries what resembles a large lollipop around with him , the scenes when the thing from the attic attacks & the whole screen flashes red & everyone just sort of falls over or the bits in the insane asylum which are funny & then there's the bit when Nancy is enquiring about her friend Elizabeth whose car is outside & who has met the thing from the attic but within the space of a half a scene Nancy suddenly loses all interest in her so-called best friend who is missing . It doesn't have a great pace to it , it's not particularly exciting , it takes itself far too seriously & it lacks exploitation elements but I thought it was an entertaining laugh all the same . Director Haller adds much unintentional hilarity to the proceedings , the way people talk , behave , the set-ups , the story & the film is terribly dated which adds a certain charm to it . The opening credits are amazing & worth watching on their own , I doubt there's many like them around . There's nothing one would describe as being scary & there's no blood or gore either . Technically The Dunwich Horror is OK , it looks like a 70's detective show with some very garish colours & embarrassing fashions . I have to say though that I really rather liked the music . The acting is either terrible if it was unintentional but an absolute brilliant masterstroke if it was deliberate . The Dunwich Horror is a entertaining way to pass 90 odd minutes for all the wrong reasons , for those who like their films pretty out there . Remade as Dunwich ( 2006 ) .
More gore drenched zombie shenanigans from Lucio Fulci .	A teenage girl ( Daniela Doria ) and her boyfriend Steve ( Ranieri Ferrara ) have just finished having sex in the supposedly abandoned ' Oak Mansion ' , a large house next to a cemetery . They are both brutally and gorily murdered . After this pre-credit sequence and the actual credits themselves an on screen caption informs us the film has switched to New York , and specifically ' The New York Historical Society ' . Dr . Norman Boyle ( Paolo Malco ) is discussing one of his colleagues research with his boss Professor Muller ( the usual cameo from director Lucio Fulci ) . It seems a Dr . Eric Peterson recently killed his mistress and hanged himself in a small town called New Whitby in Boston while conducting some research for a book he was writing . Boyle was Peterson's protégé , and they were the best of friends . Boyle wants to carry on Peterson's research and clear up his suicide . Together with his wife Lucy ( Catriona MacColl as Katherine MacColl ) and their young son Bob ( Giovanni Frezza ) they leave his Manhattan apartment and drive to New Whitby . Once there they visit the estate agents , Laura Gittleson ( Dagmar Lassander ) leases ' Oak Mansion ' to them , the house Peterson was staying in just prior to his suicide . Once there and settled in they hire a babysitter named Ann ( Ania Pieroni ) who turns out to be a bit of a weirdo . While at the library going through Peterson's notes Norman comes across a file about a Dr . Jacob Allan Freudstein ( Giovanni De Nava ) who in 1879 was suspended from the medical profession and banned from practising medicine for life . It appears that Dr . Freudstein was a turn of the century surgeon who had a pension for conducting illegal experiments and seems to still be alive in the cellar of ' Oak Mansion ' killing anyone unfortunate enough to venture inside so he can use their bodies to renew his own cells . Will Norman be able to save Lucy and Bob before it's too late and put an end to Dr . Fruedsteins murderous ways ? Co-written and directed by Lucio Fulci , this was the fourth and final film in his zombie quartet that began with Zombi 2 ( 1979 ) , then came City of the Living Dead ( 1980 ) , and The Beyond ( 1981 ) before being concluded with this , The House by the Cemetery ( 1981 ) . I thought this was a decent enough horror film . The main problem with this film is the confused and somewhat unfocused script by Fulci , Giorgio Mariuzzo and Dardando Sacchetti . First it takes a while to get going , the sub-plot involving a young red headed girl named Mae ( Silvia Collatina ) who may or may not be a ghost is confusing as it's never really explained properly . Dr . Freudstein is given nothing to do except kill people and MacColl's character Lucy is woefully underdeveloped , there's not a whole lot of point her being in the film as she is given virtually nothing to do . The strange behaviour by the babysitter Ann is never explained either , why when asked a question by her boss Lucy does she not say a single word and act so coldly towards her ? Why does she try and break into the cellar ? Why does she clean all the blood up off the floor from one of Freudstein's victims ? It just doesn't make a whole lot of sense . And don't get me started on the ending which is simply terrible , it leaves everything ' up in the air ' as nothing is concluded satisfactorily . Bob the young boy is extremely annoying with his stupid voice and long blonde girly hair plus he can't act either , everyone else does a reasonable job with their characters . I've seen worse acting . The film has pretty good production values and the widescreen photography by Sergio Salvati is quite nice to look at . The thing this film really excels at is the gore and violence , the blood soaked special make up effects by Giannetto De Rossi and Maurizio Trani are impressively over the top . Rotting zombies , torn out throats , decapitations , slit throats , poker impaling , knives through heads plus various cut up bodies and severed limbs all lovingly filmed in lingering close up by Fulci , the last 40 odd blood drenched minutes are a gore-hounds wet dream ! Overall if your looking for gore this is a film you have to see , but the slightly confused plot and slow first half stop this from being a true classic . Good but not brilliant , it's at least worth a watch for horror / gore fans .
" In Haiti there are secrets we keep even from ourselves . " OK but a bit muddled .	The Serpent and the Rainbow starts in ' Haiti 1978 ' where a local named Christophe Duran ( Conrad Roberts ) is pronounced dead & is buried . . . Jump to the ' Amazon Basin 1985 ' where anthropologist Dennis Alan ( Bill Pullman ) is on a botanical expedition when a tribal Shaman ( Evencio Mosquera Slaco ) gives him some sort of potion to drink which gives Dennis strange hallucinations , once it's worn off he wants to leave but his helicopter pilot Julio ( Jaime Pina Gautier ) has been killed . Dennis manages to walk ( ! ) back to civilisation . Now jump to ' Boston ' where his friend Earl Schoonbacher ( Michael Gough ) introduces Dennis to Andrew Cassedy ( Paul Guilfoyle ) the head of ' Biocorp ' a large pharmaceutical company who shows Dennis the death certificate of Christophe dated 1978 & then shows him a picture of Christophe taken recently , he ask's Dennis to go to Haiti & discover the secret of Voodoo rituals that can turn people into zombies . Once there Dennis meets Dr . Marielle Duchamp ( Cathy Tyson ) who supplied the initial information about Christophe , as Dennis investigates the claims of zombification & gets closer to discovering the truth he attracts the unwanted attention of the head of the Haiti secret police Dargent Peytraud ( Zakes Mokae ) a man you most definitely don't want to mess with . . . Directed by Wes Craven I thought The Serpent and the Rainbow ( great title for a horror film although I have no idea what it means or refers to ) was an OK film but ultimately lacking something . The script by Richard Maxwell & Adam Rodman is based on the novel by Wade Davis & tires hard but didn't quite work for me on a few levels . Firstly if Louis Mozart ( Brent Jennings ) knew how to create a drug which turned people into zombies why didn't he sell it before Dennis showed up since all he seems interested in is money ? Why would a huge pharmaceutical company send one lone man out to Haiti without any help to investigate a drug that could be worth millions & save thousands of lives ? Why did Peytraud need to create zombies ? To scare the locals ? I'd imagine him hammering metal spikes through peoples knobs would be far more effective a scare tactic than re-animating a corpse to just aimlessly walk around , it scares me just thinking about that scene ! What's with the opening in the Amazon ? I just don't get that bit or it's relevance & who killed his pilot ? The novel concerns re-animating the dead with a Voodoo potion & therefore has no central villain so Craven had to make one in the shape of Peytraud who feels like an afterthought & Craven couldn't resist the clichéd climactic fight between the villain & hero , has little motive to do what he does & why didn't he kill Dennis when he had the chance ? If he can possess that woman to kill Dennis why couldn't he just possess Dennis & make him commit suicide or something ? Having said all that the basic story is interesting , watchable , moves along at a nice pace , is something a bit different & is a decent way to spend 100 odd minutes if you don't think about it too much . Director Craven does a professional job , the Haitian location look great & make a nice change . He tries to say things about Haitian culture , Voodoo & Haiti's corrupt dictatorial & brutal secret police . That torture scene is harsh , does this sort of thing actually happen in Haiti ? He directs with style & there is a fantastically creepy & nasty moment when Dennis is buried alive with a huge spider & it crawls over his face as the dirt is shovel on his coffin only illuminated by a cross in the coffin lid . Most of the horror scenes take the form of dreams & hallucinations . There isn't much gore , a decapitated head , a dead pig , a cock fight , someone coughing up some blood , a few rotten zombies & that's about it . The torture scene messes with your head but it's not graphic . With a supposed budget of about $7 , 000 , 000 The Serpent and the Rainbow is well made with nice location shooting , good production values & has that Hollywood polish to it . The acting is pretty good although Tyson seems to have less & less to do as the film progresses except just stand in the background , Mokae makes for a good villain . The Serpent and the Rainbow is a decent horror film when all said & done but there were a few problems with the story that stops it from being brilliant . Definitely worth a watch & that torture scene really is harsh if your a bloke .
I didn't think I would but despite it's many faults I actually quite liked it for what it was !	The version I watched was a UK tape called Alien Terror . A couple named Thelma ( Belinda Mayne ) and Roy ( Mark Bodin ) are keen potholers and along with six of their friends , Bert ( Michele Soavi ) Maureen ( Judy Perrin , this is where the credit information on the IMDb stops and the film doesn't list the characters on the credits ) , Jill , Bill , Cliff and Rod are planning a weekend exploring some caves somewhere in the Californian wilderness . As they drive out of the city ( the closing credits mentions San Diego so maybe that's where these city shots were filmed ) the local T . V . and radio news shows report that a space capsule returning from space has crash landed in the Ocean and it's crew are missing . The potholers stop at a roadside café and Bert ( the idiot of the group ) takes a slash against a wall and notices a strange blue football sized rock , he picks it up and gives it to Thelma , oh and by the way Thelma is a psychic and she has a ' bad ' feeling . Once deep inside the cave they all have a good time until Jill and Thelma goes off on their own . Jill notices the blue thing in Thelma's rucksack is pulsating . Jill grabs it and has a closer look , it bursts open and something attach's itself to her face . Next thing we know Thelma is screaming for help , she explains to the others that Jill has fallen off a ledge and is lying hurt at the bottom . Everyone rushes to help her . Rod is left up top to operate the stretcher and crane to lift her up . Once Jill is up top her face splits open and a snake like alien thing emerges . Rod is taken by surprise and the alien attach's itself to his throat . Rod falls back and his feet get caught in some rope , as he hangs there over the edge the alien does something that makes his head fall off . The others below watching this are understandably shaken and even worse are trapped in the lower levels of the cave . They must use all their experience and know how to find a way out and survive the Alien Terror ! Written , produced and directed by Ciro Ippolito under the pseudonym Sam Cromwell , rumour has it Umberto Lenzi might have been involved too . I have to admit I actually quite liked it , it has it's faults for sure and it certainly isn't a masterpiece but for what it was I thought it was an hour and a half well spent . The script drags a little in places and some of the dialogue is as absurd as we've come to expect from these 80's Italian produced low-budget horror films , but that's half their charm and entertainment . The ending was strange and somewhat of a let-down , nothing is really explained or concluded properly and just sort of ends suddenly it also went on for too long and would have been better served a few minutes shorter , Thelma's apparent psychic powers are never really made use of except her ' feelings ' that she has . I liked the cave setting , I thought it was quite unusual and for the most part helped to create an atmosphere of isolation . The acting isn't up to much but then I didn't really expect it to be . There is some pretty good gore sequences in this too , Rods head oozing off and some of his insides following it down out of his neck stump is a definite highlight as is Jills face splitting open just prior , the special make-up effects are decent enough too . The aliens themselves are never really seen in their entirety , I felt there should be a big alien at the end ( we get an alien point-of-view camera shot that towers above Thelma ) but we never see ' it ' . Mostly they look like mutant snake things . A special mention goes to Guido De Angelis & Maurizio De Angelis who provide the music and hide under the wonderful pseudonym of Oliver Onions ! I don't really know why but this is one of those films that should be absolutely awful , and probably is to most people , but for some unexplainable reason I liked it . It's a film that for me has a indefinable ' X ' factor . Impossible to recommend to the casual viewer and it's probably quite difficult to track down , but there are much worse out there .
Not as good as Vol . 1 . . .	Kill Bill : Vol . 2 starts as vengeful assassin Beatrix Kiddo ( Uma Thurman ) head towards El Passo & Bill's brother Budd ( Michael Madsen ) to continue her roaring rampage of revenge . Things don't go her way though & she ends up buried alive , can she escape & finally get her long awaited revenge on her ex-boss Bill ( David Carradine ) who left her & her baby for dead ? Written & directed by Quentin Tarantino I'll say it straight away , Kill Bill : Vol . 2 is nowhere near as good as Kill Bill : Vol . 1 ( 2003 ) in my opinion . There , I said it & I firmly believe it to be the truth . In Kill Bill : Vol . 1 there was a definite energy , a zip , a breakneck pace that lead from one over-the-top set-piece to another . It had buckets of violence & blood while still maintaining that cool Tarantino vibe that was present in both Reservoir Dogs ( 1992 ) & Pulp Fiction ( 1994 ) which made them both iconic hits of the 90's . Here in Kill Bill : Vol . 2 the pace is sedate , the self consciously cool small talk dialogue just isn't as effective here with noting particularly exciting happening around it . Kill Bill : Vol . 2 just ends up feeling like a hollow mess with lots of irreverent dialogue which tries to be cool , I'm sorry but for me it didn't work & I frankly missed the violence , the gore & the character's of Kill Bill : Vol . 1 which I think I'm going to watch again to get the memory of Kill Bill : Vol . 2 out of my mind . There are still some nice scenes here & some mildly amusing dialogue along the way but as a whole I don't think it has what made Kill Bill : Vol . 1 so special , above average but below the standard I expected & hoped for . Director Tarantino knows how to turn in a stylish action flick , it's just a shame the action doesn't really start until an hour in . Since Tarantino is a bit of a fan-boy when it comes to martial arts & cult flicks in general there are loads of references to other films which you may or may no notice although I thought it was nice that the film mentions Shogun Assassin ( 1980 ) by name as the similarities are obvious & for those of you who don't know Shogun Assassin is a real film & it's an absolutely terrific film at that . Rumour has it Tarantino has a thing for feet & you can tell here because there are a lot of scenes involving people's feet including another scene of Thurman stepping on & crushing someones plucked out eyeball , foot fetishists will enjoy this . I didn't think all of the visual tricks worked in this & preferred the comic book feel of the original . The violence here is much tamer than Kill Bill : Vol . 1 , Vol 1 had over forty on screen death's while Vol . 2 has a paltry three of which Thurman only kills one , Elle ( Daryl Hannah ) kills Budd & Pai Mei ( Chia Hui Liu ) with Thurman killing Bill at the end . I know violence & action don't necessarily make a great film they sure as hell help ! With a supposed budget of about $30 , 000 , 000 Kill Bill : Vol . 2 is very well made with top notch production values , it definitely has that expensive Hollywood look to it , excellent cinematography & choreography . The acting is pretty good , Thurman makes for a sexy anti-hero & Carradine is a cool bad guy . Samuel L . Jackson gets about 30 seconds of screen time . Kill Bill : Vol . 2 is a definite disappointment after the excellent violent & bloody excess of Kill Bill : Vol . 1 , at over two hours it's too long & is a drawn out way to round the story off . Did this really get a 5 minute standing ovation from the audience it was premiered too ? If it did why ? If you have seen both Kill Bill films & want to watch one again watch the original .
Solid Hammer horror film .	When a burglar ( Harold Goodwin ) breaks into Dr . Baron Victor Frankenstein's ( Peter Cushing ) lab , and unexpectedly discovers Frankenstein's experiments and a severed head Frankenstein realizes he must leave all his work behind and leave for fear of being caught by the police . Frankenstein still hasn't quite perfected the art of human brain transplantation yet and was on his way to see Dr . Frederick Brandt ( George Pravda ) , who had somewhat more success than himself . However shortly before the two were due to meet Brandt went insane and was committed to an asylum . With the London constabulary headed up by Inspector Frisch ( Thorley Walters ) hot on his trail Frankenstein decides to stay at a guest house run by the rather fine looking Anna Spengler ( Veronica Carlson ) and her boyfriend Dr . Karl Holst ( Simon Ward ) who , luckily for Frankenstein , works at the mental asylum that holds Dr . Brandt . After overhearing a conversation in which Karl discusses with Anna stealing cocaine from the asylum where he works , Frankenstein uses this information to blackmail both , Karl to help him with his experiments and Anna to make the coffee , or so it seems anyway . Soon after with Karl's help Frankenstein has stolen all the equipment he needs to set another lab up in the basement of the guest house , and they kidnap Brandt from the asylum . Unfortunately Brandt suffers a fatal coronary , since Frankenstein only needs Brandt's brain , together with Karl he transplants it into another body , that of Professor Richter ( Freddie Jones ) . The transplant is an apparent success . However , Dr . Brandt's wife Ella ( Maxine Audley ) recognizes Frankenstein on a street corner and starts to ask questions . The police are also sniffing around . Frankenstein decides to disappear again , just as his creation is starting to regain consciousness . Can anyone finally put an end to Dr . Frankensteins ungodly experiments once and for all ? Directed by Terence Fisher this was the fifth installment in Hammers series of Frankenstein films , made between Frankenstein Created Woman ( 1967 ) and the Horror of Frankenstein ( 1970 ) . The script by Bert Batt portrays Cushing's Frankenstein as the real monster in this film . He rapes , murders , blackmails , lies and use anyone and everyone for his own ends . Frankenstein's monster is depicted as a scared pathetic creature with strong feelings and who wants revenge on Frankenstein for what he has done . The ending of the film is somewhat weak , and seems a bit rushed . Acting is strong from everyone involved , as you would expect . The production design is great , I love the Victorian feel of these Hammer films , the sets are lush , colourful and very detailed , fine work . There's very little blood or gore , just a severed head , a few stabbings , a brain in a fish tank , some mostly off screen surgical operations and a few splashes of blood here and there . While no explicit nudity is involved , the rape of Anna by Frankenstein is unsettling . Overall a good solid period Frankenstein from Hammer , you could do a lot worse .
" This thing is bulletproof ! " I actually though it was a decent watch .	Chupacabra Terror , or Chupacabra : Dark Seas as it's also known , starts as a cryptozoologist ( someone who searches for mythical creatures ) named Dr Pena ( Giancarlo Esposito ) & his bunch of hired South American mercenaries are on the hunt for a Latin American creature known as a Chupacabra , they set traps which capture the Chupacabra & Dr . Pena manages to bring it under control with a dose of special tranquiliser . The cruise ship the ' Venician Queen ' is about to set sail as Captain Randolp ( John Rhys-Davis ) introduces himself to U . S . Marshall Lance ( Dylan Neal ) who has been brought aboard to try & unmask a thief . Dr . Pena also boards at this point with a suspicious looking wooden crate , the crate goes into storage & the Venician Queen sets sail . Two of the ships crew become curious as to what is in the crate & decide to open it , which in retrospect turned out to be a bad idea as the vicious Chupacabra jumps out brutally kills them both . It's not long before the mutilated bodies are found & Captain Randolph alerted , he tries to recapture the creature but as the body count grows Randolph has no choice but to call in the Navy Seals headed up by Commander Link ( Matthew R . Anderson ) but will it be enough to prevent the Chupacabra from slaughtering the entire ship . . . ? Co-written & directed by John Shepphird I actually thought Chupacabra Terror was a fairly entertaining ' creature feature ' type film . The script by Shepphird & Steve Jankowski ( who has a small role in the film as Admiral Williams ) moves along at a fair pace & at least it knows what it is & doesn't really try to be anything else other than a slimy monster-on-the-loose sci-fi / horror film . The character's aren't great , neither is the dialogue but it helps when there aren't huge chunks of time wasting exposition & unnecessary character development to pad the running time out , thankfully Chupacabra Terror sticks to the monster killing people which in itself wasn't a bad decision on behalf of the filmmakers since they obviously knew they weren't making high drama or an Oscar worthy epic . Chupacabra Terror reminded me of Deep Rising ( 1998 ) which itself was basically Titanic ( 1997 ) crossed with Aliens ( 1986 ) & while Chupacabra Terror definitely doesn't have the scope , scale or excitement of those films it's not a bad watch & is better than a lot of these Sci-Fi Channel films that I've sat through , I will take this opportunity to remind you of the cinematic masterpiece that is Python ( 2000 ) , now look me in the eye & say Chupacabra Terror is a bad film . Director Shepphird does an OK job , it doesn't have much visual flair or style but it looks alright considering it's straight-to-video origins . I really liked the monster in this , sure it's just a guy in a rubber monster suit but I liked it & though it looked pretty good most of the time . Also I'm pretty sure throwing grenades around a ships engine room would cause more damage than is suggested . There is a fair amount of blood & gore here , while not particularly graphic there is plenty of bloodshed , there are various ripped throats , mutilated bodies , dog munching & a bit where someone is chopped in half & their intestines are splattered are all over the place . With a budget of about $1 , 200 , 000 , filmed in the Turks & Caicos Islands Chupacabra Terror technically is a decent film , some of the special effects aren't the best but none are that bad , it can't really escape it's low budget made-for-video origins but it's certainly watchable . The acting is average , hey I'm trying to be kind here . While it's not going to win any awards for artistic merit or originality I thought Chupacabra Terror was a good , fun & entertaining monster film but going by some of the other comments here on the IMDb I think I'm in the minority with that opinion . Personally I think it's worth a watch & who cares what other people think anyway . . .
" I'm completely cured , if I wasn't they wouldn't have released me . " OK 80's slasher .	Sleepaway Camp II : Unhappy Campers is set at Camp Rolling Hills where it's Angela Baker's ( Pamla Springsteen ) first year as a counsellor , the camp is full to bursting & the teen guests are doing what most teens do . However Angela has high standards & she thinks all this drug taking , having sex , playing nasty practical jokes , breaking the rules & back chat is ruining it for the nice kids like Molly ( Renee Estevez ) whom she likes . Angela thinks no one understands her so she feels it's her duty to clean the camp up in her own unique way . . . Co-produced & directed by Michael A . Simpson I thought Sleepaway Camp II : Unhappy Campers was an OK slasher from the 80's but nothing that special . The script by Fritz Gordon is as bare-bones as they come even for the teen slasher genre which isn't exactly renowned for it's deep meaningful stories & character's . Most slashers have at least one or two central character's by which the filmmakers base the action around but Sleepaway Camp II : Unhappy Campers just seems to randomly switch between everyone at regular intervals & the only reason Molly ends up with a lot of screen time at the end is because everyone else is dead . To it's credit at least it moves along at a nice pace & it managed to retain my interest mainly because of the pleasingly large body count although the killer is revealed within the first five minutes so a lot of potential plot , mystery & interest is lost straight away & it really does just come down to seeing how everyone gets killed & nothing else . Angela has to be the worst , most unscary & unintimidating killer in all of slasher film history speaking of which there's a few homages to other slasher films particularly the A Nightmare on Elm Street & Friday the 13th series as Angela kills two people dressed up in Freddy & Jason costumes which you can read into whatever you want . I suppose if all you want is some nudity & a few murders then Sleepaway Camp II : Unhappy Campers is as good as anything out there but for those who want a bit more like proper character's & a storyline that doesn't reveal itself before the opening credits have even played then there's better out there . Director Simpson does alright & generally speaking the film looks decent enough but a lot of it is set during the day which doesn't help the atmosphere , there's virtually no build up or tension to any of the murders & there isn't a thunder storm in sight ! There's a good body count & the kills are OK , there's a decapitation , a slit throat , someone is bashed over the head with a log , someone is killed with a chainsaw ( off screen unfortunately ) , people are set on fire , there's a strangulation , some stabbings , there's a severed hand , someone is hanged & impaled , there's a fair amount of blood splatter , there are lots of mutilated dead body shots at the end & someone is drowned in an outhouse toilet . To be honest it's not that graphic & there's nothing here we haven't seen before . Techncially the film is fine , it's neither spectacularly or badly made . Shot back-to-back with it's sequel Sleepaway Camp III : Teenage Wasteland ( 1989 ) & was filmed at a YMCA youth camp in Georgia , apparently . The acting is pretty poor here I'm afraid . Sleepaway Camp II : Unhappy Campers is a decent enough slasher that passed 90 odd minutes but it left me a bit cold & a bit empty , even for a 80's slasher this seems shallow & predictable . Worth watching if your a fan of the genre but not otherwise . A fourth Sleepaway Camp film Sleepaway Camp IV : The Survivor ( 2002 ) was started but never completed although yet another sequel Return to Sleepaway Camp ( 2007 ) is in the can .
" It's like I'm in a bad Tales from the Crypt episode . " Fun . . . but not for everyone .	Bordello of Blood starts late one night as two drunken friends Caleb ( Corey Feldmen ) & Reggie ( Matt Hill ) get a tip from someone in bar about a funeral home that moonlights as a whorehouse nearby , they decide to pay it a visit . Several days later & Caleb's sister Katherine ( Erika Eleniak ) is worried since he she hasn't seen him since that night , she goes to the police but they aren't interested so she hires private investigator Rafe Guttman ( Dennis Miller ) . Guttman follows a lead to the funeral home & quickly realise that something sinister is going on , after further investigation Guttman discovers that all the prostitutes that frequent the bordello are in fact blood sucking Vampires . . . Co-written , produced & directed by Gilbert Adler Bordello of Blood was the second in a planned but unfinished trilogy of Tales from the Crypt feature length horror films with the first being Tales from the Crypt : Demon Knight ( 1995 ) which was better than this but having said that I still thought Bordello of Blood was fairly fun if a little dumb . The very light hearted script by Adler & co-producer A L Katz makes for a pretty cheesy horror film that seems to serve as nothing more than an excuse for some one-liners , some lowbrow humour & most importantly plenty of blood & breasts . The one thing that surprised me about this Tales of the Crypt film is that it is so far removed from the TV series which ran for ninety three episodes between 1989 & 1996 , while all but one of the TV series episodes were actually based on a comic book story Bordello of Blood wasn't . While the majority of the TV series had a dark macabre atmosphere , often a jet black sense of humour & usually a just deserts twist ending Bordello of Blood has none of these things & the intriguing & imaginative stories have been replaced with a fairly moronic comedy tale of Vampire prostitutes . It certainly moves along at a nice pace , there's plenty of blood & breasts & sometimes the comedy works but the films only entertainment value comes from it's exploitation content . Director Adler does alright , it looks nice enough & is well made . There's some good gore , there are ripped out hearts , blood drinking , exploding & melting Vampires , a ripped off hand , a graphic scene of someone having their head torn off & there's plenty of blood splashed around . The breast content is high although according to the IMDb some TV versions replace these scenes with shots where the women are clothed , urgh hell no . It's surprising that with a creative producing team including Walter Hill , Richard Donner & especially Robert Zemeckis Bordello of Blood is such an unoriginal , brainless & moronic film . The film is inevitably bookended with the obligatory Crypt Keeper sequences filled with plenty of bad puns which are quite fun if your into that sort of thing . Technically the film is good & has that Hollywood polish about it . Ex Baywatch ( 1989 - 1992 ) babe Eleniak is easy on the eye while comic Dennis Miller is quite funny . Several cast members had already appeared in the Tales from the Crypt TV series including Corey Feldman who was in The Assassin ( 1994 ) from season six , Aubrey Morris was in ' Til Death ( 1990 ) from season two , Phil Fondacaro was in Food for Thought ( 1993 ) from season five , William Sadler was in The Assassin along with Feldman & the very first episode from the very first season The Man Who Was Death ( 1989 ) as well as being in the first Tales from the Crypt film Demon Knight while Whoopi Goldberg who makes an uncredited cameo was in Dead Wait ( 1991 ) during season three . Bordello of Blood is a fun little horror film that you don't have to think about too much to enjoy , just sit back & enjoy the blood & breasts .
There's only one thing worse than being trapped in a haunted house with a ghost , being trapped in one with Thir13en Ghosts !	Thirt13en Ghosts starts in a junk yard , full with piles of old battered and wrecked cars . Cyrus Kriticos ( F . Murray Abraham ) is a wealthy collector . He is currently in the process of collecting twelve ghosts , with the help of a psychic named Dennis Rafkin ( Matthew Lillard ) who has the power to locate ghosts . He already has eleven . Cyrus , Dennis and their team of men are there to capture the twelfth . They succeed but at a price , many of Cyrus's men are killed as is Cyrus himself when his throat is slashed . Arthur Kriticos ( Tony Shalhoub ) lives alone in a small apartment with his daughter Kathy ( Shannon Elizabeth ) and young son Bobby ( Alec Roberts ) after the recent death of his wife in a fire . One morning while having breakfast there's a knock at the door . A lawyer named Benjamin Moss ( JR Bourne ) introduces himself . Moss represents Cyrus who has left everything he had to his only surviving relative , Arthur . Including his house he built , everyone is excited and start to wonder if their luck is beginning to change for the better . Moss says he will take them to the house which is about 2 hours from the city and located in a secluded & private wooded area called ' Willow Grove ' . The Kriticos family and their annoying babysitter Maggie Bess ( Rah Digga ) arrive at the house and are shocked by what they see . Cyrus's house is spectacular , it's huge , the design is elaborate and made of what appears to be glass panels with strange writings on them . The house is quite simply stunning . Waiting at the door for them is a man who claims to be from the power company and has to check the circuit breakers , however the viewer knows that it is Dennis the psychic from the opening sequence . They all enter the house and start to explore their wonderful new home . Meanwhile when he senses an opportunity Moss steals a bag full of money which triggers a mechanism that locks the house down , trapping everyone inside . It also begins to release Cyrus's twelve ghosts that he kept in the basement from their protective cubes . Moss is quickly taken care of . Dennis starts to confess to Arthur the real reasons he is there and says there is no way out of the house . Arthur feels they should carry on the conversation outside and that they should find his children and get out . The writings on the glass panels are actually ' containment spells ' which gives them some protection from the ghosts . Dennis also gives Arthur some special glasses which allow the wearer to see the ghosts . Kalina Oretzia ( Embeth Davidtz ) appears from nowhere and claims she is try so save the ghosts souls and that the house itself is a giant machine designed by the Devil and powered by the dead and has the ability to open the ' Eye of Hell ' . The house needs Thirteen Ghosts and Cyrus collected twelve , The First Born Son ( Mikhael Speidel ) , The Torso , The Gambler ( Daniel Wesley ) , The Bound Woman ( Laura Mennell ) , The Torn Prince ( Craig Olejnik ) , The Angry Princess ( Shawna Loyer ) , The Pilgrimess ( Xantha Radley ) , The Great Child ( C . Ernst Harth ) & The Dire Mother ( Laurie Soper ) , The Hammer ( Herbert Duncanson ) , The Jackal ( Shayne Wyler ) , The Juggernaut ( John DeSantis ) and The Withered Lover ( Kathryn Anderson ) who happens to be the ghost of Arthurs dead wife Jean . But the house supposedly needs thirteen ghosts so where is the thirteenth ? Will Arthur be able to find his children and escape the house and stop the ' Eye to Hell ' being opened ? Directed by Steve Beck I thought this was a fairly decent Hollywood effort but it isn't anything particularly special . The script by Neal Marshall Stevens and Richard D'Ovidio is rather slow at times , particularly the middle third , but it does a reasonable job of keeping the viewer in the dark over what exactly is going on and reveals itself bit by bit although the actual twists when revealed aren't overly exciting or interesting . There's not much gore in it and only the lawyers death is any fun . CGI seems to have been kept to a minimum and the ghosts themselves are actors with special make-up effects applied , by the extremely reliable Robert Kurtzman , Gregory Nicotero and Howard Berger of KNB EFX's . They are very impressive to look at even if their severely underused and they just disappear for the final 20 odd minutes or so once the house and it mechanism starts to kick in . I must mention the production design by Sean Hargreaves and especially the house itself , it's extremely memorable is just plain cool and I would love to live in a house like this . Having said that it did get a little repetitive after a while as just about the entire film is set inside it , it also appears to be a lot bigger inside than out ! It creates a visually interesting film to look at , even though in reality it would be very impractical , just imagine the window cleaning bill ! The acting is OK but I found Maggie the babysitter very irritating as the obligatory ' comedy relief ' character . Generally speaking it's well made and has a good polish about it , but with a budget this big that's the least I expect . I liked it to an extent , but it's nothing to get too excited about . Slightly above average and definitely worth a watch .
Decent start for the horror anthology show .	Monsters : The Feverman starts as loving father Timothy Mason ( John C . Vennema ) desperately knocks at the door of faith healer Boyle ( David McCallum ) with his sick near to death young daughter Katherine ( Michele Gornick ) in his arms . Medical science cannot cure Katherine & Boyle , also known as the Feverman , is her last chance . With his friend Dr . James Burke ( Patrick Garner ) in tow trying to convince Timothy not to trust the Feverman he has no choice but to put his daughter's life in his hands , the Feverman goes to work & manages to remove the disease from Katherine but in a rather more literal sense than anyone expected . . . Episode one from season one of Monsters this originally aired in the US during October 1988 , directed by Michael Gornick ( presumably Michele Gornick who plays Katherine is his daughter in a cheeky cameo ) this is a decent enough opening episode for a series that strongly resembles Tales from the Darkside ( 1984 - 1988 ) as it shares a lot of the same production team & the same basic premise of fantasy stories set around one or two simple locations with a small cast due to it's low budget only with Monsters there's more of an emphasis on horror & , obviously , monsters with most episodes featuring at least one . The story in The Feverman has a certain amount of imagination as a faith healer turns a disease into a real physical monster which he then fights but there's not much else to it & the supposedly ironic twist ending in which the sceptical none believing doctor actually becomes the new Feverman at the end is standard horror anthology twist fare although it works perfectly well here . Apparently king of special make-up effects Dick Smith worked on this episode which is probably why the monster in it looks so good , it's probably best described as a fat Sumo wrestler covered in warts if you could imagine such a thing . I particularly liked the way his flabby stomach & saggy ' wings ' of skin under his upper arms wobbled & moved just like the real thing ! There's a good atmosphere too & the dingy basement set is quite nice . The name in the cast is obviously veteran English actor David McCallum who does OK . The Feverman is a decent if unspectacular start to the series , it's worth a watch for sure if you can catch it on telly for free but don't bust a gut or strain a muscle to see it .
" I'm the one who kills people , not you . " Not bad actually .	Memoirs of an Invisible Man starts with the totally invisible Nick Halloway ( Chevy Chase ) sitting , we have to take his word for it , in front of a video camera & beginning to tell the tale of how he became invisible . . . Nick Halloway is a successful stock broker working in San Francisco who has just started to date an attractive woman named Alice Monroe ( Daryl Hannah ) , one morning after a hard nights drinking he decides to skip a particularly long-winded & boring speech by Dr . Bernard Wachs ( Jim Norton ) at a science research lab , he sneaks off to the toilets to go to sleep for a while . On his way he ask's a technician the way who points Nick in the general direction , however while doing so he knocks over a cup of coffee which sends the entire building into meltdown & causes some process that makes large sections of it totally invisible . Unfortunately for Nick he happened to be sleeping in one of those sections & is now completely invisible as well . Corrupt CIA agent David Jenkins ( Sam Neill ) takes charge & sees the financial possibilities of an invisible man , Nick doesn't like his ideas or the thought of being a spy & makes a run for it but Jenkins is determined to get him back by any means necessary , dead or alive . . . Directed by John Carpenter I thought Memoirs of an Invisible Man wasn't that bad a film & in fact I quite liked it . The script by Robert Collector , Dana Olsen & William Goldman is based on the book by H . F . Saint of the same name but I have not read it so I cannot compare the two . Most invisible man films are horror orientated & with Carpenter at the helm you may think this might be the same but Memoirs of an Invisible Man is more of an action film with lots of romance & some comedy as well for good measure . The action is fairly low-key & since it's a very family friendly film there's no violence to worry about , the romantic elements dominate the film from about half way which is annoying because watching the slimy Jenkins trying to get Halloway back is far more entertaining than watching the obligatory blossoming romance between the two lead character's & the comedy is thankfully quite restrained with some OK one liners & some mildly amusing slapstick . There are some neat ideas here too as Nick encounters all sorts of problems like he could steal all the money he wanted but how would he spend it ? He couldn't go into a shop & psychically buy something could he ? I liked the way the film is told through Halloway's narration , it moves along at a nice pace & never becomes boring although I thought the climax was rather unadventurous & forgettable . One more thing , when was the last time spilling a cup of coffee on a computer keyboard started fires & made an entire state-of-the-art building malfunction ? Director Carpenter is more widely known for his horror & Sci-Fi films like Halloween ( 1978 ) & Escape From New York ( 1981 ) so Memoirs of an Invisible Man seems a strange choice of film for him to tackle , anyway he does a decent job as he keeps things moving & there are some really nice touches like when Halloway smokes & we see the smoke fill his lungs before he breathes it out again or a scene when Nick is chewing bubble gum & blows a bubble . Generally speaking Memoirs of an Invisible Man is somewhat flat to look at & doesn't have much visual style or flair to it except for a few neat special effects . Carpenter pays homage to The Invisible Man ( 1933 ) as he dresses Halloway in the infamous bandages & black goggles to resemble the title character from the black and white classic . With a supposed budget of about $40 , 000 , 000 Memoirs of an Invisible Man is technically an excellent film considering the time it was made , the CGI effects aren't going to impress that many people these days but they look pretty good & hold up well even when viewed today . Other than though I can't really see where 40 big ones went apart from a small car chase , the photography , music & production values are all good & have that Hollywood polish to them but are distinctly forgettable . The acting is OK with Neill standing out as the villain . Memoirs of an Invisible Man is a pretty good way to pass an hour and a half , it's good , clean ( apart from a few swear words ! ) undemanding fun that is worth a watch but don't bust a gut to find it or spend too much money on it . Overall , not too bad & better than I had anticipated .
I thought it was pretty good fun , in a crap way of course . You'll be amazed at how many times the word ' Pinata ' can be said in a single film .	Demon Island , also known as Pinata : Survival Island , starts with a black & white sequence set 100's of years ago where a tribal Shamen ( Syante Villa ) captures all the evil spirits present in his village & imprisons them in a Pinata , a creepy looking clay effigy , & then chucks it in a river to float away . . . Jump to ' May 5 2001 ' & the island of ' Cinco De Mayo ' where Woodston University are holding their annual scavenger hunt for charity . Impartial judge's Paul ( Garrett Wang ) & Monica ( Casey Fallo ) explain the rules , the contestants are split into pairs & handcuffed together , there are over 25 , 000 pieces of underwear that are scattered over Cinco De Mayo & the pair who have the most when the hunt ends wins , simple eh ? The contestants are cuffed together & the hunt begins , Bob ( Robert Tena ) & Lisa ( Lara Boyd Rhodes ) come across the clay Pinata from the opening sequence . Bob decides to crack it open , bad move as the Pinata comes to life & kills him . The vicious Pinata then goes on a killing spree , brutally murdering anyone he comes across . Will the other couples , Kyle ( Nicholas Brendon ) & Tina ( Jaime Pressly ) , Jake ( Nate Richert ) & Julie ( Daphne Duplaix ) , Larry ( Aeryk Egan ) & Connie ( Tressa DiFiglia ) plus Doug ( Eugene Byrd ) & Carmen ( Julia Mendoza ) find a way to defeat the Pinata & survive Demon Island . . . Written , produced & directed by David & Scott Hillenbrand , who also have small cameos at the end of the film , Demon Island is a really bad film , but at the same time I had an enormous amount of fun with it . The script moves along at a nice enough pace & it doesn't take too long to get into the action . The character's are mixed , some of them are OK while others are annoying clichés of the worst kind . The body count is suitably high & I liked the Pinata guy himself , he's a freaky looking little creep . On the negative side it's very silly , predictable & is somewhat one dimensional . I thought it passed 85 minutes entertainingly enough although you need to like ' bad ' films & be able to have a laugh with it & at least it doesn't take itself too seriously either . One more thing , why tell us the date at the start & when it turned ' May 6 ' as what day it is has absolutely no relevance to anything that happens in the slightest ! Director's the Hillenbrand's don't bring much in the way of atmosphere , tension or scares as they show the Pinata at every opportunity rather than build things up & a lot of the film is in broad daylight which doesn't help . The special effects are pretty bad , from the Pinata who looks like a badly animated computer game graphic more often than not to the awful bike crash scene & more besides . I must mention the sound effects , I hated them & whenever the Pinata showed up the loud indefinable noise it made gave me a headache . Surprisingly there's a reasonable amount of gore , some severed limbs , a decapitation , someone has their head bashed in with a shovel resulting in much blood loss & a cut in half body hanging up with it's insides hanging out . With a budget that obviously didn't amount to much Demon Island looks pretty cheap although I have seen worse . The special effects , as I've mentioned are awful & belong in a computer game more than a film . The tropical island locations are nice enough to look at & the opening sequence was well realised . The acting was bad , but then what did you expect ? Demon Island was a pleasant surprise as I had a lot of fun with it , it's certainly not boring , had some proper gore scenes & a semi-effective monster . If your looking for a serious piece of film-making then avoid Demon Island like the plague but if you just want some fun then I think it's well worth watching & having a laugh with . Better than I expected but that isn't saying much .
Decent Stephen King adaptation .	Firestarter starts as Andrew McGee ( David Keith ) & his young daughter Charlene ( Drew Barrymore ) escape the clutches of some federal agent type guy's , you see a shadowy Governemt organisation called ' The Shop ' conducted some experiments on Andrew & Charlene's mother Victoria ( Heather Locklear ) who then got together , had sex & ended up with Charlene who as a result of the experiments is a pyrokinetic & can start fires by just thinking about it . Now the evil guy's & gal's who run The Shop want Andrew for his own telekinetic abilities & Charlene for hers , Andrew knows they want to conduct experiments on himself & Charlene for their own evil purposes & is determined not to let The Shop get hold of them . . . Directed by Mark L . Lester & adapted from the Stephen King novel of the same name Firestarter is fairly mean spirited but watchable horror / thriller . The script by Stanley Mann which takes itself very seriously is at it's most enjoyable during it's first half when Andrew & Charlene are on the run which is when it is pretty interesting & relatively absorbing , unfortunately the second half of the film switches gears completely & it becomes evil scientists vs . Charlene & lets face it there was only ever going to be one winner . I'm not happy about the long sequences of Charlene making people burn to death , I'm sorry but I felt no sympathy for her as a character & the scenes of these people burning , whether they had done anything to her or not , were pretty strong & Lester certainly likes to dwell on their pain & the screams they make as they burn . I usually love exploitation & the nastier the better but these parts in Firestarter just didn't sit well we me at all & thought they were gratuitous & unnecessary . The character's aren't great , the dialogue is OK & I didn't really see why they wanted to capture Andrew & Charlene so badly , I mean whose bright idea was it to suggest they could control her anyway ? Ultimately what did they intend to do with her ? It moves along at a reasonable pace & isn't too boring but I doubt I'd want to watch it anytime again soon . Director Lester does a good job , the suitably fiery climax is pretty brutal as Charlene dishes out some swift & severe punishment . Apparently Lester replaced John Carpenter who was originally set to direct but after the critical & financial failure of The Thing ( 1982 ) , which coincidently is one of the biggest travesty's in cinematic history , the money men at Universal ' removed ' him from the project . I wouldn't call it scary , it's not particularly creepy or exciting either but it does have a certain sinister atmosphere . There are some strong scenes of people being set on fire & burning to death here , the special effects do a great job perhaps even too great a job as they come across as excessive . Forget about any gore or violence as there isn't any . Shot in North Carolina & boasting a very healthy sounding budget of about $15 , 000 , 000 Firestarter has a very slick & professional look about it , it's well made with impressive fire effects & it has high production values . There's a surprisingly good cast here , Martin Sheen who took over from Burt Lancaster at short notice , Drew Barrymore who was riding high on the success of E . T . ( 1982 ) , coincidently E . T . was the reason why The Thing bombed at the box-office , George C . Scott complete with comedy eye-patch & Heather Locklear are all probably recognisable to the average film-goer . Firestarter is a decent enough time waster , it's an OK Stephen King adaptation , it has a good cast & some impressive fire effects but as a whole it's average with a predictable & lightweight story that ultimately goes nowhere . Followed by the made-for-TV sequel Firestarter II : Rekindled ( 2002 ) which brings the villain John Rainbird back from the dead somehow . . .
The one with Meat Loaf as a mad scientist .	Monsters : Where's the Rest of Me ? is set on a civil war torn Caribbean island where scientist Doctor Willard Wingite ( Meat Loaf ) lives & conducts his groundbreaking if somewhat unethical organ transplant experiments . Joining him there are three of his success stories , singer Regina ( Black-Eyed Susan ( ! ) ) who had her vocal chords replaced , star football player Joe ( Franco Harris ) who had a new knee & property mogul J . J . ( Drew Eliot ) whose sight was restored by Wingite with a cornea transplant . Doctor Wingite urges the three to invest in his organ preservation serum which they are happy to do , but the original donor of the various body parts is still alive in Wingite's laboratory thanks to the serum & wants his missing organs back . . . Episode six from season one of Monsters this originally aired in the US during November 1988 , written & directed by Richard Benner this a pretty good mad scientist / Frankenstein themed episode of the horror anthology show Monsters that in all fairness probably is closer to Re-Animator ( 1985 ) than Frankenstein but you get the general idea . Like all of these twenty odd minute episodes of Monsters this episode finishes just as your getting into it but Where's the Rest of Me ? is good ghoulish fun while it last's & I liked it , I liked that the zombie here actually had some motivation & a purpose as it tried to get it's stolen organs back including a gory demise for rock singer Meat Loaf who here looks quite slim . The character's are alright but Wingite remains a little bit too calm for me & are you telling me he wasn't aware that giving Adam the corpse a load of his serum would have revived him ? There's a sub-plot about a revolution going on in the background on the island which doesn't amount to much to be fair . A good episode overall with some nice gore although once the plot reveals that Adam is after his stolen organs it's pretty predictable for the most part but the ending is still quite good & rounds things off nicely . It's amazing how the production team of Monsters made so much out of such meagre resources , here there's only two sets & five people in the entire thing but it works & you don't feel there needs to be anything else . The sets that are here look good & I think there's a definite nod towards Re-Animator with it's bright green life giving serum although one has to say Meat Loaf is no Jeffrey Combs . Here Meat Loaf wears a horrible white suit , red shirt & multi-coloured tie which would have been bad enough on it's own but Meat Loaf also has a ponytail as well just to top the look off . Meat Loaf has actually been in a few horror anthology show's including this , What's Cookin ' ( 1992 ) from Tales from the Crypt , Gettysburg ( 2000 ) from The Outer Limits & Pelts ( 2006 ) from Masters of Horror . There's a bit of gore here including a cut out knee cap , poked out eyeballs & a ripped out heart . Where's the Rest of Me ? is a watchable mad scientist Frankenstein style Monsters episode that I actually liked , there was a decent enough story , the main monster had purpose & the two sets look rather nice . A good solid episode , by no means the best but nowhere near the worst .
" If you want magic bend over & I'll pull a rabbit out of your are . " Entertaining third instalment of the Leprechaun series	Leprechaun 3 is set entirely in Las Vegas where Gupta ( Marcelo Tubert ) runs a shop called ' The Pawn Place ' . One night a man named Lucky ( Richard Reicheg ) walks in & wants to sell a stone statue of an ugly Leprechaun ( Warwick Davis ) , Gupta gives the guy $20 for it but before Lucky leaves he warns Gupta not to remove the medallion from around it's neck . As one would expect Gupta takes the medallion straight away to see how much it's worth & the Leprechaun comes to life & leaves his pot of gold exposed . Gupta decides to take the gold for himself but the Leprechaun kills him to get it back . Meanwhile outside a woman named Tammy Larsen ( Lee Armstrong ) has broken down & good natured teenager Scott McCoy ( John Gatins ) decides to give her a lift to work , the ' Lucky Shamrock Casino ' . Scott is on his way to Los Angeles to go to college but can't resist the temptation to gamble his $23 , 000 college fund , he loses the lot . To try & win some of it back he sets out to pawn his gold watch & discovers one of the Leprechaun's gold pieces which he accidentally finds out can grant the owner a wish , soon other people discover the secret too as the gold passes from person to person who all get a visit from the evil Leprechaun in a search for his gold piece . . . Directed by Brian Trenchard-Smith I thought Leprechaun 3 was OK . The script by David DuBos never takes itself seriously & there are a few amusing moments dotted throughout the film like the bit where the Leprechaun meets an Elvis impersonator . Obviously part of a franchise the Leprechaun character swears & rhymes his way through various one-liners , I have to admit I quite like the little fellow . The film moves along at a nice enough pace & is never boring or dull . The horror is somewhat diluted & the way the Leprechaun dispatches his victims all comes across as very silly so if you want something deep & meaningful then Leprechaun 3 is most definitely not the film for you . I thought the character's were actually quite likable from the talentless magician Fazio ( John DeMita ) to the vain Loretta ( Caroline Williams ) . For whatever reason I found Leprechaun 3 entertaining & at the end of the day that's all I really want from a film . Director Smith gives a nod to one of his previous film Turkey Shoot ( 1982 ) with a bit when the Leprechaun bites someone's toe off . He directs with competence & the Las Vegas setting is cool but nothing really stands out . There's not much gore , a toe & ear biting scene , someone explodes ( but strangely there's no blood ) , someone is bitten & the films best moment when Fazio the magician is cut in half on stage by the Leprechaun , with a chainsaw . Technically the film is fine with good production values & it's generally well made considering the budget must have been pretty small & went straight to video . The acting is alright & Davis seems to enjoy his role as the evil Leprechaun , a special word for Armstrong as Tammy who is one fine looking lady & gets to wear a great outfit for the majority of the films duration which is fine with me . I liked Leprechaun 3 overall & it's far better than than the crap second film Leprechaun 2 ( 1994 ) . Three more straight to video Leprechaun films followed this , Leprechaun 4 : In Space ( 1997 ) , Leprechaun in the Hood ( 2000 ) , Leprechaun : Back 2 tha Hood ( 2003 ) . Definitely worth a watch .
Not a bad horror anthology .	A man walks up to the locked gates of a large country house , somewhere in England . It turns out he is a police inspector from Scotland yard investigating the disappearance of a famous film star ( Jon Pertwee ) who was renting the property . At the local police station he quizzes the Sergeant . He blames the house and starts to tell the inspector a story about one of the previous tenants . And so we begin the first story which stars Denholm Elliott as writer who rents the house with his wife so he can finish the novel hes working on . However , things are not what they seem as Dominic , the murderous villain from his novel maybe more than just a character in a book . After that story the sergeant then tells another . This time about a retired stock broker played by the ever willing Peter Cushing . On a trip into the local village Cushing comes across a waxworks and decides to have a look . I wont spoil the rest of this story for you but Joss Ackland turns up in this segment , as a friend of Cushing . The inspector believes none of this nonsense and promptly goes in search of the estate agent who rents the property . The agent also warns the inspector about the house and tries to convince him by telling yet another story . Chistopher Lee stars in this one as John Reid . He and his daughter Jane move into the house . He hires a tutor / nanny Nyree Dawn Porter to look after and educate his daughter while he is away in London on business . Generally speaking he doesn't treat Jane that well , which is explained in the shock / twist ending of this chapter . The final story reveals what happened to Pertwee , Ingrid Pitt is in this story too , and revolves around a supernatural cape / cloak . Each story lasts about 20mins or so , they don't outstay their welcome . Not a bad effort but the story's are a bit weak when compared to similar themed films like asylum , vault of horror , and creepshow . Worth a watch if you've seen those other films already and liked them .
A strange one for sure . . .	The Baby is set in the American town of Greenview where social worker Ann Gentry ( Anjanette Comer ) requests the difficult case of a gown man ( David Mooney ) who has the mental capacity of a baby , he lives with his mum ( Ruth Roman ) & his two sisters Germaine ( Marianna Hill ) & Alba Wadsworth ( Susanne Zenor ) . Ann spends some time with baby who doesn't even have a name & comes to the conclusion that his retardation & underdevelopment is due to abuse & his family trying to keep him the way he is for the welfare cheques . Ann is determined to take baby away from his abusive family , but for reasons you may not initially think . . . Directed by Ted Post this notorious film is certainly memorable if nothing else , it's a hard film to categorise although if I was pushed I'd say it was a twisted exploitative psychological thriller with a few horror overtones thrown into the mix here & there for good measure . The script by co-producer Abe Polsky has some truly twisted & memorable scenes in it , from babies family abusing him by prodding & electrocuting him with a cattle prod to a scene where baby makes his teenage babysitter breast feed him to the astonishing twist ending which has to be seen to be believed . One suspects that whoever came up with the story for The Baby probably thought of the twist ending first & then wrote the film as it is to build up to it , as I said the ending is certainly one of a kind but as a whole The Baby might have played better as a 25 minute episode of Tales from the Crypt ( 1989 - 1996 ) . Unfortunately I personally thought a lot of The Baby was utterly embarrassing , scenes of a grown man wearing nappies , imprisoned in a huge cot & wailing like a baby are simply hysterical & it's impossible to take these scenes seriously . The same goes for the twist ending , if it wasn't for the fact that most audience members will be pssing themselves with laughter it would have been seriously disturbing . A really oddball flick which mere words cannot do justice , I was definitely entertained by it although at the same time I didn't exactly love it but it certainly keeps you watching if only to see how much worse & how much more twisted it can get . Director Post had a variable career making all sorts of stuff from obscure nonsense like The Baby , Dairy of a Teenage Hitchhiker ( 1979 ) & the decent Nightkill ( 1980 ) to big budget Hollywood flicks like the Clint Eastwood western Hang ' Em High ( 1968 ) , Beneath the Planet of the Apes ( 1970 ) , the ' Dirty ' Harry sequel Magnum Force ( 1973 ) & the Chuck Norris action flick Good Guys Wear Black ( 1978 ) . Here he turns in a functional but forgettable looking film , it has a sleazy early 70's feel which is nice but little else going for it . There's not much violence in it , there are a couple of beatings , a bit of blood & some murders at the end but it's not graphic . There's some profanity as well although mild , one still has to wonder how this got away with a PG rating in the US though . Technically the film is alright , it looks decent enough although it's only set in about two houses . The acting is alright , Ruth Roman was a pretty big star during the 40's & 50's but was at the tail end of her career when she appeared in this . Prolific actor Michael Pataki has a small role . The Baby is a bizarre although memorable way to pass 85 minutes , it's not the greatest film ever & it's not quite as sick as it's reputation suggests but it is certainly a bit twisted at times . Exploitation fan should like it & those who enjoy oddball cinema should as well .
The thinking man's horror film .	The Asphyx starts in 70's London where the police attend a car accident in which a copper gasps ' he's still alive ' . . . Cut back to the turn of the 20th century & Victorian England as Sir Hugo Cunningham ( Robert Stephens ) arrives home to show Anna Wheatley ( Fiona Walker ) , his bride-to-be , off to his family . While at home Sir Hugo continues his experiments with his friend & colleague Sir Edward Barrett ( Alex Scott ) that involves research into photography , Hugo & Edward have discovered that they can take a picture of someone's asphyx , in essence they can take of photo of someone's soul as it departs the body in death or mortal danger . It's not long before tragedy strikes & Hugo's fiancé Anna & his son Clive ( Ralph Arliss ) are killed in a boating accident , Hugo is convinced that the asphyx appears before death . When he is invited to watch & film a prisoner being hanged he sets up a bright blue light which seems to catch the asphyx in it's beam & from which it can't escape . Hugo is sure that if someone's asphyx is trapped they will become immortal & unable to die , with this in mind he persuades his adopted son Giles ( Robert Powell ) to assist him in an experiment to capture his own asphyx & thus give him immortality . . . This British American co-production was directed by Peter Newbrook & while I have to give it credit for being different & trying it's hardest to be original that doesn't automatically make it a good film , does it ? The script by Brian Comport is very dialogue heavy & takes itself extremely seriously , it's pretty slow going & when all said & done not that much actually happens in it . There's no real exploitation , no action , no suspense , a lack of any blood or gore & when I think about it The Asphyx has very few horror elements in it . Now onto the logistical problems , for a start people have been photographed & filmed for decades & people's asphyx clearly do not appear at the point of death or near the point of death , does it ? So , straight away the basic story is just total complete & utter nonsense that I couldn't take that seriously because it's so easily disproved beyond any shadow of a doubt , I know it's just a film but films need to have at least some bearing in reality for us , the viewer that is , to care about anything or anyone on screen . Then there's the fact that Hugo couldn't get to his asphyx which was locked away in a crypt , well why couldn't he just use a load of explosives to destroy the door or better still the entire crypt which would in turn destroy the coffin which held his asphyx & let it go free ? It's just a door & four walls , I mean couldn't he break in somehow ? Also I wasn't convinced that an intelligent scientist could accidentally decapitate someone . Anyway , even if it was a bit predictable I must admit I liked the twist ending & how it came together but I couldn't help but feel the story would have been better served as a half an hour Tales from the Crypt episode ( 1989 - 1996 ) . Director Newbrook does a great job & The Asphyx looks good throughout , there's some cool cinematography & lighting , the production design & period sets , costumes & props are lush & give The Asphyx a nice atmosphere . The image of the ghostly screaming asphyx caught in the blue light is creepy & surprisingly effective . Forget about any gore as there isn't any . Technically The Asphyx is excellent , great cinematography , production design & it's very well made throughout . The acting is pretty good by everyone involved . The Asphyx is one of those films which is perhaps just a bit too clever for it's own good , I thought it was a good film & I enjoyed it but I wouldn't be in any hurry to see it again . Definitely worth a watch but apart from the nice ending it didn't quite do enough with it's unusual premise for me .
" Brains ! I want your brains ! " Entertaining enough comedy / horror .	Return of the Living Dead Part II starts on a dark night as the rain pours down . A jeep stops , stencilled on the jeep's bonnet in white letters are the words ' DEPARTMENT OF ARMY TOXIC AND HAZARDOUS WASTE ' . The driver gives a signal & a convoy of Army trucks start to appear in the distance . In the back of these trucks are the barrels containing the green gas that re-animates the dead from the original Return of the Living Dead ( 1985 ) . One of the trucks runs over a big pothole & three of the barrels fall from the back , one of which rolls down an embankment & into a river . A young boy named Jesse Wilson ( Micheal Kenworthy ) is having difficulty with two local bullies , Billy ( Thor Van Lingen ) & his mate Johnny ( Jason Hogan ) . After a scuffle Jesse tries to outrun them & hides in a small drainage outlet next to the local graveyard . Inside the three teenagers find the barrel , Jesse is locked into a nearby crypt in the graveyard while Billy & Johnny break the barrel open releasing the green gas which drifts over to the graveyard & with the help of the rain starts to contaminate the ground . The dead begin to rise . . . Meanwhile two grave-robbers named Joey ( Thom Mathews ) & Ed ( James Karen ) are stealing rings , watches & heads from various corpses . They hear noises & are attacked by zombies , together with Joey's girlfriend Brenda ( Suzanne Snyder ) they run for their lives to a nearby uncompleted housing development where Jesse is being looked after by his sister Lucy ( Marsha Dietlein ) while their parents are away , with a horde of brain eating zombies not far behind . Along with a cable T . V . repair guy named Tom Essex ( Dana Ashbrook ) the five decide to seek out the only other person on the estate with a car , Doc Mandel ( Philip Bruns ) . All seven leave the estate & head into town where they find everyone has been evacuated by the Army who now shoot anyone on sight . It's up to the small group of survivors to send the dead back to their graves once & for all , or they'll lose their brains trying . . . Written & directed by Ken Wiederhorn I thought Return of the Living Dead Part II was an entertaining enough comedy horror . The script is a little silly & goes for all out slapstick comedy at times which I thought didn't sit that well with the stronger horror elements , while none of it is particularly laugh-out-loud stuff I did find myself quietly smiling on occasion . On reflection maybe Return of the Living Dead Part II tries a little bit too hard to be funny , having a zombie try to grab hold of it's legs that are still walking around after he has been shotgun blasted in half , zombies stepping on other zombies hands as they rise from their graves , the Micheal Jackson cameo in a nod to his zombie filled song / music video Thriller ( 1983 ) , the talking decapitated head with a funny voice , a scene where Doc Mendel recognises one of the living dead & comments " hey look , it's Harvey . . . It wasn't my fault Harvey we ran out of type O ! " ( a one-liner which I thought was pretty funny actually ) , the severed hand grabbing Doc Mendel's privates & more besides . Not all of it works , but as I said I did find some of it mildly amusing . Return of the Living Dead Part II moves along at a nice pace & runs just over 80 minutes , at least it isn't boring & generally something was happening to maintain my interest in an otherwise lightweight & somewhat overly simplistic story . There is a decent amount of horror on show here as well , the cool slimy zombie from the original named ' Tarman ' ( Allan Trautman ) makes a reappearance , there is brain eating , shotgun blasting , decapitating & limb ripping fun for all even though it's not particularly graphic . Return of the Living Dead Part II is technically well made & has a certain polish throughout , it isn't going to win any awards for excellence but I've seen worse . I quite liked the music but bear in mind the version I'm reviewing is the original one & not the recent one issued on DVD with the altered soundtrack , I can't imagine watching this with different music . Now , I must admit that I have a problem with both the casting & acting in Return of the Living Dead Part II , why cast Mathews & Karen who were in the original as virtually the same characters ? Some of their dialogue is exactly the same , the things they do & have happen to them will also seem somewhat familiar to anyone who's seen the original . To make matters worse Karen puts in one of the most awful performances ever , constantly whining & shouting to an extent where he became very annoying . Kenworthy as Jesse can't act & comes across as a little brat but Dietlein as his sister Lucy is pretty hot actually . Doc Mandel is funny & almost saves the film on his own , almost . Overall I quite liked Return of the Living Dead Part II , it's fairly well made & features both comedy & horror , some of which works some of which don't . Having said that the annoying characters & actor's don't help , it's very silly in places & is probably an acquired taste . Personally I think it's worth watching , but maybe as a rental or on T . V . for free for those who haven't seen it before rather than a purchase , the choice is yours . . .
Good but not great , I much prefer the sequel .	Underworld tells the tale of a race of Werewolves known as the Lychans & a race of Vampires know as , well Vampires & the war that has raged between the two for centuries . The Vampire race has vowed to track down every Werewolf & wipe them out , Selene ( Kate Beckinsale ) is what's know as a deathdealer , one such Vampire who goes around killing Werewolves , it's a living I suppose . However she is suspicious that something big is going down in the Werewolf world , they seem to be after a human named Michael Corvin ( Scott Speedman ) who happens to have special blood because of someone who he is a descendant of , or something like that . The Werewolf leader Lucien ( Michael Sheen ) wants Michael's blood to genetically create a Vampire Werewolf cross which will be stronger than either a Vampire or Werewolf for reasons I can't be bothered to go into . It's up to the PVC clad Selene to save the day . . . This American , German , English & Hungarian co-production was directed by Len Wiseman & I thought it was a decent film although I got the impression that I'd seen it all before & it never quite got me going . I should say at this point that there appears to be two versions of Underworld in distribution , the original theatrical cut & a director's cut & to be honest I don't know which one I saw but it felt way too long either way . The script by Danny McBride is far too drawn out & takes all sorts of ideas & themes from other ( much better ) films like Blade ( 1998 ) & The Matrix ( 1999 ) in particular . One big problem I have with Underworld is it's length , at just over 2 hours for the theatrical version & significantly over 2 hours for the director's cut I found myself drifting away & losing interest at various stages as I don't think there's enough going on to sustain one's interest for a couple of hours plus . The basic story is thin to say the least as it mixes the usual traditional Vampire / Werewolf film-lore together with ultra modern up-to-date elements like genetics , hi-tech weaponry & fast cars . It's a fairly good mix to be honest & the film is a good watch but just too long . The plot tries to throw in a couple of twists & turns but I found it all pretty straight forward & a tad predictable . The character's are OK but nothing special & I found the constant comic book type dialogue annoying & repetitive after a while , overall I'd say Underworld is a good film for sure but nothing spectacular . Director Wiseman does a neat job on Underworld although one felt he was more interested on the visual side of it rather than the storyline , he bleaches almost all the colour out of the picture & there were a few moments where it looked liked he shot it in black and white . There's plenty of The Matrix style fights with people performing impossible leaps , lots of people firing cool looking guns in slow-motion & the like , to be honest none of the action scenes are particularly memorable & I found scenes of people firing guns at each other in slow-motion started to become dull well before the end . The film looks great being set within a cool comic book style industrial , Gothic , dark rain soaked world where everyone dresses in fetishistic rubber , PVC , leather & lace . The violence & gore was disappointing , apart from someone having their head sliced in half & some blood splatter there is actually very little of the red stuff present . With a modest sounding $22 , 000 , 000 budget Underworld looks more expensive than that , it's a stylish & well made film for sure but again it's nothing we haven't seen before . The special effects are pretty good , both physical & CGI . A special mention for Mrs Beckinsale who looks really hot in her PVC outfit , to be honest I reckon she's worth the price of admission on her own as she kicks & shoots her way through the film , hey I'm easily pleased . . . Underworld is a good film & one well worth watching if only for Beckinsale in PVC , however I felt it was too long , when you pick the bones from it there's not really much to it & it should have been more violent . Followed by the even better & totally brilliant Underworld : Evolution ( 2006 ) which I much prefer to this & the IMDb lists Untitled Underworld Prequel ( 2009 ) which I presume hasn't even started shooting yet .
" We'll pretend it never happened , like the time we went down on each other . " OK spoof .	Scary Movie starts with a young attractive girl named Drew Decker ( Carmen Electra ) being killed by a masked killer . Cindy Campbell ( Anna Faris ) her boyfriend Bobby Prinze ( Jon Abrahams ) , Brenda Meeks ( Regina Hall ) her boyfriend Ray Wilkins ( Shawn Wayans ) along with Greg Phillippe ( Lochlyn Munro ) & his girlfriend Buffy Gilmore ( Shannon Elizabeth ) are all good high-school friends who hide a terrible secret , the secret that they accidentally killed a man ( Craig Bruhnanski ) while drink driving & didn't tell the police . Cindy gets a sinister message that refers to the incident & she become convinced that the killer is after revenge & wants to kill them . . . Co-produced & directed by Keenen Ivory Wayans I thought Scary Movie was OK & had a few funny moments in it but it was rather repetitive . The script by Shawn Wayans , Marlon Wayans , Buddy Johnson , Phil Beauman , Jason Friedberg & Aaron Seltzer is basically a spoof of Scream ( 1996 ) with a large dose of I Know What You Did Last Summer ( 1997 ) for good measure . In fact there are scenes which are virtually shot for shot , obviously Scary Movie mocks & spoofs those films to varying degrees of effect . The emphasis is on crude juvenile gross-out humour that relies heavily on childish immature sexual jokes & gags which while some are genuinely funny they get tiresome quite quickly & the script doesn't have any real variety about it . It's just a constant stream of sex gags with very little else , some of it is funny while some of it isn't . It tries to spoof the traditional horror film clichés & rules which it does with some success I suppose . The film plays out almost exactly like Scream even the ending & as a whole the only real interest in Scary Movie are the bad taste gags which are very hit & miss , it really depends on your sense of humour & your knowledge of films it pays homage too on exactly how much you will enjoy Scary Movie . Director Wayans does OK , there are loads of references to other films but is that enough to sustain your attention for 90 odd minutes ? I'd say not really . With a supposed budget of about $19 , 000 , 000 it's well made & has that glossy Hollywood look to it . The acting isn't up to much really although the young cast are suitably attractive . Scary Movie is an OK watch , there are some funny moments & some not so funny moments while as a film it's virtually the same as Scream . It's quite fun to watch & pretty entertaining but too shallow & limited to really stand out . Followed by the hilarious & so much better Scary Movie 2 ( 2001 ) , then Scary Movie 3 ( 2003 ) , Scary Movie 4 ( 2006 ) followed & according to the IMDb Scary Movie 5 ( 2008 ) is set to follow . . .
Decent enough Midsomer Murders episode .	Midsomer Murders : Four Funerals and a Wedding is set in the small village of Broughton in which a feud between the sexes has divided the village since Word War One , the feud has been passed down the generations where the pro-feminist female side call themselves the Skimmington's while the misogynistic males call themselves the Rider's . Mildred Danvers ( Ann Morrish ) returns to Broughton after several decades for the funeral of her one time close friend Vivienne Marwood . It's the day of the annual Skimmington Fayre & DCI Tom Barnaby ( John Nettles ) has been dragged along by his wife Joyce ( Jane Wymark ) & his mother-in-law Muriel ( Daphne Oxenford ) only to called into official action when Mildred is found dead in her hotel room . Barnaby suspects foul play & when later in the day local Rev . Anthony Gant ( Richard McCabe ) is shot in the head & murdered during a Donkey race ( ! ) Barnaby has a double homicide on his hands . . . Episode 5 from season 9 this Midsomer Murders mystery was directed by Sarah Hellings & is a pretty decent episode although I found it a little silly at times & isn't up there with the series classics . The title Four Funerals and a Wedding is obviously a pun on the smash-hit British comedy Four Weddings and a Funeral ( 1994 ) & as the title suggests there are four death's although ( only one funeral is shown ) & a wedding at the end of a fairly by-the-numbers Midsomer Murders episode , it isn't bad by any stretch of the imagination but if I had the choice to watch any Midsomer Murders episode again I doubt very much I would pick Four Funerals and a Wedding . It starts off quite good with a couple of quick fire murders & yet another comic relief subplot about Barnaby's in-law including an amusing one where someone is shot through the head while riding a Donkey ! The killer's motives are alright & the back-story is decent too although I don't understand why they didn't kill Dr . O'Dowd when they had the chance & when he clearly saw them & therefore identify them to the police , I am not sure if it was meant to be obvious why they didn't kill the doc but if it was it passed me by . I wasn't too keen on the silly plot about Broughton being divided into two separate feuding factions , a bunch of guy's against some ladies just seemed a little whimsical to me . As usual there is lots of exposition & dialogue so you need to concentrate & have patience with it , those with a short attention span need not bother with it . Four Funerals and a Wedding is one of those Midsomer Murders episodes which features a village fête , I must admit I have lived in England all my life & have never seen a village fête in reality & I am starting to wonder whether this staple film & telly cliché is just that . There are three murders although two are off screen with the third not showing anything graphic . Filmed in Buckinghamshire the photography is as nice as usual & the production values are high . The acting is pretty good although no-one stands out particularly . Four Funerals and a Wedding is a good solid Midsomer Murders episode that features a decent body count & a reasonable plot but a slightly silly premise & an overall feeling that it's no more than average ultimately prevents it from being regarded as a classic in my mind .
Silly but sort of fun too .	Monsters : New York Honey is set in a high rise New York apartment block & starts as married couple Jay & Emerald Blake are having trouble sleeping because of the loud classical music coming from the apartment above owned by barmy Bee scientist Dr . Homer Jimenen , Jay decides to go & tell Jimenen to turn the music off & notices inside his apartment which is full of Bees & exotic plants . Dr . Jimenen lets Jay taste a sample of his specially formulated honey which he becomes instantly addicted to , sensing an opportunity to make money Jay blackmails Jimenen to let him sell it . Then a few weeks later a woman show's up in Jimenen's apartment , a woman with an unusual secret , a woman who is Jimenen's very own queen . . . Episode three from season one of Monsters this originally aired in the US during November 1988 , directed by Jerry Smith I quite liked this rather bizarre story although I would expect a lot of people might find it just too silly . The script goes mostly for laughs as the over the top character's , silly situations & dialogue is there for all to see . Then just when you think it can't get any more daft it throws a memorable but utterly bonkers twist ending at you which for me makes New York Honey quite entertaining in a totally off the wall sort of way . I certainly didn't expect the twist & I doubt many will so in that regard it has the potential to surprise , it's just a shame that it comes across as almost like a spoof of 50's ' mad doctor / scientist creates giant monster / bug ' type films which clearly wasn't the makers intention but doesn't really do the episode any harm as a whole since it is generally quite light hearted . At only twenty or so minutes long at least it's short enough not to drag or outstay it's welcome & while not the best piece of telly ever I did enjoy it for what it was although I did feel a little bit guilty that I did ! With the budget so tight on the show once again there are only two sets & only four actor's in it . There's a sort of bizarre twisted sitcom feel about New York Honey that I liked too . The special effects are alright although the final giant Bee monster at the end does look a bit naff but the transformation scenes from human to Bee monster by comparison look pretty good . Most Monsters episodes go for scares & are fairly serious in tone but New York Honey is definite an exception as it has a spoofy feel to it . The acting is way over the top with the cast members pulling silly faces every five seconds & exaggerating their lines & performance in general . New York Honey is an undeniably silly & light hearted episode of Monsters that I actually thought was pretty good although I probably shouldn't have . The bizarre plot , the memorable twist & one or two amusing moments make this well worth a watch if you can catch it on telly for free .
Decent enough low-budget Werewolf horror film .	The Beast of Bray Road is set in Walworth County , Wisconsin & starts late one night as Kelly ( Sarah Lieving ) , the owner of the imaginatively named bar Kelly's , closes up for the night . Potential lovers Billy ( Tom Nagel ) & Gretchin ( Heather Conforto ) have an argument & Gretchin drives off on her own , however her car breaks down a short time later & while stuck in the middle of nowhere she is attacked by a Werewolf like creature & brutally killed . . . It's not long before soon to be the new Sheriff Phil Jenkins ( Jeff Denton ) has found Gretchins abandoned car & starts to investigate , as he tries to find the whereabouts of Gretchin he is told of the local legends about the supposed ' Beast of Bray Road ' which has apparently stalked the area for years . At first Jenkins is understandably sceptical but as the bodies start to pile up & a flood of ' Beast ' sightings are reported he might have to rethink his position & break out the silver bullets . . . Apparently ' Based on a True Story ' ( according to the opening credits ) , edited , written & directed by Leigh Slawner I thought The Beast of Bray Road was a pretty decent little horror film , it's nothing spectacular but it's certainly watchable in it's own right . The script moves along at a fair pace & it's not overly boring or talky . The film keeps the Werewolf's identity a secret until the end & the actual revelation as to whom it is comes across as a neat little twist that isn't as obvious as it might have been . There are pleasing amounts of violence & there's some nice nudity as well . I thought the character's were a bit poor , lots of small town small minded bigot's who hate the police & get drunk all the time . Still , nothings perfect right ? The Beast of Bray Road isn't the best horror film ever made but it's a pretty decent time-waster all the same & there aren't too many Werewolf films out there , let alone good ones . I'm not sure what else I can say about it , it's a perfectly watchable film & that's about all that need to be said really . Director Slawner does a pretty good job , the film looks quite good & isn't as cheap looking as a lot of low budget horror films . There isn't many scares & there's not much atmosphere either but there's some nice gore , there are crushed heads , split open heads , decapitated heads , someone has their leg torn off , there are various unfortunate people who have their intestines pulled out & eaten , there's a gory blood splattered skeleton , bodies ripped in half & there's a lot of blood splashed around which helps . There's some nudity as well . The special effects are good as well & there isn't a rubbishy cartoon CGI effect in sight , the Werewolf creature looks decent although we never see any sort of transformation scene & unlike a lot of Werewolf films whether it appears or not seems to have nothing to do with there being a full moon or not . Technically The Beast of Bray Road is fine & considering it's low budget shot on a digital camcorder type origins it's pretty good . The acting was also fairly good . The Beast of Bray Road is one of those films which is watchable , it isn't going to top anyones ' best film ' list but it's a good Werewolf horror film with a decent amount of gore . You could do better for sure but you could also do a hell of a lot worse , worth a watch if nothing else .
" If you want time buy the magazine . " Entertaining enough but rather shallow .	The Fast and the Furious is set in Los Angeles & starts as undercover cop Brian O'Conner ( Paul Walker ) enters an illegal street race between racers with high performance sports cars , he bets his $80 , 000 car that he'll win but instead loses . Suddenly the cops show up & he manages to save Dominic Toretto ( Vin Diesel ) from being arrested , Brian gains Dominic's trust in an attempt to use his knowledge & contacts to identify & take down a gang of street racers who are hijacking huge container trucks & stealing millions of dollars of electrical goods . . . This American German co-production was directed by Rob Cohen who has a small cameo as the pizza delivery guy & is an entertaining action flick without ever reaching the heights of greatness . The script by Gary Scott Thompson , Erik Bergquist & David Ayer moves along at a reasonable pace & has decent amounts of action but it never quite satisfied me totally in any area . The plot is predictable & pretty standard fare , the twists have little dramatic impact like the revelation that Brian is a cop or that Dominic is behind the hijackings . A lot more could have been done with them . I usually don't take the moral high ground but in the case of The Fast and the Furious I feel I have to considering the age group this will appeal too , I mean it turns the criminal element into hero's which didn't sit well with me especially at the end when the cop is more concerned about the scumbag hijackers than the poor innocent truck driver ! This isn't as action packed as you might like either , sure there's a good opening street race through LA & some good stunts during the final hijack but otherwise it's all show & no substance , just like the cars featured in fact . There are plenty of scenes with high powered cars reeving their engines , plenty of scenes of nicely painted sports cars driving around & plenty of scenes of them breaking the speed limit but it doesn't really amount to much apart from the opening race & the final twenty minutes . The character's are OK if a bit clichéd ( I mean Brian actually starts to respect Dominic after being around him for a while . . . ) , it keeps one interest & it certainly passes the time harmlessly enough without ever being outstanding . Director Cohen does OK & turns in a suitably glossy looking film that will probably appeal to the boy racers out there as it glamorises the notion of street racing , winning at any costs & show's these souped up sports cars in as good a light as just about any film out there . The cars themselves look nice enough for sure & they are a pleasant distraction whenever on screen I suppose , at least they divert attention away from the acting . The film has some style about it for sure , the opening street race for instance when they reach top speeds the lights outside the windows blur into one long bright line & there are other tricks used as well to make a cool sequence . The violence is minimal so there's no need to worry about that . With a supposed budget of about $38 , 000 , 000 I wouldn't call The Fast and the Furious exactly low budget but it's not up there with the 100 million plus Hollywood blockbusters , making $40 , 000 , 000 on it's opening weekend in theatres it did really well & I think it was a bit of a surprise to everyone involved with it . It's well made with some decent CGI computer effects as well as some good old fashion stunt work . I must admit I didn't like the loud electronic dance type music though . The acting is not great , Vin Diesel was paid a cool $2 , 000 , 000 apparently & he's pretty poor , just check out his speech to Brian about his father ! Jordana Brewster & Michelle Rodriguez provide the good looks & do a fine job . The Fast and the Furious is a good solid action thriller , it's not that great in storytelling terms but I think it provides enough cool action , macho moments & fast cars to keep most quiet for 100 odd minutes . Followed by two sequels , 2 Fast 2 Furious ( 2003 ) & The Fast and the Furious : Tokyo Drift ( 2006 ) while a third sequel is currently in production .
Slightly muddled H . P . Lovecraft inspired end of the world horror thriller .	In the Mouth of Madness starts in New York where freelance insurance investigator John Trent ( Sam Neill ) is hired by an insurance firm to check the claim of Arcane Publishing who say that their best-selling horror author Sutter Cane ( Jürgen Prochnow ) has disappeared & is believed to be dead . The insurance firm feel it may all be a publicity scam & send Trent in to uncover the truth either way , after reading Cane's first five novels Trent becomes convinced that it's a con & after some inspired detective work feels he has the answer . The illustrations on the covers of Cane's books when pieced together form a map leading to the town of Hobb's End which is where all of Cane's novels are set . Trent is certain that is where Cane is & drives out there to prove it , however the fiction of cane's books & reality blur into one another as the terrifying things in the novels begin to happen for real including the end of the world & reality as we know it . . . Directed by John Carpenter who apparently calls this his third film in his self titled Apocalypse Trilogy after The Thing ( 1982 ) & Prince of Darkness ( 1987 ) & while I liked a lot of it an equal amount left me rather frustrated & unsatisfied , the potential for something special was here for sure but it doesn't quite work for several reasons . The script by Michael De Luca ( who at the time was President of Production at New Line the company that produced In the Mouth of Madness ) is very H . P . Lovecraft in it's style , ideas about evil forces from beyond reality , the end of the world apocalypse as it's engulfed by slimy monsters from beyond , all the Lovecraft references & the fact the majority of the story is narrated by a patient in a mental institute also comes straight from a Lovecraft novel . The first thirty odd minutes is rather good as the mystery surrounding Sutter Cane is explored & once the action shifts to Hobb's End itself the films gets weirder & weirder as fantasy & reality mix & lots of slimy monsters pop up all over the place . The twist that a very rational cynical man such as Trent is merely a work of fiction made up by Cane to bring about the end of the world is reasonable if a little uninspired while the final twist in which Trent goes into a cinema to watch the film we have just seen made no sense to me at all & ended things on a bit of a downer . The character's are alright although Linda Styles is a bit useless . The plot is interesting for sure , it's something different & tries to be mysterious , scary , gross & surprising & it almost succeeds but several loose ends & a plot that fizzles out as the film progresses stop it from being classic Carpenter in my humble opinion . Quite a lot of fantasy horror from the 80's & 90's did the whole blurring of reality & fiction & specifically focused on books the most popular of which were probably the rather excellent I , Madman ( 1989 ) & the not so excellent The Dark Half ( 1993 ) both of which featured killers from the pages of novels coming to life . There's some really stylish Lovecraftian imagery here with a wall of slimy tentacled creatures chasing Sam Neill being one in particular that stands out . The film has a few creepy moments , there's some impressive monster & creature effects on show although there's not really any gore . There's a good atmosphere & there are definitely a couple of unsettling scenes here but they are few & far between unfortunately . The town of Hobb's End is obviously a reference to Quatermass and the Pit ( 1967 ) in which the alien spaceship is found in a subway station named Hobb's End too . With a supposed budget of about $14 , 000 , 000 this was another box-office failure for Carpenter who just couldn't repeat his earlier critical or financial success he had with films such as Halloween ( 1978 ) & Escape from New York ( 1981 ) . Although set entirely in the US this was actually filmed in Ontario in Canada . The acting varies , Sam Neill is alright but Julie Carmen as Styles is absolutely awful while veteran old timer actors David Warner & Charlton Heston have nice cameos . In the Mouth of Madness is a H . P . Lovecraft inspired end of the world John carpenter directed horror film that tries to mix reality & fantasy to mixed effect really , I thought it was above average for sure but overall the film didn't convince me & it felt a little muddled at times especially that ending .
OK prequel , nothing that special though .	The Texas Chainsaw Massacre : The Beginning starts as a slaughterhouse worker named Sloane ( Leslie Calkins ) makes a mess on the floor as her water breaks , she then proceeds to give birth to a deformed baby which gets put out into a bin where trampy Luda Mae Hewitt ( Marietta Marich ) finds it & decides to take it home & care for it as one of her own . . . Jump forward to 1969 where two brother's Eric ( Matthew Bomber ) & Dean ( Taylor Handley ) along with their girlfriends Chrissie ( Jordana Brewster ) & Bailey ( Diora Biard ) are driving across Texas before the brother's are sent to Vietnam , unfortunately they have an accident when they crash into a cow & then find themselves being robbed at gunpoint by a biker chick ( Emily Kaye ) . Sheriff Hoyt ( R . Lee Emery ) arrives & the four friends think they are saved but he takes them home with him & introduces them to his family including Thomas Hewitt ( Andrew Bryniarski ) who happens to be a deformed cannibalistic chainsaw wielding killer always on the look out for fresh meat . . . Directed by Johnathan Liebesman I thought that this teen slasher film was alright but nothing that special . As usual for most big budget horror these days this exists in a ' R ' rated cut & the much more widely available ' Unrated ' version which adds some dialogue & of course extra gore & violence , I will be basing my comment on the Unrated cut . The sixth Texas Chainsaw Massacre film in the series this isn't my favourite by any stretch of the imagination , in fact I'd say it's my second least favourite after the truly terrible The Return of the Texas Chainsaw Massacre ( 1994 ) . The script by Sheldon Turner feels pretty familiar & despite promising to reveal ' how it all started ' doesn't really add anything to the series apart from showing Leatherface being born in a slaughterhouse & his first few victims , I don't know about anyone else but I was expecting something more , something more meaningful , something shocking , something other than a group of annoying teens being stalked & killed , it just all felt very familiar to me . Nothing about Leatherface's life between him being born & 1969 is touched upon , in fact I think he was given more background in the ' 03 remake ! As a whole it's pretty predictable & ultimately shallow , although to be fair it moves along at a nice pace & never bores , there's some decent gore & torture , the character's are alright especially R . Lee Emery's bad guy who stands out & is just a hoot to watch & listen to & there isn't even a token black guy . One question though , when that fat woman was sitting at the table drinking tea why didn't Bailey scream out or try to attract her attention ? I'm not happy about the ending either , I mean could Leatherface really open the rear door of a car , get in complete with 4 foot long chainsaw , close the door & hide from Chrissie without her noticing ? Personally I have my doubts . . . Director Liebesman does OK but the style & class of the the ' 03 Texas Chainsaw remake is missing , it's well shot but a bit forgettable . There's a nice tension & a dark atmosphere running throughout the film & there are a few decent jump out of your seat type moments . Despite everyone saying how gory this is I was disappointed with it in this department , there's a brief shot of an exploding cow , someones legs are bashed in , there are plenty of beatings , a few people get chainsaws through their body , the skin from someones face is removed in a scene so dark you can hardly see anything , there's a terrific slit throat & someone has both their legs chopped off with a chainsaw , the gore levels sound better than they actually are in truth . With a supposed budget of about $16 , 000 , 000 the film is very well made with high production values , good special effects & suitably grimy looking sets including the slaughterhouse . The acting is pretty good although R . Lee Emery steals every scene he's in as the foul mouthed villain . The Texas Chainsaw Massacre : The Beginning is a decent enough horror film that delivers what most will expect from it but on a personal level I had hoped for something more , something deeper & not just a tired slasher rehash . Worth watching if your a fan or are looking for a simple teen slasher .
" Hey fellas look at that bird will ya ! " Uneven but still a decent enough film .	La Camana del Infierno , also know as The Bell of Hell & A Bell From Hell to English speaking audiences , starts as a troubled young man named John ( Renaud Verley ) is released on probation from a mental institution . John hops on his motorcycle & speeds off to visit his Aunt Marta ( Viveca Lindfors ) & his three attractive Cousins , Esther ( Maribel Martin ) , Teresa ( Nuria Gimeno ) & Maria ( Christine Betzner ) . This isn't a pleasant family reunion though , for Marta had John committed & has been paying his Doctor off monthly to keep him institutionalised in the hope that John will eventually be legally considered insane & therefore his late Mother's fortune would go to her instead of John . As it goes John is a bit of a weirdo , he plays cruel practical for instance but there does seem to be a method to his madness as he devises a plan to murder Marta & his Cousins , but will he be able to go through with it & who will have the last laugh ? This Spanish French co-production was produced & almost directed by Claudio Guerin as on the final day of shooting he fell from the Church tower in which the bell referred to in the title was housed & died , the film was completed by an uncredited Juan Antonio Bardem . The script by Santiago Moncada takes itself extremely seriously & can probably be loosely split into two , the first half of the film is bizarre , boring , slow , surreal nonsense in which nothing particularly exciting happens while the final half of the film feels like a murder thriller , there is no mystery or surprise as everything is revealed as the film goes on . Then we get a totally crap climax with one so-called twist too many , they should have left after they had rung the bell for the first time , anyone who has seen it will know what I mean . Basically I really liked the second half when the exploitation elements kicked in but the first 40 odd minutes are pretty painful stuff , it's strange , disjointed & not much fun to watch . I also have to say that I hate the title A Bell from Hell / The Bell of Hell , when you tell someone not familiar with these types of films that your going to watch something called A Bell from Hell they look at you like your from a different planet , the bell itself isn't from hell , it isn't possessed by the Devil or anything like that & to be honest it's pretty much irrelevant to the story & barely features . Late director Guerin does a nice job here & La Campana del Infierno has a nice style & visual flair to it . The film has a strange atmosphere to it , I can't say I was ever scared or shocked but it has a certain something about it that's hard to describe . The scenes where John's three Cousins are naked hanging up on meat hooks in a basement have a nice'n'nasty exploitative feel to them . There isn't much gore , except that is for the slaughterhouse sequences which are hard to watch if your at all squeamish . Cows are gutted , chopped up , stabbed , have their legs cut off & have their throats slashed open as rivers of blood pour everywhere from various wounds . Forget about much violence , in fact only one person is killed throughout the entire film & even that is 5 minutes before the end . Technically La Campana del Infierno is very good , it's well made & competent throughout . The Spanish locations are nice & make for an interesting backdrop . The acting was OK although since it was dubbed into English it's hard to tell . La Campana del Infierno was saved by it's second half , if they had edited the first 40 odd minutes down to about 10 then this might have made for an effective murder thriller , despite it's demonic sounding title there isn't a great deal of horror in it . As it is it's watchable for sure but I don't think I'd be in any hurry to see it again anytime soon .
Decent Hammer House of Horror episode .	Hammer House of Horror : Children of the Full Moon starts as married couple Tom ( Christopher Cazenove ) & Sarah Martin ( Celia Gregory ) are driving down to Tom's bosses cottage deep in the English countryside , however en-route their car breaks down . They have no choice but to get out & walk , they come across a dirt track which leads to a large house where they are invited to stay the night by Mrs . Ardoy ( Diana Dors ) . At first things seem nice but the large amount of children unnerves them as does the howling outside & when Tom is attacked by a mysterious creature they come to the conclusion something sinister might be going on . . . Children of the Full Moon was episode 8 from this unfairly short lived British horror anthology TV series produced by Hammer studios , this originally aired during November 1980 here in the UK & was the second of two Hammer House of Horror episodes to be directed by Tom Clegg ( along with The House that Bled to Death ) & is far from the series finest 50 odd minutes but I still thought it was alright none the less . The script by Murray Smith starts off at a cracking pace & feels like classic Gothic Hammer horror as a couple break down on a isolated country road & end up in a spooky English mansion that hides a shocking secret & are invited to stay the night but about half way through it changes direction & tone significantly as the story revolves around the supposed mystery of whether Sarah is a Werewolf or not & whether Tom dreamt the whole incident but to be honest it doesn't take a genius to work it out . The short 50 odd minute duration helps keep things moving along & it entertains to an extent but it's just that compared to other's in this series it's not that great , it's worth a watch but nothing particularly special . The low TV budget doesn't help things here , luckily the experience in making feature films probably helped the boys at Hammer turn in a surprisingly cinematic looking show obviously shot on 35mm film & if you keep an eye out during the series you will notice the same locations & props crop up on a regular basis . The locations are nice enough & it's generally well made except for the Werewolf masks which are OK I suppose but not that great an effect . There's not much gore here except a lamb with it's throat bitten out & some blood splatter on an axe . The acting is OK & I love the accents including Diana Dors who made this towards the back end of her career & didn't deserve the ' English Marilyn Monroe ' tag anymore when she appeared in this . Children of the Full Moon is a decent way to spend 50 odd minutes especially if your a horror fan or have an interest in Hammer studios , for me I liked it for sure but considering the other surprisingly excellent episodes in this series Children of the Full Moon pales a bit in comparison .
Not sure what to make of it .	Within the Woods starts as Ellen ( Ellen Sandweiss ) & her boyfriend Bruce ( Bruce Campbell ) take a walk in the woods near the cottage that they & two of their friends Scott ( Scott Speigel ) & Shelly ( Mary Valenti ) have hired for a weekend . They plan on having a picnic & Bruce warns Ellen about the ancient Indian burial ground nearby & not to disturb it , however Bruce takes a sacred knife buried in the ground & ends up possessed by an evil spirit who wants to take revenge on the rest of his friends . . . Written & directed by Sam Raimi Within the Woods is a curious little film , it was made for the bargain basement sum of $1 , 600 specifically by Raimi to show to potential investors who might put up some cash so the full length Book of the Dead later renamed The Evil Dead ( 1982 ) could be made & I guess it worked . Many scenes in Within the Woods are mirrored & perfected in The Evil Dead , from the spirits point-of-view shots to the general story to the same actor's although here Campbell plays the bad guy where as in The Evil dead he became the hero . It is also different in some respects in particular instead of an ancient Book of the Dead the reason behind the evil spirits is an ancient Indian burial ground being violated . It lasts for a few seconds over 30 minutes & to be honest isn't a bad little horror flick with some understandably rough edges . Even though this is fairly impressive everything considered if Raimi had shown me this I still wouldn't have given him any money but then again I'm a tight git . . . Director Raimi is already showing a panache for style & visual flair even on a none existent budget , Within the Woods is technically more impressive & stylish than many legally released horror flicks ! Within the Woods was never meant to be released anywhere & it never has , legally that is so it's hard to rate it as it was never meant to be seen by the public . To be honest I wouldn't say it's even finished , there are obviously sound effects & music cues missing , some of the editing is choppy & it's a touch dark at times but when all said & done it does look pretty good & is watchable . There's some gore here , a man is stabbed in the stomach , someone is stabbed in the neck , someone is stabbed in the back , someone is dismembered with an axe & have their hand sliced off . The special effects are alright actually & again put some legit horror films to shame ! Within the Woods is really only of interest to fans of The Evil Dead & want to see a virtual carbon copy of it , since it was never meant to be released to the public I can't say it was even a finished film but it ain't too bad . Considered to be pretty rare which I doubt taking into account the number of comments on the IMDb , it has more reviews than say Carry On Columbus ( 1992 ) !
Great start , disappointing end .	Hammer House of Horror : The Two Faces of Evil starts as Martin ( Gary Raymond ) & his wife Janet Lewis ( Anna Calder-Marshall ) along with their young son David ( Paul Hawkins ) almost run over a hitchhiker in their car , feeling a bit guilty Martin backs up & gives the hitchhiker a lift but soon regrets it as the hitchhiker turns on Martin & attacks him forcing Martin to crash the car . Janet wakes up in hospital unable to remember much & is told that her husband Martin had some glass stuck in his throat & although fine he cannot talk , David is fine & the hitchhiker was apparently found dead near by . Janet is asked to identify the hitchhikers body which looks exactly like Martin , once home Janet begins to suspect that Martin is no longer the person she married bu instead an evil doppelganger . . . The Two Faces of Evil was was episode 12 from the one & only season of the short lived made-for-TV Hammer House of Horror series & originally aired here in the UK during November 1980 , the second of two Hammer House of Horror episodes to be directed by Alan Gibson ( the first was The Silent Scream ( 1980 ) ) The Two Faces of Evil starts off promisingly enough with a really good opening sequence which grabs you but then tails off into a fairly predictable body snatcher type horror tale before a rather frustrating & abrupt ending which leaves a lot of questions unanswered . The one thing that has impressed me with the Hammer House of Horror series is it's wide variety of subjects & story lines including voodoo , ghosts , haunted homes , werewolves , witches , curses & satanic worship & now we get the phenomenon of evil doppelgangers which is never used or explained with any great conviction & almost seems like an afterthought to explain the terrific opening sequence . In fact it's like someone came up with the opening first & then came up with the rest of the program afterwards to explain it , only thing is they didn't do a very good job . It's watchable enough & definitely has it's moments especially during the first half , at only an hour in length it moves along at a decent pace & I think if you like horror then you should at least enjoy The Two Faces of Evil to some extent although if you don't like horror then there's not much here to get excited about . As usual for the Hammer House of Horror episodes The Two Faces of Evil was obviously shot on 35mm film & as such looks very cinematic , in fact Hammer could have edited some of these stories together & released them theatrically as a Tales from the Crypt ( 1972 ) style horror anthology compilation ( which did indeed happen when they were released on VHS & DVD ) . This is well made with good production values although there's not much horror or gore , there's a bloody wrist stump with no hand attached but nothing else . It starts fairly eerie but towards the end it gets too silly for it's own good & all the tension & scares disappear as a result . The acting is solid & pretty good . The Two Faces of Evil is a good solid entry into the Hammer House of Horror series but it's not up there with the best of them & the ending lets all the build up down . Good but not great .
Not a bad effort at all .	Witchboard is set in the LOs Angeles town of Fairfields & starts at a party thrown by Jim Morar ( Todd Allen ) & his girlfriend Linda Brewster ( Twny Kitaen ) , one of their friends Brandon Sinclair ( Stephen Nichols ) decides to demonstrate the use of a Ouija Board ( as you do ) that he has in his back pocket ( as you would ) , he contacts the spirit of a young boy named David . Linda becomes intrigued by the Ouija Board & gives it a go herself the next day while alone , Linda contacts David & he seems pleasant enough despite being dead . However David's helpfulness soon changes & Linda is soon terrorised by the spirit , Linda's guy Jim doesn't fair any better as his best mate is killed & suspicion falls on him . Supernatural expert Brandon realises that an evil spirit is using the inexperienced & weak willed Linda to enter our world . . . This British American co-production was written & directed by Kevin Tenney & one has to say that Witchboard is a fairly slick , competent & enjoyable supernatural horror film that isn't outstanding or original or brilliant but is a perfectly entertaining way to pass 90 odd minutes especially if your a fan of the horror genre in general . Everything about Witchboard is a cut above the average low budget horror film , from the surprisingly decent character's & dialogue to a script that tries to do something a bit different with somewhat routine inspiration & as such there's a couple of reasonable twist's at the end although in fairness they don't really affect the story that much but it is nice to have them there all the same just to keep the interest levels going . Of course Witchboard is far from perfect , there's a couple of plot-holes like if the axe murderer needed to possess someone who killed Zarabeth & Brandon ? Also I think Jim needs to choose his friends more carefully , I mean I am not being funny here but anyone who will purposely throw a hatchet towards you witch misses you by inches & then laughs probably isn't worth knowing . . . Witchboard looks surprisingly slick , there's some nice photography including a great shot at the end as the camera follows Jim as he falls through a second storey window right down onto a car roof & there's also one or two other very impressive shots that give Witchboard quite a nice visual style . The one area where Witchboard doesn't quite stand up is in the horror & gore department , over the course of 90 odd minutes there are only three kills in it & apart from a cool shot of an axe going into someones head there's little in the way of blood or gore . The distinctive house used in Witchboard has featured in many films & telly show's including Willard ( 1971 ) & the excellent Waxwork ( 1988 ) . With a supposed budget of about $2 , 000 , 000 this has good production values & looks better than the budget might suggest . The acting is also better than one might expect , Todd Allen appears in the sequel in a completely different role while Kathleen Wilhoite as Zarabeth is equally both annoying & amusing at the same time . Witchboard is a lot better than you might expect & while I would stop short of calling it an absolute classic it's definitely an enjoyable slice of 80's supernatural horror that actually holds up very well . Followed by two less successful sequels Witchboard 2 : The Devil's Doorway ( 1993 ) & Witchboard III : The Possession ( 1995 ) .
" Only one thing worse than a Dragon . . . Americans . " It was a nice day until the Reign came . . .	Reign of Fire starts in present day London as 12 year old Quinn Abercromby ( Ben Thornton ) enters a underground construction site to visit his Mother ( a 12 year old wandering around on his own on a dangerous building site without even a hard hat ? Now that must break some rules somewhere . . . ) Karen ( Alice Krige ) . While there one of the workers finds an underground cavern as he drills & sends Quinn inside with a torch to have a look ( again this doesn't seem like these people are following proper safety procedures , does it ? ) where he sees a huge fire-breathing Dragon who toasts everyone down there except Quinn who makes it out alive , just . It's now ' 2020 A . D . ' & Dragons have all but destroyed the entire Earth , only a few small groups of humans survive . One such group is lead by the now adult Quinn ( Christian Bale ) , life is hard as food is scarce , in fighting is rife & the constant threat of a Dragon attack is obviously worrying . One day a troop of American soldiers lead by Denton Van Zan ( Matthew McConaughey ) pulls up outside their camp & ask for shelter which Quinn eventually agrees to . Van Zan reveals he is on a mission that he hopes will bring about the extinction of the Dragon & needs men to go with him & his soldiers , after various attacks by Dragons most of Van Zan's soldiers are wiped out as is Quinn's camp , together with helicopter pilot Alex Jensen ( Izabella Scorupco ) Quinn & Van Zan set off for London for one last attempt to save the human race . . . Directed by Rob Bowman I thought Reign of Fire was a perfectly acceptable big budget Hollywood fantasy / horror / action film but felt a little empty & soulless . The script by Gregg Chabot , Kevin Peterka & Matt Greenberg moves along at a reasonable pace & never becomes overly boring but the story never really engaged or gripped me , I just sort of sat there watching Reign of Fire & admiring it's fantastic CGI Dragon effects but not being that interested in anything else , I was also constantly asking where these soldiers got all the fuel for their tanks & even a helicopter no less ! I only finished watching it a few hours ago & I really can't remember that much about it which is never a good sign . It takes itself with deadly seriousness & some of the macho dialogue & posturing between Quinn & Van Zan particularly when they first meet is just embarrassing to sit through . The notion that millions of Dragons were created by one male is a bit absurd , & why did no one figure out the solution before Van Zan ? Also at the start only the male Dragon was discovered so where did the first female come from for him to mate with ? Then again it's just a film & maybe I'm thinking about it too much . . . Another problem I have with Reign of Fire is it's look , I found it an extremely unappealing film to sit through as Bowman films everything outside with a dull grey ash colour for obvious reasons & when inside he films with a warm yellow glow as everything is mean to be lit by candles . I'm all for certain colour schemes , experimentation & variation but I just found Reign of Fire an incredibly dull & visually unexciting film . Director Bowman creates some good action sequences & there is a definite gritty realistic atmosphere throughout . With a supposed budget of $95 , 000 , 000 technically Reign of Fire is top-notch & has that Hollywood polish about it as you would expect . The production design & sets are very good but the star of the show are the wonderful CGI Dragon effects , although used sparingly they impress throughout . One thing I will say is the Dragon design in Reign of Fire looks almost identical to the Dragon in Dragonslayer ( 1981 ) which isn't a bad thing as such but they just look very similar . The violence is restrained & there is no blood or gore to be found so don't worry about that , there are a few uses of bad language though so maybe it's not suitable for all ages . The acting is OK considering the material . Reign of Fire is a decent watch , I didn't love it but at the same time I didn't hate it either . I will have to sit on the fence a little bit here & say it's probably no more than average with some great Dragon scenes but offset by a couple of plot holes which still bug me even now . Worth a watch if you can catch it on TV for free or rent it cheap .
Sort of fun in a 60's camp sort of way .	Daleks ' Invasion Earth : 2150 A . D . starts late one night in London as constable Tom Campbell ( Bernard Cribbins ) witnesses a theft at a jewellery store , he rushes to find help & stumbles across a police box . He ventures inside & finds it much bigger on the inside than the outside , inside he is greeted by an old scientist named Dr . Who ( Peter Cushing ) , his niece Lousie ( Jill Curzon ) & his young granddaughter Susan ( Roberta Tovey ) . The police box turns out to be a machine which can travel through time & space & Dr . Who decides to take Tom with them as they travel to the year 2150 , just because they can I suppose . Once there they find London in ruins , they quickly discover that the evil Daleks have invaded Earth & plan to turn it into a giant Dalek spaceship . Dr . Who & his companions join a resistance group on Earth in an effort to defeat the Daleks & save the planet . . . This British production was directed by Gordon Flemyng & is an improvement on it's predecessor Dr . Who and the Daleks ( 1965 ) if nothing else . The script is credited to producer & Amicus founder Milton Subotsky with an ' additional material ' credit to David Whitaker & is a pretty fun sci-fi adventure that is both different & similar enough to the BBC TV series to be enjoyable , this was actually a remake of the black and white six part Doctor Who story The Dalek Invasion of Earth ( 1964 ) staring William Hartnell . First off I have to say the comedy sequence where Tom tries to impersonate some Robomen is just plain embarrassing & frankly stupid although I'm glad the makers decided to have everyone call the Doctor simply ' Doctor ' rather than the annoying ' Dr . Who ' as in the first film , the film certainly moves along at a nice pace & is never boring , the Daleks themselves make for very colourful villains although there are several plot holes . First if the Daleks can control people's minds & make them into guards why couldn't they control the miners minds ? Surely that would have been safer than trying to force them to do their bidding ? Then there's the notion that they want to take control of Earth & fly it across the galaxy to their home planet so they can occupy it , right well why don't they just occupy Earth where it is at the moment ? If this is indeed set during the year 2150 why does a rebel have to try & escape London in what looks like a van from the 1940's ? Wouldn't have technology moved on in 200 odd years ? Having said that the plot holes don't really matter that much as this is a fun romp that makes for perfect Saturday afternoon viewing with the kids of all ages . . . Having directed the original Dr . Who and the Daleks the previous year returning director Flemyng does OK here although I'd have liked him to have tried to make the Daleks themselves a bit more menacing , they are OK & no worse than their TV incarnations but they are a little slow & cumbersome looking . The special effects are OK actually , the shots of a half destroyed London are very effective , the Dalek spaceship looks a bit naff though . The sets are very colourful in the Irwin Allen tradition of banks of flashing lights & computer equipment with huge dials & buttons that look horribly dated these days , personally I think they give the film some charm & add to the fun . There are some decent action scenes as well . This film was apparently part financed by a British company who made a breakfast cereal named ' Sugar Puffs ' ( yeah , I remember the adverts with the Honey Monster ! I never liked the actual cereal though , I was more of a Coco-Pops man . . . ) & as such there is a long lingering shot of a poster advertising them in what must be one of the earliest examples of product placement ! Technically the film is fine , it has brightly coloured garish sets which look dated but are fun to look at . Shot at Shepperton Studios in Surrey here in England & on location . The acting is OK , Cushing is always watchable , Cribbins is better known for his roles in the Carry On films while Tovey as Susan isn't as annoying as I'd thought she would be . Daleks ' Invasion Earth : 2150 A . D . is a fun 60's sci-fi romp which isn't the best film ever made but is entertaining none the less . I've certainly seen worse , worth watching if you like the TV series or just want some light hearted sci-fi fun . A third film in the series based on the six part Doctor Who story The Chase ( 1965 ) was planned but never got made .
Not too bad but not brilliant .	Money Train is set in New York where Christmas is fast approaching , subway decoy squad cop Charlie ( Woody Harrelson ) owes $15 , 000 of gambling debts to Mr . Brown ( Scott Sowers ) a very unpleasant mobster . Brown wants his money or he'll hurt him , Carlie's foster brother & fellow New York subway decoy squad cop John ( Wesley Snipes ) gives him the $15 , 000 but Charlie loses it . If that wasn't bad enough after a cock-up at work both Charlie & John are sacked by their heartless boss Chief Donald Patterson ( Robert Blake ) , out of options Charlie decides to rob the money train that travels from station to station collecting the revenue . . . Directed by Joseph Ruben this big budget comedy thriller has a pretty bad reputation but I have to say I quite liked it for what it was . The script by Doug Richardson & David Loughery initially sounds like a straight heist film in the vein of The Italian Job ( 1969 ) or The First Great Train Robbery ( 1979 ) but the majority of the film feels much more like a buddy buddy mismatched partner thriller , the signs are there for all to see . The mismatched partners with one black & one white which leads to all sorts of amusing racial gags , the fact they are both on the edge & have personal issues but are basically good guy's , there's a pointless romantic subplot & there's several bad guy's that they bring down . There are lots of dialogue scenes all of which seem to cram as many ' F ' swear words in as possible , the subplots with Jennifer Lopez & the Torch villain are not needed , Charlie's gambling debts are all but forgotten about by the end & there are scene that are very hard to believe . A cop turning up drunk for work for instance is instant dismissal , starting a fight with your fellow police officers would also get you the sack & there's just not much factual accuracy here . Having said that I quite liked it , I did think certain parts of it were amusing , some of the one-liners & dialogue worked , there's are some impressive fights & a cool train crash at the end although the actually robbery isn't that clever or well thought out . The character's are a mixed bag , Charlie & John are likable but it's them who decided to rob the train in the first place , it's them who initially put other passengers lives at risk not Patterson , then when they get away with it we are supposed to happy for them because even though what happened was their doing , they have stolen money & caused a huge crash & immense damage . Director Ruben does alright , I must admit I think the opening titles are very nice to look at as there are alternating aerial shots of a neon lit New York & some moody scenes of a festive New York going about it's business . There's not much action until the end , a few motorbike stunts & a few fights is about it but they are good nicely violent fights though . The out of control train scenes at the end look good although the final crash is obviously a model . The pace is uneven , until the last forty odd minutes it's a fairly slow film but it did keep my interest with some funny dialogue & a fairly engaging story . With a supposed budget of about $68 , 000 , 000 Money Train was an absolute disaster at the box-office for Columbia Pictures , the film opened at number 4 at the end of 1995 to a first weekend gross of just over $10 million as it went up against Toy Story ( 1995 ) , Goldeneye ( 1995 ) & Ace Ventura : When Nature Calls ( 1995 ) all of which opened at or around the same time as Money Train which tanked & ended it's theatrical run with a paltry $35 million . Ouch . The acting is alright with Snipes & Harrelson putting in likable performances while Jennifer Lopez is as awful as ever & luckily she has no more than a cameo role & as such doesn't ruin things that much . Money Train was a disaster at the box-office , it's generally disliked by both critics & the public but I have to say I quite liked it , it isn't any sort of masterpiece but it just about kept my interest & came away from it feeling entertained & feeling I had fun . Worth a watch if you can watch it on telly for free .
Mildly entertaining Aliens clone , it could have been worse .	Alien Lockdown starts as high ranking military geezer General Anslow ( Martin Kove ) orders a bunch of marines into a top secret Government laboratory to hunt down & kill an escaped genetically created creature that had been developed to be used in battle & become the ultimate predator . Commander Talon ( Michelle Goh ) & her team enter the isolated facility & find two survivors , ex-military convict Charlie Dryfus ( James Marshall ) & the scientist who created the creature Dr . Woodman ( John Savage ) . Dr . Woodman has sabotaged all the facilities major operating systems , he deliberately set the creature free & plans on protecting his creation . Talon & her team must kill the creature & clean up any loose ends before the facility is blown to kingdom come in 12 hours . . . This made-for-TV sci-fi horror film was directed by Tim Cox & is yet another Nu Image creature feature although to be fair it's a decent enough time waster that isn't anything special but isn't too bad & it's better than a lot of Nu Image's generic creature feature flicks . The script by Ross Helford & T . M . Van Ostrand is basically an Aliens ( 1986 ) rip-off , you know in writing comments for horror & sci-fi films it's incredible how many times I've written the words ' Aliens rip-off ' which says just how influential James Camerons brilliant film actually is considering the amount of other films that blatantly steal from it . In the case of Alien Lockdown there's the troop of American marines , the initial battle where many are ambushed & picked off unawares while their screams are heard over the intercoms by the other character's , there's the scene when the creature crawls through the ceiling as a means of surprise as well as numerous other scenes which remind heavily of Aliens . To be fair this moves along at a reasonable pace , it never bores to the point of distraction , the character's are OK & there are some nice moments in it . Alien Lockdown is nothing original but I still quite liked it all the same . Director Cox does a very good job here & the film is actually pretty stylish as it's lit in cool blue & green hues which look visually interesting . He manages to generate some tension , there's a decent atmosphere & some reasonable action scenes . The creature itself looks very , very good & is best described as an Alien with it's elongated head & exo-skeleton crossed with a Predator with it's claw like mandibles on it's face in particular . Most of the special effects for it are created with a man in a rubber suit which I always prefer to rubbishy CGI computer effects , there are also loads of baby creatures which CGI is used for although to be fair they look very good as well . There's some gore here , there are various dead bodies in different states of mutilation like having been torn in half & having limbs missing . There is a shot of the creature eating someones intestines & luckily the filmmakers weren't shy with the fake blood . Technically the film is fine & considering it's a Nu Image production it's rather impressive with nice cinematography , decent sets & neat special effects . As usual for these Nu Image productions this was shot in Sofia in Bulgaria . The acting is alright but nothing special & it's not like the actor's had a lot to work with , Martin Kove is the ' name ' actor . Alien Lockdown is a decent cross between Aliens & Predator ( 1987 ) & while it isn't anything original it's perfectly passable sci-fi horror entertainment , it is what it is & doesn't try to be anything else . Worth watching if you can find it cheap or catch it on TV .
" There's a whole city waiting for my help , unfortunately it's a lost city which makes it harder to find . " Actually it's not too bad if your in the right mood .	Hercules and the Lost Kingdom starts with a messenger ( Alex Beasley ) locating Hercules ( Kevin Sorbo ) & asking for his help to free the lost kingdom of Troy from the evil reign of the ' Queen of the Gods ' & the evil Blue Priest ( Nathaniel Lees ) . Hercules accepts & after some advice from his Father Zeus ( Anthony Quinn ) about how to find Troy he sets off on his quest . On his way Hercules saves a young woman named Deianerira ( Renee O'Connor ) from being sacrificed & takes her along with him , Hercules first task is to find Queen Omphale ( Elizabeth Hawthorne ) & a compass she has that will point the way to Troy . Hercules & Deianerira also have to face gangs of thugs , giant sea monsters & ninja's in purple capes & joke shop masks on the way to liberate the lost kingdom of Troy ! This American , New Zealand co-production was directed by Harley Cokeliss & is one of six feature length made for TV episode of the popular Hercules : The Legendary Journeys ( 1995 - 1999 ) , well I think so anyway , it followed Hercules and the Amazon Women ( 1994 ) & preceded Hercules : The Legendary Journeys - Hercules and the Circle of Fire ( 1994 ) & I have no idea how this compares as I've not seen any of the other's or indeed any of the original TV series . The script by Christian Williams is good natured , light hearted fun , if you don't take it too seriously then quite a lot of fun can be had & even contains some half decent mildly amusing dialogue . It moves along at a nice pace although as a whole the story feels a little empty with Hercules not having much trouble finding Troy & not encountering much resistance once there . Having said that I tend to think it's squarely aimed at pre-teen children with very slapstick fights & comedy sound effect music , suits me down to the ground then . . . The character's are thin & undeveloped but then this isn't trying to win any Oscars is it ? I would have liked a better bad guy as well , everyone likes a cool bad guy to hate & Hercules and the Lost Kingdom does itself no favours by not having one . Since this is made for TV it isn't going to have the production values of a Hollywood blockbuster , the cinematography is bland & unexciting , the effects are surprisingly decent especially a pretty good sea monster that doesn't get to do much unfortunately , the ply-wood sets & tea cloth costumes look a little on the cheap side though . The violence is as tame as it gets & there aren't many fights anyway . The acting is of not very high calibre as one would expect . Hercules and the Lost Kingdom is a perfectly entertaining & fun way to pass 90 odd minutes if your in the right mood & like this sort of medieval fantasy adventure stuff . Worth a watch for all ages .
" If you value your life I suggest you leave me alone . " I thought it was OK .	976-Evil starts with a dodgy game of cards where Leonard Johnson whose nickname is Spike ( Patrick O'Bryan ) loses his Harley to local thug Marcus ( J . J . Cohen ) & his gang , Spike refuses to hand his bike over & says he will have the monetary equivalent tomorrow . Back home Spike finds an advertisement for something called a ' Horrorscope ' which you have to phone 976 Evil to hear your horoscope , Spike decides to give it a go & the resultant advice turns out to be the solution to him keeping his Harley . Spike is hooked but as he continues to phone the number the messages become more menacing , meanwhile Spikes nerdy cousin Hoax ( Stephen Geoffreys ) finds the card & also decides to phone the number which results in advice about how to pick a good looking bird up . Much to Hoax's surprise it works a treat but thug Marcus & his gang show up & ruins things , after this somewhat embarrassing & humiliating experience Hoax continues to phone the number but receives advice on Satanic rituals & the more Hoax calls 976 Evil the gates of hell begin to open in Hoax's house & he becomes possessed by evil forces which turn him into a brutal Demonic killer . . . Directed by Robert Englund I personally thought 976-Evil was a decent time waster & a pretty watchable horror film . The script by Brian Helgeland & Rhet Topham moves along at a fair pace although it does drag in a couple of places & it does take itself a little seriously at times although to it's credit it is something a bit different , I mean it doesn't always work brilliantly but at least I didn't sit there thinking I'd seen it all before already like so many horror films & I wasn't bored either . Most of the character's are actually quite likable & well fleshed out except Hoax's mum Lucy ( Sandy Dennis ) who is awful as an overbearing religious fanatic . The story itself is fairly engaging & entertaining although it perhaps could have done more with the basic premise than it did & two early death scenes seem so unconnected & come & go so quickly they could almost be from another film . 976-Evil isn't a masterpiece by any stretch of the imagination but it's better than a lot of horror films out there & it has a certain something about it that manages to distinguish it from the crowd . Director Englund is far better known to horror film audiences the world over as the child murderer Freddy Krueger from A Nightmare on Elm Street ( 1984 ) & it's numerous subsequent sequels . 976-Evil was Englund's first theatrical feature & after a bit of a battering from the critics he has only just completed his second directorial effort Killer Pad ( 2007 ) which is currently in post-production . He does a more than acceptable job actually despite not being able to resist those Freddy Krueger inspired one-liners & puns towards the end ( although there is a cool one involving a game of cards & two ripped out hearts ) , the film is pretty stylish , well made & uses lots of neon lighting to give it a distinctive look & feel . Generally speaking it's low on proper scares but it has that 80's horror film vibe about it , there's also some decent gore . Someone has their hand cut off with a knife , there is a scene of a couple of cats feeding on someone's intestine's , there are ripped out hearts , slashed faces , spurting blood , someone is impaled on a neon lit sign ( more neon ? ) & people burnt alive . Technically 976-Evil is surprisingly good , the special effects are fine , the cinematography & lighting is cool & it's well made throughout . The acting is also pretty good , except the terrible Sandy Dennis & her almost as terrible hair-dos . 976-Evil isn't the greatest film ever made but it's a decent effort that I enjoyed watching , it won't be the best horror film you've ever watched but I doubt it'll be the worst either . Personally I think it's well worth a watch if you can find a copy going cheap somewhere or catch it on late-night cable TV . It spawned the sequel 976-Evil 2 : The Astral Factor ( 1991 ) which I will be watching & reviewing within the next week or so . . .
" Your my only friend Mother , you know that . " 2 quid for a play-about in the back of a truck ? ! I wish they charged that these days .	The Fiend starts at a meeting of a strict religious cult known as the ' Christian Children Evangelical Crusade ' whose sermons are performed by a nut-case minister ( Patrick Magee ) who is as fanatical & crazy as they come . One of the congregation is missing , that of Kenny Wemys ( Tony Beckley ) who happens to be a serial killer , his strict religious Mother Birdy ( Ann Todd ) has taught Kenny that sex is evil so Kenny becomes a messed up avenging angel type character as he stalks the streets & alleyways of London in search of morally corrupt girls like prostitutes who he then brutally murders . Kenny also likes to tape record his handiwork & listen to the tapes back home which is used as a base for his Mother's religious sect . District nurse Brigitte Lynch ( Madeleine Hinde ) pays regular visits to the Wemys house & becomes both concerned & suspicious about Kenny & his Mother so ask's her reporter sister Patricia ( Suzannah Leigh ) to do some investigating with the possibility of a big story for her , Patricia soon discovers the shocking truth but will she live long enough to tell anyone . . . This British production was produced & directed by Robert Hartford-Davis & is an OK watch I suppose but I didn't think it was brilliant or anything approaching it . First off I have to mention that a prostitute in The Fiend clearly says that she charges a mere £2 for a ' play-about ' in the back of a truck , well all I can say is that you wouldn't get prices like that anymore , bleedin ' hell that's as cheap as chips , that's inflation for you I guess . The script by Brian Comport takes itself very seriously & moves along at a fair pace , it has a pleasing amount of exploitation elements with it's fair share of dark alleyways , prostitutes , religious nut-jobs , murders & classic cockney dialogue but the story as a whole didn't quite grip or engage me enough , I never really cared about anything or anyone on screen & for the first hour or so The Fiend is all set-up with a few decent murders but then it's almost as if Comport knew he had to wrap things up quickly & introduced the female reporter to uncover the truth just so they had a convenient way to round the story off . The nut-case minister doesn't really feature until the end either when everything sort of comes together , oh & what happened to the CID inspector ( David Lodge ) ? I mean the film starts off with him as the investigating officer dealing with the murders & then features him again in one more scene about half way through questioning a suspect after which he completely totally & utterly disappears from the rest of the film , as do the police as a whole . I suppose that The Fiend is trying to say something about religious fanatical-ism & the power it has over some people , unfortunately it means little as I think anyone watching The Fiend will be more interested in the murders , violence & nudity rather than any heavy handed moral message , I know I was . The Fiend is a decent exploitation film although I found it a bit dull & I couldn't really get into the somewhat erratic story or character's . Director Hartford-Davis does a good job & The Fiend has a really sleazy atmosphere to it , from the dirty alleyways & backstreet's of London , prostitution , murder , nudity as every victim is naked at some point or other & just the whole look & feel of the film which has to be put down to the grimy , oily , dirty , nasty , depressing , grey London location shooting , I live in the UK & things haven't improved that much . . . There's a fair amount of nudity but the violence isn't as strong as you may think , there's not much blood in it that's for sure . Some punches , a strangulation , a few dead bodies with one hanging up on a meat hook & that's about it actually . Technically The Fiend is solid British exploitation at it's best , it's well made & has a great sleazy feel to it . However , the gospel style songs that the congregation sing are cringe inducing . The acting isn't up to much , Magee lets his eyebrows & moustache do the acting , Beckley appeared in films such as The Italian Job ( 1969 ) , Get Carter ( 1971 ) & Revenge of the Pink Panther ( 1978 ) while all the females in the cast are pretty cute . The Fiend is a film that I thought was OK , it kept me watching until the end but it didn't really grab me & as a result I wasn't that interested in it or where it was going . The sleaziness of it is worth checking out since they just don't make ' em like this anymore . Worth a watch but nothing spectacular .
" If I wasn't having such a shtty day I'd kill ya ' right now . " Decent creature feature .	Mosquito starts as a small alien spacecraft lands in a state park swamp , a hatch opens & the alien inside tries to get out but dies . Soon Mosquitos land on the dead alien & start to drink it's alien DNA filled blood . . . Megan ( Rachel Loiselle ) is a new state park ranger & is one her way to her new job with her boyfriend Ray ( Tim Lovelace ) when they have an accident & their car is put out of action . They manage to hitch a lift with meteorologist Parks ( Steve Dixon ) who is on the lookout for a meteorite that apparently landed in the area recently , once at the state park they find nothing but carnage with dead bodies strewn everywhere . The trio soon find out that giant mutated Mosquitos are on the loose & need plenty of fresh human blood to survive . . . Co-written & directed by Gary Jones this appears to be a throwback & / or homage to the giant bug flicks from the 50's & 60's & while it's no masterpiece it's not a bad little film at all . The script by Jones , cinematographer Tom Chaney & Steve Hodge doesn't take itself too seriously & if you take it as intended can be quite a fun ride at times . The pace is pretty good , it doesn't lag too badly & there's plenty of on screen action . The character's are OK if not particularly memorable although some of the dialogue is stiff & awkward at times , I suppose my biggest problem with Mosquito is that it's rather predictable & it's a bit repetitive . The main group of character's are attacked by hordes of giant mutated Mosquitos in a state park & that's basically the entire film until the end , I'd have liked a bit more variety & less running around doing nothing in particular . Still , it's a fairly entertaining way to pass 90 odd minutes , for what it sets out to do & be it works fine , most creature feature fans should enjoy it & it's definitely better than 99 % of those Sci-Fi Channel made creature feature type films like Python ( 2000 ) if nothing else . One more thing , when they set the timer at the end for three minutes to blow the gas lines a hell of a lot longer than three minutes actually elapse before the flame ignites ! Director Jones does alright here on a minuscule budget & he also went on to direct a couple more giant creature feature films with the rather fun Spiders ( 2000 ) & the distinctly less impressive Crocodile 2 : Death Swamp ( 2002 ) . The Texas Chainsaw Massacre ( 1974 ) fans will be pleased with an amusing reference to that film as Gunnar Hansen who played Leatherface in it plays a bank-robber here who at the end fights off the giant Mosquitos with a huge chainsaw which he quips ' I haven't held one of these in over twenty years ' ! The special effects are a mixed bag really , some of them are extremely impressive while at other times they are pretty poor & unfortunately as audiences we generally remember the poor ones rather than the good ones . The opening shots in space of the alien ship are brilliant & look great , the Mosquitos themselves look cool as well but it's just some of the effects when they have to fly & move that either the budget or expertise wasn't there . There's not much gore here , there are a few dead bodies sucked dry of blood , someones eyes poke out on stalks & then explode , there are a few close-up shots of the Mosquitos proboscis entering flesh & that's about it . There's only one scene with any nudity in it as well . It's amazing to think Mosquito had a budget of about $200 , 000 because some of the special effects as I've already mentioned are very impressive especially the opening spaceship sequence & there's a great scene of a farmhouse being blown to bits at the end that would rival any Hollywood action blockbuster . Shot on location in some woods in Detroit in Michigan . The acting isn't that great , in fact it's pretty poor at times . Mosquito is a fun little creature feature , I was very impressed with some of the special effects while other's left a lot to be desired . I liked it , it wasn't a masterpiece , it's not deep or meaningful & it certainly won't change your life but it will probably entertain you for 90 odd minutes & that's all you can really ask for .
" You know I never read any of his books , I just watched all those old Vincent Price things on TV . " Different but doesn't quite work .	Descendant starts in the 19th Century as Frederick Usher ( Jeremy London ) snaps , he beats his girlfriend Emily Hedgerow ( Katherine Heigl ) , ties her to the bedposts & then proceeds to cut out her heart . . . Jump forward to the present where Ethan Poe ( Jeremy London again ) writes horror novels for a living & it helps that he happens to be a descendant of legendary horror author Edgar Allan Poe . Ethan is currently in the small town of Tennison attending a seminar about his illustrious ancestor whom he doesn't have particularly high opinion of , it's here that Ethan is introduced to Ann Hedgerow ( Katherine Heigl again ) by their mutual friend Lisa ( Whitney Dylan ) , Ann has recently lost her Mother & has her Brother Keifer ( Matt Farnsworth ) stalking her so she is feeling a little vulnerable . Both Ann & Ethan are attracted to each other , a romance begins to blossom & Ann invites Ethan to stay at her house to finish off his latest novel . However the town is stunned by the discovery of a murdered prostitute named Camille Lane ( Cheryl Dent ) , police officer Deputy John Burns ( Nick Stabile ) , who just happens to be a personal friend of Ann's , is investigating & becomes suspicious of Ann's new house guest . . . Co-written , co-produced & co-directed by Kermit Christman along with Del Tenney who also executive produced I have to give Descendant some credit for trying something a bit different but in the end it doesn't quite work . The script by Christman & William Katt , who appears in the film , starts off with a bang as Emily has her heart cut out but as soon as you realise that Heigl reappears as Ann & London as Ethan you know exactly where the film is going to end up & if you don't I have no idea why because you should . Then there's the murders , for a start the killer is totally obvious & the film makes no attempt to try & fool the viewer with red-herrings or other suspects despite the fact that they aren't revealed until the end . Then there's the fact they aren't very good at killing people , out of their three victims two don't die straight away . Then there's the terrible climax where , amongst other things , the killer stops Ann from escaping in her car by blocking the road , OK fine . So Ann jumps out of her car & runs off into the nearby wood to try & escape , again not a problem . But then Ann stumbles across her Mother's dead body , for a start it wouldn't be perfectly preserved & secondly out of all the directions & places she could have run too she had to go straight to the point where her Mother was lying within an entire wood or forest or whatever it was , the chances of that happening are almost statistically impossible ! There's a supernatural element that's never clarified although I just like to think Ethan was seeing things . On a positive note it's certainly different & kept me watching until it's end , the character's are decent but some of them felt very forced like Keifer who is there merely to be an aggressor , cause trouble & nothing else . Director's Tenny & Christman drop a few Poe references in throughout for eagle eyed viewers to spot like shots of a raven , someone being buried alive along with various mentions of his work . There's not much violence , the opening scene is quite strong but after that it's pretty tame with just a dead body & someone being impaled on a wooden pole . Technically Descendant is pretty good despite it's obvious low budget of about $650 , 000 , it's well made & has some nice cinematography . The acting was OK & Heigl is a bit of a babe which makes it a bit easier to watch . . . Descendant has an interesting central idea that gets lost & ultimately goes nowhere . The murder mystery elements are severely lacking & the ending is so signposted & predictable it disappoints that the filmmakers didn't put a bit more effort & thought into it . I think it's worth a watch as it's different & I really wanted to like it because of that but in the end Descendant just doesn't come together in a satisfying manner .
" Your not so hot yourself . . . you fart in your sleep . " Not bad but not brilliant .	Shrooms is set in Ireland & starts as three couples , Tara ( Lindsey Haun ) & Jake ( Jack Huston ) , Holly ( Alice Greczyn ) & Troy ( Max Kasch ) plus Lisa ( Maya Hazen ) & Bluto ( Robert Hoffman ) set off to spend a weekend in the Irish wilderness Shrooming & having fun . However things don't turn out as planned as first Bluto is found dead , then it quickly becomes clear that someone or something is killing them off one-by-one . Is it just all a horrible hallucination ? Could it have anything to do with the closed rundown insane asylum nearby ? Will anyone survive to tell the tale ? Who knows . . . This Irish production was directed by Paddy Breathnach & is the only Irish horror film I can think off right now , not that makes one iota of difference . Anyway , the script by Pearse Elliott which is a teen slasher murder mystery ( forget The Blair Witch Project ( 1999 ) comparison's as besides being set in some woods Shrooms has nothing in common with it at all ) to me had a really cool concept & was fairly original in some of things it tried to do . I have read a lot of negative comments about Shrooms & everyone is entitled to their opinion but anyone who says this is the worst horror film ever made is clearly insane , as a mainstream film in a multiplex cinema then I doubt it's going to turn many heads or break any box-office records & in fact I'm surprised it has been granted a theatrical release here in the UK at all . If , like me , you love the horror genre & have low enough expectations I'm pretty sure you'll like Shrooms . I thought it was well written , the character's are pretty good , there is some amusing dialogue which helps make the slower sections a bit more fun & there's a cool twist ending . Right , again I have read many comments which state the ending is predictable . I'm sorry but that's bull , it's all very well & good to be wise after the event but I would be willing to bet that if I stopped Shrooms halfway through & asked the average film goer to tell me what is going to happen at the end they wouldn't be able to . I thought the ending was quite clever & very satisfying , I just think it's something people who don't like Shrooms can take a cheap shot at for no particular reason . Also it's very noticeable just how short Shrooms is , cut out the end credits which no-one sits through anyway & it lasts for a mere 75 minutes which is short . Director Breathnach starts out at a steady pace with not much happening for the first 30 odd minutes but then it doesn't let up until the twist ending which I still maintain is good . The film looks gorgeous , obviously shot on proper 35mm film it's really nice to see a low budget horror not shot on a digital camcorder & in full 2 : 35 : 1 widescreen with nice steady cinematography where you can actually see whats going on . The film has a good atmosphere with some striking scenes set in a fog enshrouded woods , ponds with tall reeds & a run down asylum . Now , one of the things I don't like about Shrooms is that there isn't any gore . Some may say films don't have to be gory which is fine but I think some good gore scenes would have helped Shrooms a lot , it became frustrating as not one single person is shown being killed on screen & therefore there's not much pay-off . There's no gore , no violence & no nudity , disappointing . Also , for a film whose central premise is about drug taking there is very little drug usage in Shrooms although there are some ' tripping ' scenes including a funny talking foul mouthed cow . Technically Shrooms is fine , in fact it's very impressive & much better looking than most recent low budget horror crap . It's just a shame it's so bloodless . The acting is variable but the leading lady Lindsey Haun is actually rather good . Shrooms isn't brilliant by any stretch of the imagination & I have absolutely no problem in saying that but I am a little bit fed up with all the ' this is the worst horror film ever ' type comments on here because it's simply not true & it's as simple & straight forward as that . Most horror fans will probably like it to an extent , horror haters will probably not .
Standard early eighties slasher film , but it's good of it's type and overall I liked it .	Halloween II opens with the on screen caption ' Haddonfield , Illinois , October 31st , 1978 ' and the song Mr . Sandman playing in the background . We pick up just before the original Halloween ( 1978 ) left off and after a short recap we are into the main title credit sequence , it features the cool Halloween theme ( by John Carpenter and Alan Howarth ) with a pumpkin in the left hand side of the screen . As the credits roll it gets bigger and bigger , eventually splitting open and revealing a skull inside . I must admit I thought this opening credit sequence is cool , not enough thought goes into them usually . Anyway , on with the film . Micheal Myers ( Dick Warlock ) was not killed when Dr . Sam Loomis ( Donald Pleasence ) shot him six times in the chest . Myers wanders the neighbourhood , he steals a knife from a Mrs . Elrod's ( Lucille Benson ) kitchen . He kills a young girl named Annie Brackett ( Nancy Kyes as Nancy Loomis ) who happens to be the daughter of the local Sheriff , Leigh Brackett ( Charles Cyphers ) . Along with Dr . Loomis , Deputy Gary Hunt ( Hunter Von Leer ) is now even more determined to capture Myers . Laurie Strode ( Jamie Lee Curtis ) , the survivor from the original Halloween , is taken to Haddonfield Memorial Hospital to receive treatment . A masked man is knocked down and killed in Haddonfield , the authorities think it may be Myers and await dental conformation as the body is badly burnt . This gives the real Myers a chance to slip through the relaxed police presence and go after Laurie . Laurie has been seen by Dr . Frederick Mixter ( Ford Rainey ) and is placed on the ward under the supervision of head nurse Mrs . Alves ( Gloria Gifford ) and her nurses , Jill Franco ( Tawny Moyer ) , Janet Marshall ( Ana Alicia ) and Karen Bailey ( Pamela Susan Shoop ) . One of the paramedics who brought Laurie in , Jimmy Lloyd ( Lance Guest ) recognises her from school and decides to stay with her , his mate Budd ( Leo Rossi ) instead decides to try and have sex with the nurses , I'm with Budd on this one ! Mrs . Alves discovers that the phones aren't working and sends the security guard Mr . Garrett ( Cliff ' Fatty ' Emmich ) to have a look . Myers puts an axe in his head and sets about finding and killing Laurie , and anyone who gets in his way ! Meanwhile it turns out that the dead body belonged to a teenage kid named Bennett Tramer ( Jack Verbois ) and that Myers is still on the loose . After a fellow Doctor , Marion Chambers lets lip some restricted information about Laurie and Micheal , Loomis realises that all Myers wants to do is kill Laurie and sets off for the hospital . But will he be too late ? Directed by Rick Rosenthal I quite liked this . The script by John Carpenter and Debra Hill is a little clichéd and routine , but it does what it does rather well . It has a fair body count and some decent gore and good special effects , a hypodermic needle in an eye , someone drowned in scalding hot water , an axe in a head , a burnt corpse , stabbings and a slit throat . It moves along at a fair pace and I really liked the way it picked up from the original and continued straight on with the story , in fact you could probably edit both of them together and get one long film . Acting is OK , but Jamie Lee Curtis seems underused especially during the first hour when she's just a patient in a hospital bed doing nothing in particular . Pleasence seemed to ramble on a little too much as well . Technically the film is solid , music , editing , sets and photography . But why set it in the darkest and most underpopulated hospital on Earth ? ! Why only three nurses for the entire hospital , I've heard of staff shortages but this is ridiculous ! Why , apart from the little girl at the start with a razor blade in her lip , are there no other patients ? I thought this was a good continuation of the Halloween story and a worthy sequel , worth a watch for horror fans although casual viewers may find it a little dark and silly at times . Decent enough .
If you do want to watch this make sure its the uncut version .	This movie starts with two tourists on a small greek island being killed by someone , or something . We are then introduced to several more tourists who happen to have a boat and are cruising the islands . They decide to travel to this particular island because a woman has asked them for a ride and since they broke her camera they agree . When they arrive they find the islands small village deserted except for a mysterious woman who disappears . Attempting to return to their ship , they find it has drifted away from the shore and realise they are stuck on this seemingly deserted island . The rest of the story is pretty obvious and straight forward , typical stalk ' n ' slash material . There are two versions of this movie available . The original cut is called anthropophagous and then theres an american produced version called the grim reaper which cuts all the decent gore scenes out , changes the opening titles to accommodate the name change and replaces the original music , for some unknown reason I cant figure out . I have seen both versions and anthropophagous is far superior to the grim reaper . Having said that neither are very good . The first half is quite slow , the second half picks up a little but is still poor even by low budget italian gore film standards . The greek locations are nice and certainly different for this type of movie , but when all said and done this movie sucks . Dont bother with this one whatever its called .
" The best way to cheat death . . . is to create life " - Victor Frankenstein .	Mary Shelley's Frankenstein begins with some scrolling text that reads ' the dawn of the Nineteenth Century . A world on the brink of revolutionary change . Alongside political and social upheaval , scientific advances that would profoundly change the lives of all . The lust for knowledge had never been greater . Among the pioneers , Captain Robert Walton , an explorer , obsessed with reaching the North Pole . As the prize drew closer his voyage would uncover a story to strike terror in the hearts of all who would venture into the unknown . . . ' An on screen caption informs us that it's the ' Artic Sea 1794 ' , a boat is tossed about by giant waves during a ferocious storm . The crew spot an iceberg , despite their best attempts the boat becomes grounded on an icepack & completely frozen unable to move . Captain Robert Walton ( Aidan Quinn ) orders his men to free the vessel . As they work a shadowy figure walks towards them out of the mist , it's a Dr . Victor Frankenstein ( co-producer & director Kenneth Branagh ) . But there is also something else out there , something both hideous & dangerous . Inside the Captain's quarters Frankenstein begins to tell a tale , a tragic & unbelievable tale . . . A tale which starts in ' Geneva 1773 ' , Victor lives in a very big posh house & is the young teenage son of famous physician Baron Frankenstein ( Ian Holm ) & his wife Caroline ( Cherie Lunghi ) who also have an adopted daughter named Elizabeth ( Helena Boham Carter ) & a natural daughter named Justine ( Trevyn McDowell ) . ' Three years later ' , Victor is studying to become a Doctor , like his Father . His Mother is expecting a baby but dies during childbirth , this is Victor's first experience of death & leaves a big impression on him . Victor & his adopted sister Elizabeth are now engaged to be married after Victor returns from University to further his education & research . Now it's ' Ingolstadt 1793 ' , Victor arrives at the University of Ingolstadt & almost immediately upsets one of his teachers Professor Krempe ( Robert Hardy ) with his unorthodox ideas , another teacher named Professor Waldman ( John Cleese ) looks & listens on in the shadows . Victor befriends another medical student named Henry Clerval ( Tom Hulce ) as he continues to upset the establishment with his ideas . Professor Waldman decides to have words with Victor , Waldman also shows him some of his experiments that regard the re-animation of dead tissue with electricity . Victor is fascinated & when Waldman is murdered he finds his notes & decides to save Waldman's brain by transplanting it into another body & bringing it back to life . Victor succeeds , but only in creating a twisted vengeful creature ( associate producer Robert De Niro ) with only one thing on his newly transplanted mind , revenge against the man who created him . . . Starring , co-produced & directed by Kenneth Branagh I thought this was a good solid adaptation of Mary Shelley's famous novel Frankenstein by screenwriter's Steph Lady & Frank Darabont . It has wonderful production design credited to Tim Harvey , Frankenstein's laboratory equipment & dark brooding Gothic surroundings have surely never looked better . The Swiss locations look beautiful as well . I didn't think the cinematography by Roger Pratt was particularly special though & the film as a whole looked a little flat & unadventurous . The acting is good by all concerned , although Helena Bonham Carter as Elizabeth didn't impress me as much as everyone else ( sorry Helena ! ) . Robert De Niro as the monster is terrific , he looks just like I would imagine a crudely stitched together man would look like in reality helped greatly by the impressive make-up effects De Niro is buried under . Unfortunately Frankenstein has a great opening half that is well paced , interesting & entertaining but a poor second half that just goes nowhere fast . After Frankenstein has created his monster character motivations & actions are somewhat underdeveloped . To be honest not much actually happens during the second half , although one or two moments keep things moving along & helped to maintain my waining interest throughout the two hour running time . And that's another problem , it's far too long & this film could have done with being edited down by at least twenty minutes , I mean the opening & closing sequences that bookend the film are unnecessary in my opinion so that's ten minutes straight away Mr . Branagh ! There isn't much gore in it , a ripped out heart , some gruesome looking cadavers & some stitching with needle & thread . There are also a couple of graphic hangings , too . Overall a good horror with maybe a little to many soap-opera melodramatics for my liking & a definite poorer second half than first . Certainly worth a watch & I'd imagine it would be pretty easy to find a cheap copy somewhere or watch it on T . V . for free , not bad at all .
I quite liked it , another thoughtful Romero living dead flick .	Diary of the Dead starts late one October night when the world changed forever , a small group of friends are making a low budget horror film in the woods when news reports start coming in about the dead coming back to life & attacking the living . Young filmmaker Jason Creed ( Josh Close ) rushes to find his girlfriend Debra ( Michelle Morgan ) & together with some of their friends pack up & try to make it back to their families , however the crisis worsens as thousands of the flesh eating living dead roam the country . Everywhere they go the living dead are there , learning to survive quickly they decide to fight the living dead . As the world & everything they once knew crumbles around them aspiring filmmaker Jason decides to capture it all on video in order to document the truth . . . Written & directed by zombie maestro himself George A . Romero this was the fifth film in his legendary living dead series which started way back with Night of the Living Dead ( 1968 ) which was followed by the excellent Dawn of the Dead ( 1978 ) & then the equally excellent Day of the Dead ( 1985 ) before Land of the Dead ( 2005 ) , while not a sequel in a chronological sense Diary of the Dead probably would fit in best after Night of the Living Dead but before Dawn of the Dead as it deals with the immediate aftermath of the living dead outbreak & the attempts of a bunch of teens to survive & make some sort of sense of whats going on & relay it to a shocked world . Like in his previous living dead films Romero focuses on a strong central social message , there's some satire & one or two nice allusions . Here Romero takes a swipe at the media in general , the people who film it & those who report & misrepresent it for their own ends . Romero clearly thinks the last semblance of truth to be found is on web blogs , video hosting sites & the like , he gets his point across quite well actually although the film does tend to drown in it occasionally as the entire thing is presented as a filmed documentary & Romero never misses a chance to remind us . The pace is good & at only 90 odd minutes it's not too long & the character's are better than I expected although I am not sure anyone would have a video-camera literally glued to their hand filming everything as flesh eating zombies take over the world . The time period of Diary of the Dead contradicts Night of the Living Dead which are both supposed to be happened at the same time but apart from that this is a worthy entry in the series . I don't think it's for everyone as it has a message & requires a little bit of thought & a little bit of knowledge of world events & the way things are . Romero has downplayed the gore here which were always highlights of the previous living dead films , there's some bullets wounds , a few head-shots , a guy puts a scythe through his own face , a zombie has half it's head burnt off with acid & a scene similar to one in Day of the Dead when a zombie rolls over & it's intestines fall out onto the floor . Technically the film is quite good & doesn't have that awful shaky hand-held camcorder look & feel about it . Various video-camera sources are used from mobile phones cameras the security cameras & at least there's a few switches in angle & shot . With a supposed budget of about $2 , 000 , 000 & shot over 23 days this was filmed in Toronto in Canada to keep the budget down , it's well made with good production values & Romero handles the first person view very well . In particular the opening continuous shot featuring the dead returning to life , emergence services running around & a telly news-reporter trying to make sense of it is pretty impressively staged . The acting is fine from a young cast with Michelle Morgan in particular doing well . Diary of the Dead is a very different sort of zombie film from Romero but at the same time his social commentary & living dead trademarks are here for all to see , I suppose the biggest factor whether you like Diary of the Dead will be if you can sit through the first person camcorder perspective for an hour & a half . & sixth living dead film is currently in production with Romero again writing & directing .
Not too bad , at least it was gory .	Mansquito starts as we learn that a deadly virus spread by mosquito's is claiming 1000's of victims across America , scientist's Dr . Aaron Michaels ( Jay Benedict ) & Dr . Jennifer Allen ( Musetta Vander ) are trying to create a mosquito which will mate with normal mosquito's & eradicate the virus or something like that . Convicted mass murderer Ray Erikson ( Austin Jordan ) has enrolled in a medical research program where he lets people like Michaels do stuff to him for a lighter sentence , however en-route to Michaels lab Ray manages to steal a cops gun & in the following gunfight a special reactor in the lab blows up & covers Ray in some slimy blue DNA altered gunk which has the unwanted side effect of turning him into a grotesque 7 foot tall half man / half mosquito creature who needs to drink a lot of blood to survive . Lieutenant Tom Randall ( Corin Nemec ) is on the case as the Mansquito drinks dry everyone it meets . . . Also known as MosquitoMan yes folks here we have yet another Nu Image creature feature that they seem to have an endless conveyor belt of , the one surprising thing about Mansquito is that I didn't think it was half bad & a lot better than just about any other Nu Image creature feature I can think of right now . Directed by Tibor Takacs Mansquito is a throwback to the giant bug flicks from the 50's & 60's with added gore & CGI , the script by Michael Hurst & it's title character also bear more than a passing resemblance to The Fly ( 1986 ) . The usual Nu Image creature feature plot points & clichés are here , genetic scientists experiments create mutant creature , cop tries to track creature down , creature kills lots of unimportant character's & causes general mayhem . However Mansquito manages to stand out as a fairly fun monster on the loose type flick & it also has the added bonus of lots of gore along with a very high body count which Nu Image films usually lack . The makers obviously didn't do much research as male Mosquito's can't suck blood & I don't understand what Ray was going to used for or what the scientists were trying to achieve in their experiments but did you expect common sense & realism from a horror flick called Mansquito ? No , neither did I so just sit back & enjoy it for what it is , a simple by-the-numbers yet effective & fun creature feature with some neat gore . Director Takacs does OK , the film looks nice enough & he keeps things moving along at a reasonable pace . While most Nu Image films use awful CGI computer effects Mansquito pleasingly uses traditional prosthetic & animatronic make-up effects for it's title character & the many gory killings which I'll give the film an extra star for regardless . Actual on set physical effects look so much better than cheap CGI , sure the effects here aren't brilliant but the man in a rubber monster suit still looks better & it's as simple & straight forward as that . When the time comes for the makers to use CGI when Mansquito decides to fly it looks OK . As you would expect there are lots of running around in the dark while Mansquito stalks it's prey & there's a cool hospital massacre sequence at the end . Ther are numerous attack scenes all of which contain fair amounts of blood , there's the usual assortment of dead bodies in various states of mutilation , there's severed limbs , there are shoot outs , someones head is stamped on by Mansquito & splits open & a great scene when someone has half their head diagonally sliced off by Mansquito's razor arm . Luckily the makers weren't afraid to use the fake blood blood either , during the hospital massacre is looks like someone spray painted the walls with the stuff ! With a supposed budget of about $5 , 000 , 000 the reason why Mansquito is better looking , gorier & more impressive than most Nu Image creature features is because it had a bigger budget then most Nu Image creature features & to be fair to it it shows . It's quite well made with decent production values . The acting isn't great from a cast virtual unknowns , unknown to me anyway . Mansquito isn't the best film in the world , it isn't even the best creature feature in the world by I thought it was entertaining enough in it's own right & passed 90 odd minutes harmlessly enough . Nu Image isn't known for the quality of their films so the fact Mansquito is actually quiet good is an achievement in itself , fans should definitely check this one out as it's one of their best in my opinion .
Entertaining & stylish Tourneur / Lewton mystery chiller from the 40's .	The Leopard Man is set in New Mexico & starts in a night club where showbiz PR man Jerry Manning ( Dennis O'Keefe ) gives his star act & girlfriend Kiki Walker ( Jean Brooks ) a Leopard he has borrowed from a man called Charlie How-Come ( Abner Biberman ) , so she can wow the crowd & create some publicity for herself . However the Leopard is frightened by some castanets & escapes into the darkness of the night . Soon after a young girl named Teresa Guadalupe Maria Delgado ( Margaret Landry ) is attacked & killed by the Leopard on her way home from a shop . A posse of local men & police go in search of the Leopard but come back empty handed . The next night another young girl named Consuelo Contreras ( Tuulikki Paananen as Tula Param ) is brutally murdered in a graveyard . Jerry feels responsible for what is happening & tries to help police Chief Robles ( Ben Bard ) out , but on closer inspection of the evidence Jerry starts to think that the Leopard might not be responsible after all . Along with the town's museums curator Dr . Galbraith ( James Bell ) & Kiki , Jerry sets out to find out what's really going on & why as the body count continues to rise . . . Directed by Jacques Tourneur & produced by Val Lewton I quite enjoyed The Leopard Man . The script by Ardel Wray is suitably well paced & clocking in at just over an hour it doesn't outstay it's welcome . There are various suspects all of whom are given motives to kill & this part of the film works well , although having said that I did figure out the end fairly early on & if anything the script gives the viewer a little bit too much information . The acting is fine by all involved even if it does seem rather stiff these days . There's no on screen violence or gore but this really doesn't matter when a strong story such as this shines through in a horror film . Technically The Leopard Man is solid & in particular the cinematography by Robert De Grasse is impressive creating a nice atmosphere throughout by making good use of light & shadow which is obviously important in a black & white film . Well worth a watch & don't be put off by either it's age or the fact it's shot in black & white . Recommended if you find a copy .
I thought it was pretty fun .	Cursed is set in Los Angeles & starts on a road in the hills as brother & sister Ellen ( Christina Ricci ) & Jimmy Meyers ( Jesse Eisenberg ) are driving along & hit some sort of animal on the road which causes them to crash into another car which in turn ends up off the road . While trying to help the driver ( Shannon Elizabeth ) they are attacked by & Werewolf who kills the woman & scratches both Ellen & Jimmy . The authorities put the incident down to some mountain tiger or bear attack , case closed . However strange things start to happen to both Ellen & Jimmy who undergo odd changes , they both have the ' mark of the beast ' on their palms , they are warned by psychic's , they develop heightened senses & immense strength & they develop a taste for raw meat as they succumb to the curse of the Werewolf . . . This American German co-production was directed by Wes Craven & is a fairly fun light hearted teen horror that I admit I quite liked . Cursed underwent a very troubled production , while being filmed in early 2003 the production company Miramax pulled the plug after not liking what they were seeing . The script was almost totally rewritten & subsequently shot during late 2003 at which time several of the principal cast were unavailable to complete filming so entire character's & sequences were cut , rewritten & re-shot . It is then perhaps somewhat surprising that the script by producer Kevin Williamson is as coherent & enjoyable as it is , it certainly isn't any sort of masterpiece but it is fairly likable forgettable fun that I enjoyed . Maybe more than I should have but I did enjoy it , so sue me . I would say Cursed is a sort of mix between The Lost Boys ( 1987 ) with it's youth culture & character's & An American Werewolf in London ( 1981 ) with people attacked by a Werewolf who then find themselves turning into Lycanthropes & waking up naked in public . There's a fair amount of personal drama & angst as a fair amount of the script focuses on the two main leads coping with finding out they are Werewolves & the impact that has on their lives although there are a few decent Werewolf scenes & a reasonable climax which is maybe a little too predictable but at least the makers tried to stick a twist in there . Director Craven has had better days , from classic pioneering horror like The Last House on the Left ( 1972 ) , The Hills Have Eyes ( 1977 ) , A Nightmare on Elm Street ( 1984 ) , The People Under the Stairs ( 1991 ) & Scream ( 1996 ) to the likes of Vampire in Brooklyn ( 1995 ) & this . Cursed is not the sort of film that you would associate with a master of the genre , maybe Craven just got lucky on a few occasions & he was never that good a director to begin with ? There's nothing scary here , it's very glossy , over-lit & very much a safe product of a Hollywood studio but I still liked it all the same . Available in both PG & Unrated versions the Unrated cut is obviously the way to go with some alright blood & gore scenes . You know the incredible Werewolf transformation scene by Rick Baker from An American Werewolf in London is now almost thirty years old yet in today's CGI computer effect driven film industry nothing has even come anywhere near it in terms of impact or realism which for me says everything about horror these days . The CGI Werewolf transformation in Cursed looks terrible , it's probably the single worst moment of the entire film & is unintentionally funny when it should have been the best & most dramatic moment like it was in An American Werewolf in London . With a supposed budget of about $35 , 000 , 000 Cursed is well made with good polished production values . The acting is alright , I liked Ricci in this & thought she put in a reasonable performance & had a nice look about her too . Genre icons Robert Forster , Corey Feldman & Heather Langencamp filmed scenes for Cursed during the initial shoot but weren't involved in the re-shoots & all of their scenes ended up on the cutting room floor & unused . Cursed is a film with a bad reputation but I couldn't help but quite like it , I'm not really sure why but I just did . It moves along at a good pace , there's some gore , there's Werewolves , there's some fun performances & some amusing scenes . It's not perfect that's for sure but I didn't think it was all that bad & it's as simple & straight forward as that .
" My mermaid is dead . " Strange gross & pointless .	Za Ginipiggu 4 : Manhoru no Naka no Ningyo , or Guinea Pig : Mermaid in the Manhole as it's more commonly known amongst Enlish speaking audiences , starts in the Japanese sewer system where an artist ( Shigeru Saiki ) likes to go & paint things , for some reason I'm not aware of . One day he discovers a beautiful mermaid ( Mari Somei ) , half Japanese woman , half fish . He decides to paint her but it quickly becomes apparent that spending all her time in the Japnese sewer system isn't doing the mermaids health any good & she starts to develop huge puss filled sacs of diseased flesh on her stomach . The artist takes her back to his place & sticks her in a bathtub filled with water , unfortunately this does not have the desired effect & the mermaids entire body becomes engulfed in these disgusting sacs of rotten flesh which eventually begin to burst . The artist becomes desperate as his beautiful mermaid is rotting away in front of his very eyes ! This Japanese production was directed by Hideshi Hino & I'm not really sure what to make of it or who it's supposed to appeal to , the entire Guinea Pig series of films seem to exist for no other reason other than a pointless exercise to test the endurance levels of it's audience out . The script is far removed from reality although it does try to redeem itself with a really sick & unpleasant twist ending that seems to contradict itself . Za Ginipiggu 4 : Manhoru no Naka no Ningyo seems to exist for no other purpose other than to try & gross it's audience out at every available opportunity , which when I think about it isn't necessarily a bad thing by any means ! It's hard to know what to make of it & as long as you know what your letting yourself in for I suppose it's quite good in a sick , perverse & bizarre sort of way . At only an hour or so in length it moves along at a fair pace & certainly grips the viewer as you want to know how this thing is going to end . The dialogue is sparse & little attempt is made at characterisation , but the filmmakers include just about enough to get by with . Director Hino doesn't do anything special in the film-making department , this thing has all the style & class of a TV soap opera . The gore is plentiful , the puss filled sores & sacs on the mermaids body really are gross , that is until they burst & start oozing blue , purple , green , yellow & white liquid when it becomes more comical . One thing this film uses are slimy worms , boy the filmmakers must have used 100's if not 1000's of the things ! They start to slime & crawl their way out of the mermaids wounds & totally cover her , if you don't like slimy creepy crawlies then Za Ginipiggu 4 : Manhoru no Naka no Ningyo isn't for you as there's loads of them . The nasty climax features a total body dismemberment , severed limbs , hacked out foetus's , a popped out eye , scalp removal & plenty of internal organs . Most of it's pretty disgusting & Hino doesn't mind long lingering close-ups of the action . Technically the film looks cheap throughout , it's point & shoot stuff . The special make-up effects range from gross to absurd but most of the time they are well realised . I never comment on the acting on subtitled films but I'm sure the material doesn't lend itself too well for a great performance , that female buck toothed neighbour was highly annoying though . Za Ginipiggu 4 : Manhoru no Naka no Ningyo is a strange film , I can't really say it's a good film but I can't say it's a bad one as I thought it was OK & took a certain amount of sick pleasure from it but I personally wouldn't want anyone I know to watch anything like this . Equal parts disgusting , strange & pointless . One more thing , that guy's carpet must have been rank by the end of the film ! I mean he could have put some newspaper down or something , right ?
Totally 100 % fake horror that documents various tortures on a woman .	Za Ginipiggu : Akuma no Jikken , or Guinea Pig : Devils Experiment as it's more commonly known amongst Western audiences , starts with a brief Japanese text introduction that translated into English supposedly reads ' Several years ago , I obtained a private video under the title Guinea Pig . It's commentary said " This is a report of an experiment in the breaking point of bearable pain and the corrosion of people's senses " but it was , in fact , an exhibition of devilish cruelty as 3 perpetrators severely abused a woman . Note : " Guines Pig " is defined as any experimental material . ' Once that's out the way Za Ginipiggu : Akuma no Jikken starts proper & the fun begins . . . Another caption informs us that it is ' Summer 198X ' , the film is split up into various sections that are preceded by a title card & the first one reads ' HIT ' in which three men slap & punch a woman named Yegg around her face & eventually start whacking her with a small cloth bag full of coins , a counter in the bottom right hand corner of the screen indicates 100 before the second section ' KICK ' begins which is self explanatory . The third is ' CLAW ' in which the skin on Yegg's arm & hand is pinched with a metal tool of some sort . Then it's ' UNCONCIOUS ' in which the men spin Yegg around on a chair , a lot . Next up is ' A SOUND ' in which Yegg is subjected to a horrible high pitched noise through headphones which are tied & taped to her head , as the counter reads 20h Yegg starts to drool . In ' BURN ' the men pour boiling hot water over Yegg's arms . ' WORM ' sees a load of maggots poured over Yegg's face , body & wounds . ' GUTS ' shows the men throwing presumably animal intestines all over poor Yegg & finally Za Ginipiggu : Akuma no Jikken finishes with ' NEEDLE ' which is the showstopper where Yegg is put out of her misery . . . The first of 7 Guinea Pig films produced in Japan Za Ginipiggu : Akuma no Jikken is sick , offencive , twisted , depraved , senseless , brutal & has no redeeming values whatsoever which means it's just about the perfect exploitation film ! I can't say I loved it but at the same time I found it quite watchable for what it was . There is no story , no characters & it really is just scene after scene of Yegg being beaten & abused . I should also point out that Za Ginipiggu : Akuma no Jikken is totally fake & that's an absolute certainty . While the special make-up effects are very good they don't convince 100 % , having said that the needle inserted into Yegg's eye is a brutal scene & I can see how many would be grossed out by it but it's definitely just an effect albeit an impressive one . The production is extremely basic being filmed on what looks like a camcorder , there are no sets to speak of , no music & it contains virtually no dialogue except abuse the men hurl at Yegg . There isn't really much else to say about Za Ginipiggu : Akuma no Jikken except that if it sounds offencive to you then it will be , otherwise if you like extreme cinema & looking for something unique then this may fit the bill for you . I found it strangely watchable , I don't know what that says about me , but it certainly isn't for everyone . Think carefully before you give this one a go , difficult to recommend & my score is based on my own personal liking of it .
" You don't cut the balls off Superman . " I actually quite liked it .	The Hand starts in sunny Vermont where Mandro comic book artist John Lansdale ( Michael Caine ) lives with his wife Anne ( Andrea Marcovicci ) & young daughter Lizzy ( Mara Hobel ) , while driving along arguing about moving to New York for the winter John's right hand is severed in a freak car accident . John's hand is never found & he has to learn to cope with a prosthetic hand from now on , the accident has a big effect on John's life as he can't draw anymore & has to accept a lowly teaching job in a small town called Sarahville in California which means he has to separate from Anne who then has an affair while John is away . As things go from bad to worse John gets the feeling that his severed right hand has a mind of it's own & is single-handedly ( ha ! ) killing people around him who have angered him . . . Written & directed by Oliver Stone this psychological horror thriller with a touch of drama has a pretty bad reputation but I have to say I quite liked it , it's certainly not a film that will appeal to a general audience but I think there's enough here to keep one interested throughout it's 100 odd minute duration . The script was based on a novel called ' The Lizard's Tail ' by Marc Brandell & centers a tale of psychological drama about a man losing his sanity & failing to adjust after a life changing accident around the old horror cliché of the living disembodied hand used to good effect ( or not depending on your opinion ) in such films as The Beast with Five Fingers ( 1947 ) , The Crawling Hand ( 1963 ) & Dr . Terror's House of Horrors ( 1964 ) amongst other's & I thought the concept , plot & way the story progresses was pretty good . The character's are good & I was interested in them , it's nice to see proper people in a horror film rather than faceless teenagers & while the pace isn't the quickest it develops it's story to the point where the events actually matter & have some significance to the audience . I also liked the way Stone gives the film a certain ambiguity & mystery , it's not clear until the end whether John's severed hand is responsible or whether it's John himself committing the murders during his blackouts . Having said that The Hand is not perfect , it's undeniably silly , who did that car belong to that rolled down the diff on fire & why was that scene even in the film in the first place & I really thought the ending was poor too . The film has a nice clean look about it , it looks a bit dated with a very static camera but it's well made . There's not much gore here but there is one half decent money shot here as John gets his hand severed & we see his bloody stump spurting blood everywhere . The severed hand effects are variable & to be honest not that good although I suspect they look better than any modern equivalent CGI effects would . While not overly scary the film does have a few creepy moments here & there & at least it does try to create a bit of an atmosphere although the bizarre scene when a cat decides to literally jump through a window for no apparent reason is unintentionally funny . There's some nudity as well if that sort of thing interests you as the local slut gets her breast's out within five minutes of meeting Caine , I wish I had that effect on women . . . Filmed in California The Hand has good production values & looks nice enough . The acting is pretty good even if Michael Caine goes a little over the top at times , apparently he took the role after Jon Voight , Christopher Walken & Dustin Hoffman turned the part down & Caine has also said in interviews the only reason he made The Hand was to earn the money to pay for a new garage he was having built at the time ! Fair enough I suppose but was rolling around on the floor fighting your own severed hand really worth it ? The Hand is a film that I feel like I shouldn't have liked but I did like it & even if I would find it hard to recommend it to one & all I think anyone interested in psychological horror could do a lot worse & watching Michael Caine overact as he wrestles with his own severed hand ( & lose ) is fun too . If nothing else The Hand teaches us one very important thing , never put your hand out of a car window while your wife is driving otherwise it'll end in tears . . .
Decent moralistic Quincy episode that still works today .	Quincy M . E . : An Ounce of Prevention starts as lowly construction worker Frank Roselli ( Gino Ardito ) loses his grip while working on the building of a skyscraper , he falls to his death . Los Angeles coroner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) performs the autopsy & while there is no doubt the fall killed him there are questions over what made him fall , after running several tests it turns out Frank's blood was loaded with some sort of oregano phosphates . Quincy traces the chemicals to tomato's he had eaten & back to his home town of Rosewood where he wife ( Barbar Baldavin ) grew them in their backyard , after testing the soil the health department find it is loaded with the dangerous chemicals & that it is contamination from a nearby disused landfill full of deadly waste organic pesticide chemicals . An entire community is under threat unless the waste can be cleaned up , the only problem is no-one wants to pay for it . . . Episode 21 from season 4 this Quincy story was directed by Kenneth Gilbert & is one of those Quincy episodes which is split between a race against time to save lives & a moralistic message . The one thing that stands out in An Ounce of Prevention is that the message about dumping waste , the ever-growing problem of pollution & more importantly who is responsible for it is never more appropriate than today , in fact you could say the writers of this episode were pretty forward thinking as pollution & associated green issues are big news these days . It also foresees that the constant , unmonitored & unregulated dumping of waste will one day have an impact , even if it's not the day it's dumped but ten years down the line when it's had a chance to do some real damage . What I also liked about An Ounce of Prevention beside a very real & topical moral issue is that it doesn't forget that at heart it's a show designed to entertain & a such there's a pretty good sub-plot about leaking barrels of waste dumped at sea & it also has some trademark Quincy humour with Asten trying to get Quincy to talk to some Japanese tourists & Quincy picking a girl up no-one else could . A good episode then , maybe not the most original or intriguing but still relevant & entertaining . An Ounce of Prevention is probably the only Quincy episode ever to feature a submarine , it also tries to claim that skyscraper construction workers only use bits of rope to attach themselves to high buildings they are working on which doesn't seem plausible to me . I mean what if they slipped or something ? Surely they would wear a harness of some sort actually attached to the steel beams rather than a manky old rope tied around it ? The acting is OK in this one , the Japanese tourists overdo it a bit though . An Ounce of Prevention show's that we didn't really take these Quincy episodes that seriously back in 1979 since pollution is still a huge problem , it's an entertaining enough episode considering there's no murder mystery angle to it .
" Our friend Bigelow was a dead man walking . " Decent enough early Quincy episode .	Quincy M . E . : An Unfriendly Radiance starts as Los Angeles coroner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) is having a night off at Danny's , however laboratory assistant Sam ( Robert Ito ) calls him with a puzzling case , that of the dead body of Donald Bigelow ( Joby Baker ) who apparently died in a car crash but whose body is loaded with deadly amounts of radiation . Quincy agrees to cut his night off short & come in , there he ends up as puzzled as Sam was . It seems that Lt . Monahan ( Garry Walberg ) has arrested Ray Sanchez ( Ronald G . Joseph ) for manslaughter since he was driving the car which he claims was forced off the road by another , Quincy says that Donald was a dead man walking & that the radiation was going to kill him anyway & they should be looking for the source . Then Quincy finds out Donald worked for the San Miguel Nuclear Facility which is where he thinks he will find the answers . . . Episode 10 from season 2 this Quincy story was directed by Corey Allen & is a pretty good Quincy murder mystery , it's not one of the show's finest fifty minutes but it's still watchable . Here one of the main problems is that the killers are revealed immediately , in fact within the first fifteen seconds so that sort of takes a lot of the mystery element out of the programme & I just sat there waiting for Quincy to find the proof to nail them which predictably he does with the help of a dead goldfish . There's the usual red tape , unhelpful people in authority & bureaucracy that Quincy has to fight to get to the truth but it just all felt a little too routine & like everyone was just going through the motions . The issues surrounding the danger of radiation isn't touched upon at all & is only used as a backdrop & means of murder rather than the moral issue of the week like it surely would have been in later seasons of Quincy . Also I'm not happy about Donald Bigelow not going to see a Doctor , I mean if he was really that ill as he couldn't stand up surely any normal , sane person would have sought medical treatment ? The secretary specifically says he came in during the morning & barely made it to his desk so that means he was badly ill all day long , I'm sorry but most of us just know when we have a cold or are just under the weather a bit & instinctively know when there's something more serious the matter with ourselves . I just don't & can't believe that someone that ill for that amount of time would not have sought medical help . There's a half decent car chase & crash at the start of An Unfriendly Radiance otherwise it's fairly standard exposition based point the camera in the right direction & shoot type stuff . I'm not happy about Ray's wife's verbal attack on Quincy either , I'm not being funny here but it wasn't Quincy's fault that he confessed to murder was it ? It wasn't Quincy's fault that Ray already had a record as long as his arm was it ? It wasn't Quincy's fault that all the evidence pointed to Ray's guilt was it ? No offense but if I was Quincy I would have had Pete the security guard chuck her out on her ear ! Quincy was the only person even trying to prove Ray's innocence so I think she should have been a little bit more grateful ! The acting here is good especially the regulars as usual . An Unfriendly Radiance is a decent enough Quincy episode with a slightly hard to swallow plot & a somewhat routine feeling about it . Fans of the show should still like it but it's not a classic episode .
OK horror anthology .	Body Bags starts in a morgue where the attendant ( John Carpenter ) enjoys his job , he particularly likes the stiffs that come in in black body bags for they contain the murder , accident & suicide victims . Each one seems to have they're own morbid tale of how they ended up on the coroners autopsy table . . . Jump to Haddonfield where our first story titled ' The Gas Station ' is set . A serial killer is on the loose & new gas station employee Anne ( Alex Datcher ) is preparing for a long lonely night-shift . Anne becomes increasingly paranoid about everyone who turns up believing any of them may be a serial killer . . . The next body belongs to a someone who committed suicide in a story called ' Hair ' . Richard Coberts ( Stacy Keach ) is losing his hair & it's ruining his life , confidence & self esteem . Wanting to impress his girlfriend Megan ( Sheena Easton ) he contacts Dr . lock ( David Warner ) who promises a miracle hair regrowth treatment , unfortunately the procedure has some unexpected & very much unwanted side-effects . . . The final segment is entitled ' Eye ' & features pro baseball player Brent Matthews ( Mark Hamil ) who appears to have an almost perfect life , that is until he is involved in a car accident in which he loses his right eye . However Dr . Lang ( John Agar ) has spent the past 10 years of his life perfecting an eye transplant & Brent becomes the first beneficiary of the treatment , unfortunately the operation is not without it's problems . . . Featuring & co-executive produced by John Carpenter who also co-composed the music & directed two of the three segments , The Gas Station & Hair while Tobe Hooper directed Eye & he also has a small cameo in the film at the very end . I generally really like anthologies & Body Bags is fair entertainment I suppose but it could have been so much more . The first story The Gas Station is predictable & feels more like a slasher condensed into 30 odd minutes . The second story Hair is anything but predictable , this is one bizarre idea & is by far the most effective of the three stories as long as you can suspend your disbelief long enough . God knows who came up with the idea for this segment but they sure have one hell of an imagination . The third story Eye is also predictable as it's just a clichéd body part taking over type scenario & most disappointingly of all I guessed the ending within two minutes of Brent having the transplant . The script by Billy Brown & Dan Angel really could have done with stronger ideas & should have included twist ending for all three segments . Director's Carpenter & Hooper film with competence but the low TV budget & production values are hard to ignore . Carpenter seems to pay homage to himself as he sets The Gas Station in Haddonfield while the film is littered with genre personalities , from director's like Wes Craven , Sam Raimi & Roger Corman to actor's like Tom Arnold , David Naughton , George ' Buck ' Flower , Deborah Harry , Twiggy & John Agar besides those I've already name-checked . There is some gore here , various plucked out eyeballs rolling around & a graphic operation sequence when Brent has his new eye implanted , a silly autopsy scene , a slit throat , someone is crushed under a car with loads of blood gushing everywhere , a pair of hedge trimmers in someones eye & a cut arm . Technically Body Bags is pretty solid considering it's a TV produced film , nothing spectacular but at the same time it's generally well made . There is some decent stop motion animation in Hair while the other special effects are also OK . The acting was fine & there are plenty of familiar faces . Body Bags isn't the best horror anthology out there by any means but I've always liked this sub-genre so maybe I'm being a bit generous . Disappointing in some respects but still worth a watch if you've got nothing else to do .
" I was terrible , I stunk ! " Not too bad actually .	Quincy M . E . : Beyond the Open Door starts as Los Angeles is in a state of panic , a serial killer known as the ' hit and run strangler ' has raped & murdered several teenage girls . Lt . Monahan ( Garry Walberg ) & chief medical examiner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) are stumped as their latest lead goes nowhere , with nothing else to go on Monahan decides to take advice from a psychic named Edith Jordan ( Kim Stanley ) although Quincy is sceptical . However Quincy soon changes his opinion when Edith saves a girls life after one of her predictions which turns out to be true , soon Edith's involvement in the case is publicised by the media & the killer has to find & silence her before she leads the police to him . . . Episode 15 from season 8 this Quincy story was directed by Georg Fenady & unlike a lot of the disappointing eight actually revolves around a murder mystery & keeps the moral issues down to a minimum . OK so there is a little bit of a message here with it's overall story of not dismissing something out of hand just because you can't measure it by science . Overall I liked this one , I like the Quincy episodes which center themselves around a good murder mystery & Beyond the Open Door is also quite fun as the initially sceptical Quincy goes up against the psychic Edith Jordan . I also have to say that the killer wouldn't have gotten away in the theatre scene , the cops would have shot him dead before he even reached the stage let alone give him enough time to climb onto it & escape . At 50 odd minutes it moves along at a decent pace & it entertains . While watching Beyond the Open Door I was amazed to see how much the killer Raymond Pike played by Chris Woods looked like Bruce Campbell from Evil Dead II ( 1987 ) ! Beyond the Open Door is also probably the only Quincy episode that features Frankenstein's castle ! The acting is alright with the regular cast as solid as usual . Beyond the Open Door is a good solid Quincy episode & a rare ray of light in an otherwise largely disappointing season eight & a decent Quincy episode in it's own right .
" I'm not making any promises . . . but I'll see what I can do . " Decent murder mystery .	Quincy M . E . : Ashes to Ashes starts as Marie Yagher ( Judith Baldwin ) suddenly drops down dead in a bar , she ends up on Los Angeles coroner Quincy's ( Jack Klugman ) autopsy table & he quickly discovers she died from cardiac arrest or to put it more simply a heart attack . Quincy is unsure why she died form a heart attack though , she was seemingly young , healthy & had no heart problems to that point . Then a woman named Tracy Boulder ( Janice Lynde ) confesses to Quincy her suspicions of Marie's husband Richard ( John Fink ) who was married to her sister Donna who also mysterious died from a sudden unexplained heart attack three years ago leaving him free to marry the rich Marie , Tracy is sure it was murder & as the evidence stacks up Quincy becomes convinced of it as well but can he prove it ? Episode 17 from season 3 this Quincy murder mystery was directed by Herb Wallerstein & is an enjoyable enough entry into the series . Once again Quincy has go out on a limb as he puts his reputation on the line to catch a murderer & prove that there was even a murder in the first place , that brief outline sounds familiar because it is familiar as it's been used many time in the series but I must admit I never tire of it . The makers usually throw something different into the mix & try to vary the story lines , in this case Quincy manages to autopsy a pile of ashes to get to the truth ! At the standard 50 minutes ( without commercials ) in length it moves along at a brisk pace & certainly entertained me but then I'm a fan of the show in general so maybe I'm biased . As usual there are one or two things which don't quite add up , for a start that dodgy Doctor Jones who lives in Mexico sure tells Quincy what he wants to know without much resistance doesn't he ? You would have thought spilling the guts & dishing the dirt on your customers wouldn't be particularly good for business but this guy doesn't seem to care , what makes it worse as soon as Quincy leaves he phones Richard to tell him ! Talk about a good way to lose customers , just grass them up to the authorities & implicate them in a murder ! Does Doctor Jones actually want to go out of business ? Then there's the scene when Lt . Monahan is waiting in Asten's office to tell Quincy just by chance that Richard is about to fly to Brazil , why would Monahan be monitoring Richard when he didn't even believe Quincy's story ? Why waste valuable police time waiting for Quincy to come back to the lab to tell him information which might not mean anything ? Competently made but unremarkable to look at this is standard Quincy stuff , there's a very racist & stereotypical studio bound set of a bar that is meant to be in Mexico . The acting is alright , as usual it's the regulars which carry it & as usual the guest cast aren't so hot with John Fink as Richard turning in a poor performance . Ashes to Ashes is a good solid Quincy murder mystery , sure there are a few silly moments in it but most of what makes the series so likable is here .
Average Quincy , not too bad but not to the usual standard .	Quincy M . E . : For Want of a Horse starts in the L . A . desert where general all round scumbag Paul Tanner ( Luke Askew ) garrotes his kind & rich property owning uncle Jason Randall ( Paul Fix ) with wire , he then pours a liquid which attracts coyote's over his uncle's face so by the time Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) gets to the body Jasons ' face & throat have been eaten . Tanner then tricks his ill aunt into signing some papers which will evict Jack LaFollie ( Lonny Chapman ) & close the Institute of Equestrian Therapy that Jack set up & runs with Jason's help which helps disabled children including Dr . Asten's ( John S . Ragin ) crippled foster child Andy ( Brian Andrews ) . However can Quincy use his medical knowledge to somehow put a murderer behind bars & save the institute ? Episode 6 from season 7 this Quincy story was directed by Ray Danton & this is one of those stories where the time is divided between Quincy solving a crime although there's no mystery element as the opening scene reveals who did it & a moral issue that the show was so fond of during it's later season's . They both dovetail in a rather predictable way & that sugar coated feel good sentimental ending has to be one of the worst in the show's 8 season's & that's saying something . As neither plot is given precedence over the other you never really focus on one & until it comes together at the end For Want of a Horse feels a bit like two separate programs with tenuous connections edited together . I'm also not happy about Gabe ( Ronnie Scribner ) the boy who can't speak who witnesses the murder but then doesn't tell anyone , I'm sorry but I don't buy it all . I mean I think most of us would tell someone if we witnessed a murder & especially when the murderer knew we witnessed it , right ? Overall For Want of a Horse is an OK episode , at least there's a murder in it but the sentimental clap trap & moral message muddies the water & drags it down to strictly average . The guest cast do OK but no ones going to win any awards here , unusually we get to see the personal side of Dr . Asten during this episode . For Want of a Horse is an alright Quincy episode which can't quite make it's mind up whether it wants to be a murder mystery or a platform for a social issue & in the end it comes across as average .
Some graphic gore , but not much else .	We meet George Tatum as he is released from a mental hospital after being " cured " . He decides to terrorize his ex-wife and son and their new family . Along the way he kills a few people and has some nightmares . Not much going for this one except some decent gore . Uninspired story that takes 90 odd minutes to do what I summed up in a couple of sentences . The ending is'nt much of a surprise as theres flashbacks ( or should that be flashforwards ? ) to it throughout the whole film . Acting , directing , editing and photography are reasonable . Word has to go to the gore effects though , which are pretty cool . Not too bad for its kind . Could do better , could do worse .
Decent Quincy episode .	Quincy M . E . : Guilty Until Proved ( annoyingly the IMDb spell-check changes the ' en to ' ed ' at the end of ' Prov ' automatically & there's nothing I can do about it ) Innocent starts as Los Angeles coroner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) is called out to a burnt to the ground warehouse where a badly burned body has been found , the body belongs to Marco the warehouse foreman & Quincy finds out that he was knocked out before the fire started . That points to arson & possibly murder , Philip St . Johns ( Eugene Roche ) from the U . S . Attorney Office feels that it was an insurance scam by the warehouse owner Ted Locke ( Rudy Solari ) who had connections to the mob & uses all the privileges of a Federal Grand Jury to convict him , however Ted is a close friend of Quincy's & the coroner sets out to prove his innocence . . . Episode 12 from season 8 this Quincy story was directed by Ray Danton & is a fair episode , it's not amongst the show's best but it's better than a lot of season eight . Like a lot of season eight it spends too much time on some moral issue the case being here about the inadequacies of the Federal Grand Jury system & not assuming someone is guilty purely by association . Now that's fine but I like the Quincy episodes where he has to solve or prove a murder & since the opening sequence reveals exactly what happened , that Ted wasn't guilty & that it was an accident there's no surprises & you always feel it's just a matter of time before Quincy proves his friend's Ted's innocence . There's a large 20 odd minute chunk at the start that doesn't feature Quincy at all & focuses on Ted's family & personal problems , call me strange but I just found it rather average . What does save Guilty Until Proved Innocent to some extent are the court room scenes where Quincy comes up against Federal prosecutor St . Johns & the heated exchanges as Quincy becomes angrier & angrier are entertaining & fun but other than these scenes this is pretty average stuff . The start of Guilty Until Proved Innocent features a fire & a huge explosion , I'm not convinced that Quincy had the budget to stage such an impressive explosion & I suspect that it's stock footage or a scene taken from another show . The acting here is alright & Klugman is on top form as usual . Guilty Until Proved Innocent is an fairly average Quincy episode , there is a reasonable plot where Quincy has to use his medical skills & his court room scenes are fun but otherwise there's too much dull drama for my liking .
" Guns don't die . . . but people do . " Moralistic Quincy .	Quincy M . E . : Guns Don't Die starts as a drug addict named Benny robs a man in a park at gunpoint , the man resists & the gun goes off . The next morning & Los Angeles coroner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) performs the mans autopsy & finds a cut & dry case of death by 22 calibre bullet . Having dumped the gun Benny is picked up by police but a member of a local street gang finds the discarded weapon & uses it to shoot & kill a 14 year old boy who also ends up on Quincy's autopsy table . Two needless death's in the space of a few hours by the same gun really hits Quincy hard , Quincy realises that the US has a huge gun problem & sets out on a personal crusade to locate & destroy the gun that killed two innocent people & he soon has the backing of the entire LAPD when the gun is used to kill a third person , this time a cop doing his job . . . Episode 10 from season 7 this Quincy story was directed by Bob Bender & while Guns Don't Die is largely moralistic & social issue based the story is actually quite good & compelling for a change . Usually these moralistic Quincy episodes become a total bore with very heavy handed preaching that is often outdated anyway & no murder or mystery elements but int he case of Guns Don't Die the narrative is quite clever as the gun itself becomes the main guest star in the sense the episode follows the gun around , it follows it as it is used in various crimes & how one gun in the wrong hands can cause so much pain , suffering & needless death . The gun passes from thieving drug addicts to gang members to pawn shop owners to illegal arms suppliers to killers to a woman who supposed has it for protection before it is finally returned to it's lawful owner where it causes more tragedy when his young children get hold of it & one shoots the other by mistake in a rather sombre & downbeat ending . As I said I think the plot is quite clever as it follows this one gun around as it brings nothing but misery & death to those around it . A nicely effective anti-gun story really this & much , much better than the usual dull as dishwater moralistic Quincy episodes . I liked it & if only all the moralistic episodes were as interesting as Guns Don't Die , even though it is an episode with a social issue at it's core it doesn't forget about being a TV show or entertaining . During Guns Don't Die Quincy states that one person dies from gun crime every fifty minutes ( the same length of time as an episode of Quincy actually ) & while I can't find out the exact corresponding number for 2008 I would suspect that has dramatically increased . Of course here in the UK guns are illegal , all guns are illegal so Guns Don't Die when seen over here feels like it is preaching to the converted . Maybe because we don't have significant gun crime over here I enjoyed Guns Don't Die more than if I lived in the US & the events portrayed might feel a bit too close to home . Likable character actor Tom Atkins appears as a firearms expert while Klugman is as good as ever . Guns Don't Die is one of the best moralistic Quincy episodes , it hasn't dated that much & the themes & ideas are still relevant . The nice story following the gun around is also better than usual & quite original .
Decent Quincy episode .	Quincy M . E . : Hit and Run at Danny's starts in Danny's ( Val Bisoglio ) bar as Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) & his latest girlfriend Jenny are enjoying some tortoise racing along with the other punters , then Jenny's friend Robbi Parker ( Elizabeth Robinson ) is called away by her friend Janet Martin ( Renne Jarrett ) . After talking in the corner for a few minutes Robbi leaves only to be attacked at gunpoint in the parking lot by two men , they drive off in her car but she grabs the steering wheel & the car hits a football player named Mark Berkich ( Bob Minor ) before it takes a dive off the pier & into the sea . The next morning & the car is recovered with only the body of Robbi inside , since Danny served her & let her leave drunk he is as much responsible for the accident as she is under Californian law . If that wasn't enough during the autopsy Quincy finds out that Robbi had extensive plastic surgery & that three months ago Robbi Parker never existed . . . Episode 6 from season 2 this Quincy story was directed by Alvin Ganzer & one has to say that there is perhaps too much going on here to satisfactorily squeeze into fifty minutes . When I saw the title Hit and Run at Danny's I understandably thought that it would be about a hit and run at Danny's but that's just a small sub plot as the whole episode is very fragmented & bitty . There's the hit and run , there's the injured football player ( who we never find out if he is seriously injured ) , there's the mysterious Robbi Parker who never existed three months ago who turns out to be Danny's ex waitress , there's plastic surgeons , there's the legal situation Danny finds himself in , the slightly odd law that states he is responsible , there's mob hit men , seat belt burns , unidentified dead men , Governmet agencies , lies , cover-ups , there's a terrified woman who thinks she is going to be killed next & if all that wasn't enough there's some tortoise racing . It's all very random & I just didn't think it worked that well , I mean it's alright & there's plenty going on but I don't think it's good enough to be called classic Quincy . Also there's an odd sequence that might be down to poor editing but Sam clearly is seen phoning around hospitals looking for people admitted with seat belt burns on the request of Quincy , but then a few scenes later it show's Quincy realising that must have been a second man after talking to Asten through his car window & he makes a big point of suddenly realising it so how / why did Quincy tell Sam to phone around the hospitals before he figured out there must have been a second man ? You see what I'm trying say ? In this episode we see that Dr . Asten the boss owns a black Mercedes . There's a reasonable car stunt at the start as one drives of a pier but otherwise there's nothing overly memorable here except that Quincy , Monahan & Danny like to hold tortoise races & bet on them . It seems Quincy's tortoise is called Winston & is rubbish . The acting is alright although since this is an early episode the performances aren't quite as natural or assured as in later seasons as they were still probably working out how to play the character's . Hit and Run at Danny's has plenty going on & it could have made for a great episode but at the end of the day I felt there was just too much going on & too many average sub plots which failed to totally grab me . It's a good episode but a little messy & unsatisfying .
Amusing Quincy episode .	Quincy M . E . : Crib Job starts late one Californian night as Los Angelese coroner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) is called out to a suspected homicide , once there Quincy finds on old man known as Brownie ( Boyd ' Red ' Morgan ) dead with bruising on his knuckles & around his neck . Back in the lab & Quincy performs an autopsy which confirms Brownie was murdered , Lt . Monahan ( Garry Walberg ) has a young boy called Victor Garn ( Todd Davis ) in custody as his number one suspect . Particltes of Victor's skin were found in Brownie's knuckle wounds , splashes of Brownie's blood was found on Victor while an eye witness places him at the scene of the crime . At first it looks like an open & shut case but a long time friend of Quincy named Rosey Grier ( Roosevelt Grier ) who runs a community scheme called Giant Step ask's Quincy to listen to Victor & his story that he killed Brownie in self defence because Victor's guilt could close his program designed to help both the young & old in the community down for good . . . Episode 16 from season 3 this Quincy story was directed by Alex March & one has to say Crib Job has things going for it but at the same time has things going against it & it sort of finds an OK balance between the two to make a relatively enjoyable 50 odd minutes . This is one of those Quincy episodes which has a strong moral message at it's heart , a message about making the old feel wanted & needed by passing their skills & experience onto the young . Unfortunately it's pretty badly written & comes across as badly handled , the dialogue is simply hilarious at times as all these hip , young jive talking ( anything but ) cool kids interact with old age pensioners ! I loved the scene at the end when a teenage girl asked an 80 plus year old man if he ' wanted to boogie ' ! I don't know if anyone took this seriously back in ' 78 when this was made but viewing it today it's surprising the amount of times I actually laughed out loud at this . Another priceless scene is when Quincy visit's the young black guy in prison & the way he talks to Quincy with all his attitude & contempt for authority is simply hilarious . Now one of the reasons I like Quincy is for it's humour but in the case of Crib Job it's mostly unintentional humour which can be fun at times if not what the makers intended . The actual mystery Quincy has to solve isn't much of a mystery at all , Victor admits to killing Brownie but in self defence you after that it becomes a relatively straight forward case for Quincy to use his skills to prove it & save his buddies community project group . This is an alright episode , it's quite funny for the wrong reasons at times & the mystery elements while OK aren't that great but at only 50 odd minutes in length it's worth a watch . This one is as unremarkable as most Quincy episodes , I did notice though that when you first see Brownie's body one of his arms isn't in the white chalk outline drawn by the police ! Either the police officer who drew the chalk outline was drunk or the actor playing Brownie had moved his arm before the cameras started shooting . Also I'm not happy about how Quincy in literally one afternoon just happens to find another railway worker who just happened to know Brownie & had just happened to have seen him recently , talk about a co-incidence . The cheesy comedy ending is even worse than usual in Crib Job , out of politeness Quincy ask's an old lady to dance with him if she can take it which she accepts & then proceeds to dance like she's on steroids which leaves Quincy rather embarrassed ! The acting is alright & again like a lot of season 3 there's no Danny to be seen anywhere . Crib Job , a term which refers to a youth stealing or preying upon someone much older than them , is an OK episode of Quincy although maybe not for the reasons the makers intended . It's pretty funny & has it's moments but isn't anything outstanding .
" You want to autopsy a what ? " Decent Quincy episode .	Quincy M . E . : Dead Last starts at a local Los Angeles race track where coroner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) is trying to convince his friend Danny ( Val Bisoglio ) to invest in a horse called Trphy Knight with him , however it's not long before Quincy is called into action when jockey Julio Ruis ( Daniel Faraldo ) is found trampled to death in the stables . The prime suspect is a race horse called Blinding Light owned by Ron Henner ( Joseph Sirola ) who orders the animal destroyed . Back at the lab & Quincy discovers that Julio was dead before the horse trampled him & therefore it was murder , shortly after another jockey named Billy McGinn ( Lou Wagner ) also dies in an ' accident ' involving one of Henner's horses . Quincy is convinced that Henner is responsible but has no motive or proof . . . Episode 2 from season 5 this Quincy story was directed by Ray Danton & is a really good solid murder mystery that I would have given rather than six if it didn't have so much US horse race betting terminology in it that went completely over my head . This isn't the programmes fault but as someone who lives in the UK I really didn't get or understand a lot of the fine detail about the horse racing scam run by Henner , don't get me wrong though because that isn't the production teams fault since Dead Last was made for an American audience & if a few details are lost when viewed over here it's not the end of the world . It moves along at a good pace , there's an intriguing murder mystery although as I said some of Henner's plans was lost on me as a Brit . After performing an autopsy on a fish to catch a killer in An Unfriendly Radiance ( 1977 ) during season two Quincy gets to autopsy a horse here in Dead Last which Asten is predictably unhappy about . There's the usual light hearted humour mixed in with the mystery & the regular character's really shine through during this period in the show's run . A large part of Dead Last was shot at some real race track somewhere in Los Angeles although I don't where exactly . Joseph Sirola makes the first of five guest appearances on Quincy in which he played murderers , a police Lieutenant & a DA . This episode sees a horse fall , the inside of a slaughter house & an autopsy on a horse & while none of it is graphic the animal lovers out there will still probably find something objectionable to upset them . The cheesy comedy happy ending suggests that Quincy is a jinx when it comes to betting on horses . Dead Last is a good Quincy murder mystery episode that I gave a six rather than a seven because some of the betting & race track terminology made absolutely no sense to me but that in itself wasn't the production teams fault as it was made for a US audience who probably will understand it .
" Here we don't think . . . we know . " Decent Quincy episode .	Quincy M . E . : Death by Good Intentions starts as a misdiagnosed patient at Pratt Hospital undergoes seemingly successful surgery by Dr . Matthews ( Brock Peters ) to repair a hemorrhage , however a short time later the patient goes into cardiac arrest & dies . Los Angeles coroner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) performs the autopsy & together with the patients medical records decides that he has an unlawful death on his hands , his suspicions immediately fall on Dr . Eric Taylor one of his good friend Dr . Matthews protégé's . Dr . Matthews defends Taylor & says that he has no idea how the patient died , meanwhile the politics of the situation leads the Hospital administrator Dr . Banning ( Pernell Roberts ) to suspend Taylor which could finish his career unless Quincy can prove his wasn't responsible for the death despite all the evidence saying otherwise . . . Episode 4 from season 4 this Quincy story was directed by Ronald Satlof & after the horrible A Test for the Living ( 1978 ) the previous episode things get back on track here with a nice mix of murder mystery , detective work & politics for Quincy to get worked up about as well as having time for a bit of a moral message too . In fact I think Death by Good Intentions has a bit of everything , murder , mystery , detective work , obtrusive politics & a moral message ! Unlike a lot of Quincy episodes one could say Death by Good Intentions is sort of relevant today as it deals with racial issues of black Doctor's facing prejudice & the politics of running a Hospital . Luckily it doesn't forget that it should entertain first & foremost so there's a decent mystery element here too with Quincy having to do lots of detective work & plenty of laboratory experiments to catch a killer . The killers motives are little bit more interesting than usual as well , I'm not saying they're overly original or surprising but it makes a difference from the usual money , love or hate motives . A good episode slightly bogged down with a bit too much moral nonsense but otherwise a good way to pass fifty odd minutes . The one thing I noticed most about Death by Good Intentions was the size of actor Brock Peters nostrils , they are huge & your eyes can't help but be drawn to them . They are huge gaping holes & his nose looks like he has been punched square in the face too many times . The acting is alright with again the regulars coming off better than the guests . Death by Good Intentions is a good solid Quincy episode & it's a relief to get back to what makes the show so enjoyable for me after A Test for the Living , a must for fans & armchair detectives everywhere .
Decent Quincy episode .	Quincy M . E . : Diplomatic Immunity starts as Armando Sarejo ( Rudy Solari ) the President of a small Latin American country is awaiting a life saving liver operation in Los Angeles , together with his wife Isabella ( Ana Navarro ) & the people closest to him Sarejo waits for his operation . With security guards everywhere the much hated dictatorial President is supposedly safe , then Marcos ( Ivan Saric ) his Vice President dies suddenly of a heart attack . State department man Allen Stewart ( George Wyner ) requests LA coroner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) perform the autopsy , initial finds suggest Marcos died of a heart attack but it wasn't a natural death . With murder confirmed officials are convinced that Sarejo was the target & have a race against time to discover the would be assassin with Quincy using his medical skills to try & get to the truth . . . Episode 13 from season 5 this Quincy story was directed by Ray Danton & is a pretty good murder mystery themed story but it's not up there with the very best & I wouldn't call it classic Quincy . The script revolves around the potential assassination of the brutal President of a Latin American country which is fine & a good solid base but there are things which didn't really add up for me . I mean if you were trying to kill Sarejo why kill anyone else ? I know killing the Vice President as well would leave power up for grabs ( just killing the President would mean the Vice President would automatically become President ) but it's not really made that clear in a sloppy script . Surely the murder of someone close to the President would merely have raised suspicions & ultimately tightened security & made it even more difficult to carry out your intended assassination ? It's not even made clear who killed the Vice President , was it the Doctor who intended to kill the President & if it was why ? Was it the fake Hospital orderly ? Again if so why ? Why not just kill Sarejo to start off with ? The person who is responsible for those two death's is never made totally clear , the death's occur off screen so we , the audience that is , never actually find out the person behind the two murders or the reason behind at least one . Having said that Diplomatic Immunity is a decent murder mystery , it moves along at a good pace , there's no moral message to be found anywhere & most of the regular character's get a sizable role . Monahan gets to play detective & Asten gets to play pathologist as Quincy is tied up in a separate court case in a silly subplot which distances him from the main action although like the super coroner he is Quincy pretty much solves the case over the phone between the court & laboratory ! This one is well made as usual but remarkable , there's a tiny bit of action as a car speeds out of a Hospital car park & is shot at & a little bit of blood is seen . With a lot of the supporting character's from some unnamed Latin American country there are some seriously poor accents going on , some of the acting here is dire & some of the fake moustaches aren't that impressive either . The comedy ending sees Quincy sentenced to three days in prison for contempt of court which he has to serve on three consecutive Sunday's , surely he would have been in big trouble with his superiors for that & possibly even sacked ? Diplomatic Immunity is a decent if severely flawed murder mystery Quincy episode , it's not awful but it doesn't quite work either . Fans of the show should still like though as I did .
Decent fifth season opener .	Quincy M . E . : No Way to Treat a Flower starts as Dr . John Osbourne ( Paul Kent ) requests a quick autopsy on his patient Kathy Campbell ( Karlene Crockett ) due to baffling symptoms of death , Dr . Asten ( John S . Ragin ) puts his best man Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) on the case . The autopsy turns up some strange results , virtually every major organ in Kathy's body was severely damaged . Quincy concludes that it must be a poisonous substance & investigates whether Kathy was taking drugs , it turns out that her & her boyfriend Scott Westlake had taken some marijuana treated with a deadly chemical called colchicine advertised as making plants ( including grass ) grow bigger & faster . . . Episode 1 from season 5 this Quincy story was directed by Ray Danton & is far from the best season opener but is an entertaining way to kick off the fifth season of Quincy all the same . While No Way to Treat a Flower is a moralistic episode focusing on the social issue surrounding drugs , the taking of unknown chemicals & the inadequacies surrounding the advertising of said chemicals & drugs there's some nice little sub plots including a race against time to save Kathy's boyfriend Scott & yet more examples of bureaucracy & red tape as Quincy tries to do something about the problem but finds himself hitting a brick wall at almost every turn . There's some really nice humour here too , during season four is when the production team & actors really ' got ' the character's & everyone is like a family now , the dialogue is often funny yet still has a message , everyones quirks & personalities shine through & if your a fan of the series the interaction between the character's is joy to watch during this period of the show before the writers watered Quincy down , married him off , made him sell his boat , etc . Also if there is anyone out there who thinks every Quincy episode ends on a happy note then watch No Way to Treat a Flower since it has a poignant , sombre & fairly downbeat ending & is one of many Quincy's which blows the myth that there's a murder every episode out of the water . Klugman puts in a powerhouse performance here , the guy is just a wonderful actor . Here he show's real emotion ranging from anger , frustration , sorrow , exasperation , happiness , grumpiness & the whole lot played perfectly . The scenes where he comes up against red tape & the drug magazine publisher are just great . He was born to play Quincy & I can't imagine anyone else in the role ( see the awful Has Anybody Here Seen Quincy ? ( 1977 ) from season two for proof of that & how ordinary the show is without Klugman ) . Veteran Hollywood & TV actor Whit Bissell has a small role in this as a botanist . No Way to Treat a Flower is a good Quincy episode , it has a strong well written story , some nice humour & a fantastic performance by Klugman although that in itself is nothing new . Well worth a watch .
I actually thought it was OK .	The Bat People starts as a scientist researching Bat immunology Dr . John Beck ( Stewart Moss ) & his wife Cathy ( Marianne McAndrew ) take a public tour of an underground cave system , like a typical woman Cathy gets into trouble & ends up at the bottom of a crevice . John follows her down & he is bitten by a Bat , eventually they are missed & rescued . Better safe than sorry John checks in with Dr . Kipling ( Paul Carr ) who starts him on a course of rabies antibiotics , unfortunately John as changed & periodically transforms into a half-man half-bat type creature which has the antisocial habit of murdering anyone it meets & eating rats . Sergeant Ward ( Michael Pataki ) likes a quiet life & all these murders are upsetting him , he sets about tracking John down & putting an end to his murderous reign . . . Directed by Jerry Jameson & despite it's bad reputation I rather liked The Bat People , it certainly isn't any sort of masterpiece but as monster on the loose type thing I though it was watchable if nothing else . The script by producer Lou Shaw is hard to defend , if I'm honest its a bit slow , it can get dull at times , it's silly & never explains why John turns into the Bat creature he does & when all said & done not that much happens . But I still like it , for all it's bad points I liked it . I found the story quite cool & reminded of those monster films from the 50's & 60's , everything is played with deadly seriousness which I also thought gave the proceedings a certain silliness & there were a couple of effective scenes in here . The Bat People is one of those films I can't recommend as if I think about it with my head it's total crap but there's something in my heart which made me enjoy it , I'm sure monster film fans would like it to some extent although more casual viewers may want to skip it . Director Jameson does OK & I just love the 70's atmosphere , the clothes the fashions & the way it's shot . I thought the scene when John escapes from the hospital was funny , if your trying to escape from somewhere maybe stealing an ambulance with screeching sirens & flashing lights while dressed in a night gown isn't the best idea for not attracting attention . This was Stan Winston's second film as a make-up artist & he probably did the best he could on a low budget but if John turns into a Bat creature where are his wings ? He looks more like a Werewolf to be honest . The murders are tame , there's no blood & the film doesn't linger on them . Technically the film is alright , it certainly looks better than a lot of low budget horror films that have been made within the last few years , the special effects are decent & the New Mexican location shooting adds a lot to the film . The acting is alright with Pataki as the sleazy police officer standing out . The Bat People is crap if I'm completely honest , having said that I liked it despite it's faults however I think many won't . Impossible for me to recommend but at least I've put a different & honest point of view across compared to most people who slate it .
" Is the Vampiric sucking of blood radical ? " Decent big budget adventure .	The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen is set in the year 1899 in an alternate reality where a shadowy figure known as The Phantom is staging unprecedented acts of violence against nations across Europe in a bid to start a war between them & sell his highly advanced arms & weapons to the highest bidders , simple right ? Well no not really because the British government agent known as ' M ' ( Richard Roxburgh ) has been busy assembling the league of extraordinary gentlemen , a collection of some the most unique & talented individuals that live including famed adventurer & leader of the league Allan Quartermain ( Sean Connery who executive produced as well ) . Along side him are Captain Nemo ( Naseeruddin Shah ) , the immortal Dorian Gray ( Stuart Townsend ) , slinky female vampire Mina Harker ( Peta Wilson ) , the invisible Rodney Skinner ( Tony Curran ) , Dr . Henry Jekyll ( Jason Flemyng ) & his alter-ego Edward Hyde & American secret service agent Tom Saywer ( Shane West ) who are all ready to go into battle & use their individual abilities to defeat The Phantom & prevent a world war . . . Directed by Stephen Norrington I thought The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen was a pretty decent big budget special effects fest that is worth watching if you want some mindless action . The script by James Robinson is based on the Alan Moore & Kevin O'Neill comic books & takes several well known character's from various literature sources & sticks them all together to create The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen , even though the script itself has no regard for the character's original origins & does little to try & keep them as they were in their original outings . The basic idea of bringing together some of these character's & teaming them up to fight evil sounds like a decent idea but the story is far from extraordinary & to be honest I'd even struggle to call it anything better than just plain ordinary . The twists & turns are pretty obvious , have no impact & fall very flat , the story is really basic & extremely thin , I mean the average James Bond film was doing these ludicrous bad guy wants to control the world type stories virtually half a century ago & The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen offers little else other than a lot of flashy CGI effects . Having said that it's still good entertainment , it's fun , it moves along at a fair pace & never really bores plus there are some impressive individual scenes in it although by the middle of next week I'll probably have forgotten all about it . Director Norrington does a fine job , The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen has wonderful production design , fabulous costumes , sets , top-notch special effects & I love that over-the-top Rolls Royce type car Capatin Nemo has . I'm positive there are loads of references to the character's original literature source's if you look & listen carefully enough . The filmmakers were obviously aiming for a teen audience & as a result the violence is tame & the fights lacklustre , they just don't have any edge & lack a bit of excitement . With a supposed budget of about $78 , 000 , 000 The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen looks fabulous with fantastic CGI effects but for that money what else would you expect ? Apparently shot all over the place including California , Canada , Iceland , Malta , Morocco , Austria & Prague in the Czech Republic . The acting was alright considering the material was somewhat thin & silly , Connery is still class & could act in his sleep . The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen is , frankly , ordinary . It's a big budget mindless way to pass just under a couple of hours but the story is weak & the character's aren't really used to their full potential while the film has little regard for their origins . Worth a watch for sure but , special effects apart , don't expect anything amazing .
" When I met you you were a two bit hooker working lice ridden motels . " Decent Quincy episode .	Quincy M . E . Never a Child starts as a young twelve year old girl named Amanda ( Melora Hardin ) steps off a bus & into Los Angeles main coach terminal , having run away from home Amanda has nowhere to go or sleep . A man who calls himself ' Uncle Harry ' ( Alan Manson ) spots Amanda , befriends her & convinces her to trust him & go with him . A woman named Sophie Thomas ( Jane Ralston ) in the coach station sees Uncle Harry & recognises him as a maker of kiddie porn films & realises that he intends Amanda to be his next victim , however Harry spots her & chases Sophie to the top of a nearby building & pushes her off . Sophie ends up on Los Angeles coroner Quincy's ( Jack Klugman ) autopsy table & he finds enough evidence to conclude Sophie was murdered , after finding out about Uncle Harry Quincy is determined to find him , save Amanda & put him away for murder . . . Episode 4 from season 5 this Quincy story was directed by Ray Danton & is a pretty good moralistic episode so far as the moralistic ones go . Here in Never a Child the Quincy production team decided to tackle the somewhat seedy & unpalatable issue of kiddie porn which doesn't really make for a pleasant fifty minutes . It's not so much that Never a Child is well written , harrowing or well acted it's just the mere thought of kiddie porn & the extremely nasty aftertaste it leaves . There's a murder to kick the episode off with but that is quickly brushed to one side & Never a Child is split between two distinct angles , there's the angle that follows Quincy around trying to find Uncle Harry & single handedly solve Los Angeles runaway problem & the angle where Uncle Harry arranges for the kiddie porn film to made & his slimy advances on Amanda which make for uncomfortable viewing , again not because they are particularly well written or acted but simply because of what these sequences insinuate & imply . There's also a subplot about young runaways not getting any help from the Los Angeles official's & as usual Quincy has many heated arguments with bureaucrat's as he fights red tape & prejudice on a moral crusade . A watchable enough episode but there aren't really any mystery elements in it & for me it did leave a unpleasant aftertaste . As usual for Quincy this episode is well made but rather unremarkable . There isn't too much humour in this one except for an amusing scene when Quincy questions a man in a health shop & the guy says he likes a challenge & that Quincy is out of shape , looks old & needs all sorts of potions & creams to make himself look younger . The acting is alright but Klugman & the regulars are far better than the guest stars . Never a Child is an alright episode of Quincy , to be honest it's rather more heavy than I would like & while the intention was right it can't really do such a weighty issue justice . Fans should like it & I still think it's perfectly watchable if nothing else though .
An OK murder mystery or to give it it's proper name a ' giallo ' .	Carol Hammond ( Florinda Bolkan ) lives in a wealthy part of London in a flat with her Husband Frank ( Jean Sorel ) and stepdaughter Joan ( Ely Galleani as Edy Gall ) . Carol is an insomniac and lately has been having strange and totally bizarre dreams about her next door neighbour Julia Durer ( Anita Strindberg ) that involve lesbianism , long boots and a fur coat , and who in reality holds drug and sex fuelled parties that annoy Carol , her family and the rest of their neighbours . Carol has been seeing a psychologist called Dr . Kerr ( Georges Rigaud ) to try and learn the meaning of her dreams and help cure her insomnia . During one such session she talks of having a dream where she murdered Julia with a paper knife . Soon after Carol learns from a Mrs . Gordon ( Erzsi Paal as Ersi Pond ) that Julia has been killed in real life , exactly like the way it happened in her dream . Insector Corvin ( Stanley Baker ) and Sergeant Brandon ( Alberto De Mendoza ) are put straight on the case . Together with someone from the ' scientific squad ' ( yeah right , I've lived in the UK all my life and they aren't called the scientific squad ! ) called Lowell ( Ezio Marano ) they make a load of implausible assumptions , and the fact that it was Carol's own paper knife that was used to stab Julia , they come to the conclusion that Carol may be responsible , however Carol claims she has never even spoke to Julia before and denies the accusation . Carol's Father Edmund Brighton ( Leo Genn ) luckily happens to be a hot shot lawyer and takes on the case together with Frank whom works for Edmund . Meanwhile Joan and Carol set out to find a couple of hippies who were at the party that night , Jenny ( Penny Brown ) and Hubert ( Mike Kennedy ) . Things turn even more mysterious and complicated when an attempt is made on Carol's life , and it comes to light that Julia may have been blackmailing Frank over an affair he is having with a woman named Deborah ( Silvia Monti ) . Who is responsible for the murder ? Who is trying to kill Carol ? Will Corvin and Brandon get to the bottom of the mystery ? Who knows ? Watch it to find out ! Co-written and directed by Lucio Fulci and known more commonly under the title of A Lizard in a Woman's Skin , I thought this was a pretty good murder mystery who dun-nit , probably one of Fulci's better films . The London locations are used well throughout , especially the sequence where Carol is chased through a church and onto it's roof , it was actually Woburn Abby that the filmmakers used for this scene . The film has good production design and values plus a nice atmosphere to it throughout . There's a surprising lack of gore and violence , just Julia Durer being stabbed . There's more nudity than violence with most of the female cast getting undressed at one point or another . The script by Fulci , Roberto Gianviti , Jose Luis Martinez Molla and Andre Tranche concentrates on Julia's murder and the subsequent investigation , it's not a slasher film where random people are killed for the hell of it so don't expect a high body count . Therefore it may be a little slow for certain tastes , but try not to let that put you off as it's overall quite a rewarding film to watch , and it certainly kept me watching right through to the twist ending . There are various red-herrings to keep the viewer guessing , just about everyone seems to have both opportunity and motive . One thing I would like to mention at this point is that I managed to guess the killer's identity quite early on , it was a complete fluke as I just thought about the most implausible conclusion and to my surprise I was right ! Technically the film is fine , photography , editing , acting and music . I'm not sure if I would want to see it again in a hurry as the story obviously loses it's impact and it's surprises are no longer surprising ! A good , well made , solid and entertaining giallo that I recommend to all interested in the genre , and it's a film that may appeal to a wider audience too . Give it a try , you might like it .
" He's as phony as a three dollar bill . " Good Quincy episode .	Quincy M . E . : Into the Murdering Mind starts as Mrs . Werner ( Conchata Ferrell ) arrives home to find her husband Jeffrey , her daughter Rebecca & son Ryan all brutally murdered . L . A . coroner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) is on the case & even he is shocked at the brutality of the murders , it's not long before Lt . Monahan ( Garry Walberg ) has a suspect in custody . Glenn Werner ( Kelly Ward ) is accused of murdering his own father , brother & sister but is regarded as mentally ill & under Californian law if found insane could get as little as 90 days in a mental institute . Quincy's moral conscious is aroused & he sets out to try & put Glenn behind bars for as long as possible . . . Episode 14 from season 7 this Quincy story was directed by Georg Fenady & again sees everyone's favourite coroner on a crusade to set another of the world's injustices to rights , there's not much lab work in this one & he doesn't get to use his medical skills to solve any crime & it's a pretty open & shut case . Instead Into the Murdering Mind concentrates on it's moral message about the slackness in the law surrounding mentally ill people & the fact that they are not held accountable for their crimes , having said that since this was made back in ' 82 over 25 years ago the laws it refers to may have changed . Unusually for Quincy this episode has a quite downbeat ending where , for a change , Quincy doesn't have it all his own way . This is a decent enough story , it moves along at a nice enough pace & it's a perfectly entertaining way to pass an hour even if Quincy doesn't get to play detective . I don't know whether the version I saw was cut but during the opening montage before the credits which show brief scenes from the episode contains footage that wasn't actually in it , a shot of Glenn moving towards his father with a knife can be seen here but not in the finished episode proper . The acting is pretty good as usual except Ferrell who doesn't seem that bothered that her husband , daughter & son have all been brutally murdered by her mentally ill offspring . Into the Murdering Mind is a good Quincy story , I wouldn't call it a classic but as a fan of the show I still liked it anyway .
" Quince . . . sometimes your a genius . " Classic Quincy episode .	Quincy M . E . : Images starts late on night as Los Angeles coroner & chief medical examiner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) arrives at a burnt down motel room where a badly burnt body has been found , all the evidence points to the body being that of the highest paid TV reporter on the box Jessica Ross ( Jessica Walter ) . With everyone waiting with baited breath as whether it was Ross Quincy calls a press conference where he announces that the body recovered was indeed that of Jennifer Ross but just after he confirms it a woman bursts into the room claiming to be Jessica Ross , Quincy is shocked as all the physical evidence points to the body being Jennifer Ross but a person who looks exactly like Ross is alive & well standing right in front of him . Quincy has caused the department a lot of embarrassment & puts his own job on the line to prove one way or another that Jennifer Ross is dead & that an impostor has taken her place . . . Episode 5 from season 4 this Quincy story was directed by Ray Danton & continues the generally high standard of season four , well as long as you try to forget about A Test for the Living ( 1978 ) anyway . The basic premise here is very intriguing & it hooks you straight away , this woman who all the physical evidence points to being dead is apparently alive & well . It's a just a great story & again show's the wide variety of story lines Quincy as a show had & that it could come up with something a bit different from the norm to make what would otherwise be a basic murder mystery slightly more interesting . Like most episodes Quincy has to put his professional reputation on the line to prove his instincts & findings but unlike most episodes he comes under real threat here as he is suspended from his job & will be fired so there's even more at stake than usual . It's not an absolute classic though , the story is a little predictable as the whole twin thing is the only way the writers could go . Also it's a stretch to think that a twin of one of the most famous people in America wouldn't be recognised , in fact Dr . Asten brings that very point up early on & no satisfactory explanation is ever given for it . Then there's the fact that Quincy broke into Jessica's dressing room to look for evidence & was caught , OK so he turned out to be right but he still broke the law & wouldn't the acting of breaking & entering & an illegal search be just as harmful to his reputation ( maybe more so ) as making a mistake based on the evidence at hand ? As usual this is competently made but not much to look at . Now there's the traditional comedy moment happy ending at Danny's which is expected but where the hell did Quincy get a chimpanzee ! ? Did he just borrow it ? Did he say to the local zoo ' I want to insult my mate Danny by comparing him to a chimpanzee so can I borrow yours ? ' ! ? I mean what the hell does a chimpanzee have to do with anything anyway ? The acting is alright with veteran film & TV actor Whit Bissell who has almost 300 separate film & TV credits making a small appearance as a Beverly Hills doctor . Images is a good solid murder mystery Quincy episode , OK it's even more far fetched than usual & one has to say it's a touch predictable since there's only one way the story can go which does hurt it a bit . Still a good episode though & worth watching .
" Your eyes , I've got a box full of eyes but not like yours . " Maybe I've missed something important .	Malpertuis starts as a sailor named Jan ( Mathieu Carriere ) arrives at his home port only to discover his old house has collapsed , he ends up in a seedy bar where a fight breaks out & he is knocked unconscious . When he comes round Jan finds himself being tended to by his sister Nancy ( Susan Hampshire ) in his Uncle Quentin Cassavius ' ( Orson Welles ) imposing old house called Malpertuis , they are also joined by various other family members & obscure relatives as Cassavius is not far from death & he has ordered a reading of his will . The will states that his immense fortune will be split equally but the inheritors can never leave the grounds of Malpertuis ever again which sounds a bit harsh to me but there you go , anyway it becomes apparent to Jan that all is not right at Malpertuis & that it's hiding some bizarre secrets that Jan finds himself in the center of . . . This French , Belgium & German co-production was directed by Harry Kumel & didn't do much for me but that could be down to other factors besides the film at hand , you see apparently there's a long 2 hour odd version of Malpertuis & shorter cut down version & since the one I watched yesterday ran for less than 90 minutes I think it's safe to assume I'm missing out on a lot so maybe you should bear that in mind although what the extra footage is & whether it would have improved my viewing experience I don't know . The slightly slow going script by Jean Ferry was based on a novel by Jean Ray & has a certain loose strange bizarre quality to it , while it's an odd film for sure I have to say I always knew what was going on & it's not abstract or weird in that sense but weird in the sense of what's happening on screen . Who was the supposed killer ? Is this answered in the longer version ? Were little stitched together people really running around in the attic ? Again , is this made clear in the longer version ? I don't know which is why I feel awkward about either praising or rubbishing the film because I'm not quite sure where the version I saw stands , going by the 90 minute cut alone I thought it was OK & nothing more although I must admit I quite liked the twist ' come out of absolute nowhere ' ending which I deify anyone to see coming . . . Director Kumel does a good job & there are plenty of memorable scenes plus the film has a great atmosphere about it . The house itself is nice & imposing & there's some cool production design . I wouldn't call any of it particularly scary though , there's not much gore apart from a bit when an Eagle eats someone's guts & someone gets a nail through their head although it's off screen . Technically Malpertuis is good , impressive even with decent production values . Since the film was made in Dutch & dubbed into English it's hard to tell about the acting although maybe Welles spoke English during filming & he stands head & shoulders above everyone else in the cast & puts in a memorable performance for the brief screen time he gets . Malpertuis , also known as The Legend of Doom House , is an OK horror / mystery / thriller but I can't help but feel I wish I'd seen the long version because as it stands I think I'm missing out on a potentially better film . However the version I watched is the version I watched & that's all there is to it , as it stands it's a decent enough film but it didn't do much for me & I doubt I'll be in any hurry to see this 90 minute cut again anytime soon .
An odd film that almost works but doesn't quite .	Hudson Hawk starts as the world's best cat burglar Eddie ' Hudson Hawk ' Hawkins ( Bruce Willis ) is let out of jail after a long visit , he isn't even out of the place when his corrupt parole officer Gates ( Burtt Harris ) tries to get him to rob an auction house . Hawk isn't interested & just wants a coffee , however back at his friend Tommy's ( Danny Aiello ) bar the Mario brothers ( Ha ! ) who run New Jersey's third largest crime family threaten to cut his balls off which is all the motivation Hawk needs ( whimp ) . Hawk is told to steal a bronze horse made by Leonardo Da Vinci which he does , afterwards he is contacted by CIA agent George Kaplan ( James Coburn ) & a pair of billionaire megalomaniacs Darwin ( Richard E . Grant ) & Minerva Mayflower ( Sandra Bernhard ) who blackmail him into stealing a book by Da Vinci , which he does . But it doesn't stop there as Hawk finds himself in the middle of a plot to overthrow the world's economy ! Wow . Directed by Michael Lehmann Hudson Hawk was absolutely mauled upon it's initial release by critics & was a major flop at the box-office , however having said that I didn't think it was all bad & there's a certain odd entertainment value here . The script by Daniel Waters & Steven E . de Souza is a slapstick comedy action adventure that doesn't quite work , it has some amusing moments & it has some mildly exciting ones but it doesn't quite gel . The goofy slapstick comedy moments overshadow the more serious action ones & it's hard to get excited especially when there are scenes like when Willis is sliding across as zip-wire & when shot he lands on top of a lamp post , perfectly balanced too . There are all sorts of odd double crosses & a bizarre collection of character's although the Mayflower's should have been in it much more as they were actually quite funny & sinister at the same time . Some of the jokes & gags work while other's don't , the little sketch at the start with Da Vinci & the Mona Lisa is amusing for instance while scenes like bad guy's with bombs stuck to their foreheads desperately trying to remove them aren't . The action scenes vary as well with Hawk being pulled along on a stretcher behind an ambulance & smoking a cigarette thrown from a nearby car coming across as very silly . It's really hard to review Hudson Hawk because I think it's one of those films you will either love or hate , although having said that I'm now going to totally contradict myself as I thought it was somewhere between the two being OK ! Lehmann's career was more or less over after this tanked at the box-office , he's since gone on to make TV episodes of various show's & the odd film as well . The film looks nice enough thanks to a big budget , the action scenes are alright if a bit silly & it's got a bit of style about it . Back in 1992 Hudson Hawk won 3 Razzie awards for worst director ( a bit harsh ) , worst picture ( I'd have to see what it was up against ) & worst screenplay ( again I'd have to see what else was nominated ) & was nominated for another 3 for worst actor , worst supporting actor & worst supporting actress while in 2000 it was nominated for another Razzie as the worst film of the decade which it clearly didn't deserve to win & didn't . That's a lot of hate amongst that lot , wouldn't you say ? With a budget of about $65 , 000 , 000 this had a lot of money spent on it & it shows as it looks nice enough with that Hollywood look to it , the special effects are good & it's well made . The acting is very over-the-top especially by villains Richard E . Grant & Sandra Bernhard although they are fun & make for the best two character's in the film . Hudson Hawk is a difficult film to recommend as most people hate it although it does have some fans , personally I thought it was OK & is something a bit different even if it's not a total success .
Solid if unspectacular Quincy episode .	Quincy M . E . : Mode of Death starts as Los Angeles chief medical examiner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) is called to a seedy cheap motel room where the body of evangelist & founder of the Devine World Church religion Franklin Osborne ( Byron Morrow ) has been found dead with a half empty bottle of Scotch Whiskey & a half empty bottle of pills found nearby . At first Lt . Monahan ( Garry Walberg ) suspects suicide , Quincy's autopsy proves inconclusive since the amount of alcohol & drugs in Osborne's system is marginal both ways & could have been a deliberate suicide or a simple accident . Quincy decides to delve further & orders a psychological autopsy to be carried out to find out Osborne's mental state & whether it was an accident , suicide or maybe even murder . . . Episode 7 from season 5 this Quincy story was directed by Rob Holcomb & is a good solid Quincy episode that entertains & is perfectly watchable although it's doesn't stay too long on the memory . The script was in part written by Jack Klugman's sister Deborah ( keeping it in the family . . . ) & starts off reasonably well with a dead body found in mysterious circumstances in a motel room that at first looks like a typical case for Quincy to get his investigative teeth stuck into but after about the ten minute mark the episode shifts rather suddenly into moralistic message mode as Quincy orders a psychological autopsy & we follow Dr . Chase around as he treads very carefully around Osborne's friends & family to try & decide if he committed suicide or not hence the title Mode of Death . During this period Quincy takes a back seat & he's barely in it , apart from a classic scene between him & Asten over money & who is paying for the psychological autopsy as Quincy waves a dollar bill in his bosses face . Then about five minutes before the end Quincy does what he should have in the first place & proves Osborne was murdered . There's a fair amount of preaching about suicide & those who are contemplating it , it's the usual ' they need help ' message with a bit of ' if they didn't need help then they wouldn't be trying to commit suicide ' thrown in there as well . At only fifty odd minutes the episode moves along at a decent pace , the murder mystery element is packed into the last five minutes with a fairly dull psychological autopsy subplot taking up much of the duration & overall it's watchable if ultimately a bit forgettable . As usual this episode is well made & competent but hardly going to win any awards for style . There's some nice humour like usual & the killer isn't too obvious . The acting is alright , as usual the regular's outshine the guest star's by a large margin . The guy who plays Kenneth Ross in particular is poor with a terrible accent & voice . Mode of Death isn't the best episode of Quincy out there but it's still perfectly watchable & entertaining , maybe the fact Quincy isn't in it that much doesn't help & there are other Quincy episodes I would rather watch over Mode of Death but even average Quincy is still better than most telly show's at their best .
Classic Quincy .	Quincy M . E . : The Deadly Connection starts as Dr . Asten ( John S . Ragin ) calls LA coroner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) & his trusty lab assistant Sam Fujiyama ( Robert Ito ) into his office , Asten tells Quincy that his expertise has been requested in a small town in Arizona called Porterville in which there has been a mysterious outbreak of some sort of unidentified epidemic . Quincy & Sam are on the next plane out there , they meet up with Dr . Jessop who has 18 very ill patients on his hands but no clue whatsoever why they are so ill . It's up to Quincy to use his detective & medical skills to find the common cause , identify the illness & cure it . All in days work for him then really . . . Episode 11 from season 3 this Quincy story was directed by Alec Marol & I wouldn't call it a classic episode by any stretch of the imagination but taken in it's own right it ain't too bad . The script here rather dubiously has Quincy who is an LA coroner don't forget travel out to Arizona by request of Dr . Jessop to assist him in the identification & cure of a potentially fatal epidemic . I'm sorry but right away I'm asking the question what would a coroner know about epidemics & how would a coroners skills be put to use in such a situation ? I mean it's not exactly Quincy's field is it ? Wouldn't Dr . Jessop & the Porterville hospital have requested a specialist ? I mean forget about the fact Quincy is a part time police detective & human rights campaigner because although we know this Dr . Jessop wouldn't , all he would know is that Quincy is a coroner so what was Dr . Jessop expecting Quincy to do exactly ? Well if you take the huge leap of faith & accept that it might actually happen in reality The Deadly Connection is a decent way to pass 50 odd minutes , I'm a big Quincy fan so maybe I'm biased but I liked it . I liked the mystery elements even though the eventual resolution is far from startling , I just like seeing Quincy run around like a bull in a China shop trying to get to truth while fighting against red tape & bureaucratic officials . Hey , it's what he does best . The twist at the end of this one isn't great & feels a bit routine but it works well enough all the same . Unusually for an episode of Quincy not one single person dies in The Deadly Connection & Quincy doesn't perform or oversee an autopsy either . Being set in Arizona the scenery is different as well although I still suspect it was shot somewhere in Los Angeles . There's one of those really cheesy light hearted happy endings as well in which Sam tries to turn Quincy into a cowboy by buying him a huge stetson hat , Quincy tries it on , everyone laughs , the end . Quality writing . The Deadly Connection is a fine episode of Quincy , it's not the best one they ever made but it's far from the worst & doesn't have any horrible moral message . Worth a watch for sure .
Decent Quincy episode .	Quincy M . E . : Sullied Be Thy Name starts as Los Angeles coroner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) is called out to the scene of a death , Lt . Monahan ( Garry Walberg ) requested Quincy personally since the deceased Father Martin Torrell was a good friend . Father Torrell's body has been found in the bed in an apartment of a prostitute ( E . J . Peaker ) which if proved would destroy his impeccable name & reputation . Clues are thin on the ground but Quincy does find evidence that the body was moved although Father Torrell definitely died of natural causes , but who would want to move the body & why ? Maybe porn king Charles Desskasa ( John Saxon ) had enough motive since Father Torrell was on a crusade against pornography & Desskasa in particular . . . Episode 11 from season 2 this Quincy story was directed by Jackie Cooper & is an entertaining Quincy mystery . I wouldn't call Sullied Be Thy Name a Quincy classic since there isn't actually a murder in it , Father Torrell dies of natural causes & I like the murder mystery episodes so I can't say this is one of my favourites . It's OK though & still watchable , the story is a little different & the ending isn't too predictable either . The whole story does feel a little improbable though & the guilty party does take a hell of a chance for ultimately not that much gain , I mean why didn't they just phone the police & say Father Torrell died of a heart attack ? It's natural causes & they would have been totally in the clear . Moving the body & leaving themselves open for all sorts of charges just didn't have that much benefit compared to the consequences if they were caught . Well , that's just my opinion anyway for what it's worth . I liked it though as it still had all the aspects which make for a good Quincy episode . Here in Sullied Be Thy Name low budget film icon John Saxon makes a guest appearance as a publisher of a porn magazine called ' Phantasie ' ! We know he's a big porn king because he wears a really bad Hawaiian type shirt which he leaves unbuttoned down to his waist , he wears lots of expensive looking ' bling ' jewellery as well just to complete the ' chav ' look including lots of rings & even a large gold medallion around his neck ! Sullied Be Thy Name is a good watchable mystery Quincy episode , the lack of a murder doesn't help it & the eventual explanation & motivations are a little flimsy for me . Fans of the show should still like it .
" This isn't a Bruce Lee film you know . " Decent Quincy episode .	Quincy M . E . : Sword of Honor , Blade of Death starts as Sam ( Robert Ito ) discovers that his close friend & L . A . cop Michael Moroshima has been murdered , however he still insists on assisting Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) with the autopsy because he's just a god damned professional . The cause of death was the piercing of the heart with a scalpel sharp blade , Sam tells Quincy about the Yakuza the Japanese equivalent of the American mafia & that Moroshima's death was probably due to a Yakuza hit-man . The mystery deepens as they find out Moroshima was on a special assignment , Sam's heritage & Asian background comes into play when he feels morally obliged to become involved in Moroshima's death & track down those responsible . . . Episode 10 from season 8 this Quincy story was directed by Ray Danton & is a neat enough episode but not one I consider amongst the show's best . For a start Quincy himself in this episode is very subdued , I don't think he gets angry , shouts or makes an impassioned speech once ! Now what good is an episode of Quincy without Klugman completely losing it on at least one occasion ? None , that's what . In fact the more I think about it the more I realise Quincy doesn't really do anything in this episode & it's his trusty lab assistant Sam who does the detective work & gets into trouble . While Sam makes for a perfectly likable sidekick with all due respect that's all he is , a sidekick for Quincy to bounce ideas off & shout at . Then there's the whole Japanese Yakuza angle , the old guy who is supposedly one of the biggest crime bosses in Japan & he only brings two bodyguards ? I don't know , it just felt cheap & poorly staged & without Klugman to help you ignore the low budget short comings it looks a bit tatty & unimpressive . I could have done without the sentimental ' code of honour ' type message during this episode , it's been done to death & it's rather cheesy here . This one looks alright , the so-called Japanese guy's are obviously American actors & would one police officer be allowed to listen in on a conversation between two mafia bosses without at least some backup ? Didn't anyone know where he was ? Considering they couldn't work out where he was killed to start with I guess not . Japanese character actor Mako was making his second of two guest appearances on Quincy after Touch of Death during season 3 , apparently he died one day after being officially announced as the voice of Master Splinter in TMNT ( 2007 ) . Sword of Honor , Blade of Death is an OK time waster , it's not classic Quincy because he's barely in it & he doesn't get angry , shout or make a speech so that lowers the entertainment value straight away & Sam just isn't a Quincy is he ? Which is why he's the assistant & Quincy is the star , harsh but true . Good but not great .
" Is it murder when you step on a cockroach ? All you did was take out a piece of garbage . " Decent Quincy episode .	Quincy M . E . : The Hero Syndrome starts as vicious loan shark Jake Henaffy ( Roy Jordan ) hassles lowly dock worker Peter Thorwall ( Robert Walker ) for the money he owes , things turn violent & Peter hits Jake around the head with a crowbar & then runs away . The next morning & Henaffy's body is on Los Angeles coroner Quincy's ( Jack Klugman ) autopsy table & he is sure he's looking at a case of cold blooded murder , Lt . Monahan ( Garry Walberg ) says he has a signed confession from Thorwall stating that he killed Henaffy with a crowbar , however this doesn't tally with Quincy's autopsy findings since Henaffy died from severe blood loss after being sliced open with a bailing hook . Monahan wants an easy life & pleads with Quincy not to complicate matters but Quincy is convinced Thorwall didn't kill Henaffy & sets out to prove it . . . Episode 9 from season 3 this Quincy story was directed by Gerald Mayer & is a nice solid entry in the series without ever reaching the heights of greatness . Again The Hero Syndrome proves Quincy as a series had a wide variety of story lines as this time out Quincy has to prove a man innocent even though he's admitted his guilt , so without any help from Thorwall he has to use his medical skills & knowledge to help the kid out . I really like the basic premise behind this one but I think more could have been done with it , this one descends into a rather predictable & hurried murder mystery with an unsatisfactory climax . This episode also tries to say something about the culture in America where killers are considered hero's & the inadequacies of the American legal system just like most episodes of this show . This episode isn't perfect though , I thought the real killer confessed far too easily at the end & what about the loan shark's money ? The $18 , 000 Hennafy had on him & was stolen ? Technically Peter still owed Mr . Antrim that money so what happened ? It's never resolved is it ? I mean did Antrim just forget about his 18 grand & leave Peter alone ? I wouldn't have thought so . There's a humorous sub-plot in The Hero Syndrome where Quincy's doctor says he's developing an ulcer & needs to calm down , so every time Quincy starts to shout or get angry he gulps down an ant-acid tablet ! Everyone starts thinking something is wrong with him because he's acting so normally & he even goes on a diet too . This one looks alright , it's competently made but visually not worth anything . I love the funny scene at the start of this episode where to demonstrate Jake Henaffy is a mean guy & a real bad-ass he shoves Peter's head in a bowl of popcorn ! Wow , now I'm sacred of him . The acting is OK , the regulars do a good job with the guest stars not making much of an impact . The Hero Syndrome is a good solid Quincy murder mystery , unfortunately there were a couple of things which bugged me & didn't work for me , particularly the way the real killer confesses so easily . Good but not great .
Decent Quincy episode .	Quincy M . E . : The Eye of the Needle starts with Los Angeles coroner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) & his boss Dr . Asten ( John S . Ragin ) attending a lecture about holistic medicine by Dr . Barri Stodder ( Frances Lee McCain ) who is a practitioner of the controversial technique . The next morning & Quincy is outraged to find that the body of Helen Burnett ( Sally Kemp ) has ended up on his autopsy table after an ulcer burst killing her , Quincy is shocked that the ulcer was in such an advanced & untreated state . After learning that Dr . Stodder treated Helen with naturalistic techniques rather than proved medical ones Quincy talks to her & becomes convinced that she was not responsible for the death , Quincy then has to investigate Helen's death further in order to find out what killed her before Dr . Stodder's holistic clinic is closed down for good . . . Episode 23 from season 4 this Quincy story was directed by Ronald Satlof & one can't help but notice & comment on the similarities between The Eye of the Needle & another Quincy episode from season four Death by Good Intentions since they are virtually the same in both plot & resolution . Like in Death by Good Intentions here Quincy has to go back & examine a case to uncover the truth in order to save a friends career which is put in jeopardy when one their patients die & they are blamed for it , Quincy uses his medical expertise to prove that they weren't responsible & that someone committed murder . It's actually quite striking how similar the two episodes are right down to an antagonistic fellow professional who wants to see the said Doctor in question ruined & an expensive lawsuit issued by the relatives of the deceased . So in essence they are pretty much the same & in that regard they are both perfectly entertaining episodes that have a moral message put to the viewer from both sides ( although it's made clear which side ' we ' should be on ) for the first half & more of a murder mystery during the second half as Quincy does what he does best . Not a bad episode at all . This is yet another unremarkable episode that is functional but not much to look at , the one thing that does stick out in The Eye of the Needle is that it must feature the tallest mugger in history ! The guy who plays the mugger is huge ! Just look at how long his legs are in full length shots . The Eye of the Needle is a perfectly entertaining episode of Quincy that mixes the usual moral messages & murder mysteries well enough , I liked it . It's not a classic episode but I liked it .
Flawed Quincy episode .	Quincy M . E . : Semper-Fidelis starts at 2AM early one morning in Camp Pendleton US Marine Corp where Gunnery Sgt . Alistair Adams ( John Karlen ) wakes his squad up for an unexpected training mission over rough terrain & a river , however tragedy strikes & a young recruit named Charles Casey is found dead face down in the river . Wanting independent verification of his findings Capatin Harry Collier ( Allan Miller ) contacts his close friend Los Angeles coroner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) who agrees to autopsy the body & give a second opinion . What started out as a simple case of neglect & accidental drowning turns into a full blown murder investigation as Quincy finds proof that Casey was deliberately & premeditatedly killed . . . Episode 20 from season 4 this Quincy story was directed by Tony Mordente & is a nice little mystery based episode which has one or two decent twists like Quincy having to change his mind several times about what really happened to Casey as conflicting & confusing evidence piles up . Like a lot of Quincy episodes this tries to have a moral message about the establishment & bureaucracy although it doesn't get in the way of the main story that much . What I didn't like about Semper-Fidelis is the eventual outcome , without wishing to give the ending away completely the medical & physical probability of what is supposed to have happened is rather small . If you drop an egg from waist height onto concrete it will smash , right ? Of course it will . If you drop a man off a 30 foot plus high bridge & his head lands smack bang on a solid granite rock what do you think will happen ? The writers of this episode would try & have us believe that the man would sustain a small bruise behind his ear & nothing else , I think not guy's . This is one of those Quincy episodes where the majority of the action takes place out of the laboratory environment & out of Los Angeles , in this case Camp Pendleton in San Diego which is probably where some of it was actually filmed . For those of us who don't know the strange sounding title Semper-Fidelis is actually Latin for ' Always Faithful ' & is the motto of the US Marine Corp . One of the few totally Lt . Monahan & Danny free episodes . The acting is alright here with the regulars better than the guests as usual . Semper-Fidelis is an OK Quincy episode let down by some very shaky medical & physical explanations that I struggle to find credible . It's a decent enough watch but a little sloppy at times .
Not brilliant , but not as bad as some people make out .	The film opens at night , off the coast of an island in Jamaica . A young couple are scuba diving in an old ship wreck , the Dwight Fitzgerald . They start to explore the wreck , all of a sudden they take their scuba gear and swim wear off and start to have sex , at this point I found myself asking how they intend to breathe . , before I could think of a reasonable answer they are both attacked and eaten by a shoal of vicious genetically engineered flying piranhas ! Wow , a pretty good start , we've already seen underwater sex , nudity , killer flying piranha that make a silly noise , and a couple of deaths and we're less than ten minutes into the film . Unfortunately the film can't maintain this pace or level of incident , as for the next thirty or so minutes after the opening credits , we are subjected to constant unnecessary character development that doesn't really develop the characters much at all . We are introduced to our main characters including , Anne Kimbrough ( Tricia O'Neil ) a scuba diving instructor and tour guide , her ex husband Steve Kimbrough ( the always reliable Lance Henriksen ) who appears to be the local law enforcement officer and their son Chris ( Ricky G . Paull ) . We are also introduced to all the fish food . Basically the guests of a beach side resort . These scenes drag and get dull very quickly . At about the thirty minute mark Anne takes her scuba diving class to explore the ship wreck . One of the group wanders off on his own , Anne swims around looking for him , when she does find him he's been half eaten . After some detective work like studying the wounds and another dive to the ship wreck she discovers the flying piranhas , but is it already too late ? Will she be able to convince the local authorities and the owners of the beach resort of the threat before everyone ends up as piranha fish food ? This was the directorial debut of the soon to be famous James Cameron , even though I don't think he brags it too often . Apparently executive producer Ovidio G . Assonitis was unhappy with Cameron's work and added scenes and re-cut the film before release . I would love to know the truth behind these stories and to watch Cameron's original cut , considering the films he's made since it's a safe bet it would have been better than what eventually ended up on cinema / TV screens . Anyway , I quite liked it for what it is , it's professionally enough made . Some of the flying piranha effects look a little dated and silly , but everything considered I thought they looked OK-ish . The special make up effects work better with some nice mangled corpses , severed chewed up heads and various bites , I just wish there was more of them . The film fails to build up much excitement or tension until the final twenty minutes or so when Anne and Tyler Sherman ( Steve Marachuk ) a biochemist who helped create the piranhas , plant bombs in the wreck and are trapped by the returning piranha and must find a way out or either be eaten or blown up . A bit too little , too late . The version I watched must have been uncut as it contains all the scenes the ' alternate versions ' section on the IMDb , there is some nudity there , and some reasonable gore . Apart from the painfully slow opening thirty or so minutes after the opening credits I quite liked it , in spite of it's faults . Worth a watch at least .
Decent classic Quincy episode .	Quincy M . E . : Smoke Screen starts as a fire breaks out in a Los Angeles hotel , the emergency services rush to the scene & the fire is eventually brought under control . Twelve people died in the fire & the coroner's office are in charge of the autopsies . While performing an autopsy on a lady named Marcia Hernandez coroner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) finds evidence she was murdered before the fire started . Meanwhile the police arrest known pyromaniac & arsonist Larry Mitchell ( Michael Mullins ) for the fire but he protests his innocence . At first everyone feel that they have the right guy but Quincy starts to become convinced that Larry is innocent & that his forensic findings may prove it . . . Episode 12 from season 7 this Quincy story was directed by Georg Fenady & one has to say that Smoke Screen is a pretty enjoyable fifty odd minutes & at least actually has some mystery elements . Smoke Screen like a lot of season seven tries to have a moral message behind it but unlike a lot of season seven actually has a strong crime element to it as well . The moral & social issues revolve around the fact that modern plastics & building materials cause poisonous gasses which can often be more fatal than the fire itself , that fact that buildings aren't required to have mandatory sprinkler systems installed ( not sure if that is still the case now in 2008 ) & that we should try to understand arsonists , we should set support groups up for them because in spite of setting fires & putting both property & lives in danger they aren't so bad after all , just a little misunderstood that's all . For my money if your an arsonist you belong behind bars & public money should not be wasted on support groups , maybe we should spend money on support groups & trained doctor's for every minor criminal offence including litter dropping . The one aspect of Smoke Screen I thought was lazy was during the end when the ' explanations ' are handed out over a few beers at Danny's no mention of the murdered woman Marcia Hernandez is made & therefore no reasonable motive for her actual murder is given . This episode actually reminded me of A Loss for Words ( 1983 ) from season eight in which another fire is investigated by Quincy & a fire investigator both times played by Gerald S . O'Loughlin although basically the same character he has different names in each episode . Both episodes also feature a fire that isn't quite what it seems at first . The opening of Smoke Screen features a terrible special effect of the hotel on fire , probably the single worst special effect in the whole eight seasons of Quincy in fact . The opening also features a fair amount of stock footage taken from another Universal TV series Emergency ! ( 1972 - 1979 ) & apparently specifically from an episode called The Steel Inferno ( 1978 ) from the seventh season . The footage from Emergency ! & the Quincy footage just doesn't quite match up . Smoke Screen is a good Quincy episode that mixes a moral & social issue with a good crime mystery that Quincy has to solve although the lack of any explanations for the murder of the woman is an odd omission that I found rather noticeable by it's absence .
" Don't you find it strange that we aren't related to any of our relatives ? " Good but could have been better .	Lemony Snicket's A Series of Unfortunate Events starts as three young children , Violet ( Emily Browning ) , her brother Klaus ( Liam Aiken ) & their sister Sunny Beaudelaire ( Kara & Shelby Hoffman ) are given the bad news that their parents have been killed in a fire which has burnt their house to the ground . They are adopted by a distant relative , the strange actor Count Olaf ( Jim Carrey ) who wants to kill them off to inherit their parents fortune . However the siblings quickly realise what Olaf is up to & must stay alert to outwit him & his attempts on their life as they search for the truth behind their parents death . . . This American German co-production was directed by Brad Silberling & is an entertaining enough Tim Burton / Grim Brother's dark fairytale type fantasy but I must admit it left me a bit unsatisfied . The script by Robert Gordon was based on the series of popular children's books Daniel Handler , in particular the first three The Bad Beginning , The Reptile Room & The Wide Window were used as the basis for the film , straight off the bat one has to say it's a children's film first & foremost although it's one of those children films which will probably appeal to adults as well . It's quite a grim film on occasion , it has some wonderfully spooky & dark production design & the narrator Lemony Snicket keeps telling us of horrible & terrible things that will happen but ( disappointingly ) it never goes too far . It certainly moves along at a nice pace , it's never boring but it never really excited me that much , it never really grabbed me , it never really got piqued my interest & it never really pulled me into the dark fantasy world that it creates . I didn't think it funny at all , again maybe because I'm an adult but I didn't laugh once . The character's are good enough , Count Olaf obviously stands out as the villain as he disguises himself as several different people to con his way to a fortune , Aunt Josephine is also memorable for her bizarre irrational fears although it's never quite explained who the narrator Lemony Snicket is . Director Silberling does a fine job & shoots the film with lots of neat little visual touches & lots of style , he is obviously helped by some truly wonderful production design from the sets , costumes & props . The designers have gone to town & the film looks great , from foggy beach's with picket fences , Count Olaf's gloomy rundown mansion that looks like something from The Addams Family , Dr . Montgomery's huge reptile sanctuary , Aunt Josephine's impossible house suspended over the edge of a sheer cliff by beams of wood , the speeding train & Count Olaf's sinister hearse looking car to a darkly atmospheric cave & lake . Most of the CGI computer effects are good although the deadly viper snake looks terrible . The violence is minimal so don't worry about that . With a supposed budget of about $140 , 000 , 000 this wasn't short of money was it ? Most of the money seems to have been spent on a good cast & the sumptuous production design which is nothing short of amazing , unfortunately everything else is somewhat harder to find including a satisfying story . Shot entirely within studios the film also features a dummy start where a film called The Little Elf supposedly begins before Lemony interrupts & starts his own story . The acting is good , Carrey was born for roles like this , Meryl Streep is good & Scottish comedian Billy Connolly has a small role . Lemony Snicket's A Series of Unfortunate Events is a good solid & entertaining children's darkly grim fantasy which serves it's purpose well enough , certainly no classic in my opinion but it's definitely worth a watch all the same & it should keep both young & old alike quiet for 100 odd minutes if nothing else .
Decent Quincy episode .	Quincy M . E . : Welcome to Paradise Palms starts as Los Angeles medical examiner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) gets a call from Roberta Wanaka ( Silvana Gallardo ) saying that her son & his foster son Chester ( Eddie Garcia ) is badly ill & ask's him for help . Quincy sets off for the town of Paradise Palms where Roberta & her son Chester lives nearby on a native Indian reservation , once there Quincy quickly diagnoses Chester with the bubonic plague , also known as the Black Death . Then more bubonic plague cases start being reported , with the grand opening of a new hotel & golf course Quincy & local doctor Paul Minnara ( Ronald Joseph ) face a race against time to find the source of the bubonic plague before the guests arrive & an epidemic occurs but local officials don't want any bad publicity & are very unhelpful . . . All the six's episode 6 from season 6 this Quincy story was directed by Georg Fenady & one has to say that while it's alright it's nothing amazing & is a fairly standard ' race against time & bureaucracy ' type plot , considering it's set on or near a new golf course it's all rather par for the course . Welcome to Paradise Palms is one of those Quincy episodes which ditches the traditional & familiar Los Angeles laboratory setting & takes place almost entirely in the small town of Paradise Palms where Quincy's foster son Chester lives . After a potentially deadly outbreak of botulism in Deadly Arena ( 1980 ) from the end of season five here Quincy has a race against time to find the source of bubonic plague & prevent an epidemic & again much like Deadly Arena Quincy works with another doctor & they both come up against unhelpful officials who are only interested in money rather than public health . Instead of the football stadium in Deadly Arena it's a hotel here , instead of the football spectators who are in danger in Deadly Arena it's the hotel guest's here , instead of botulism in Deadly Arena it's bubonic plague here , instead of the little girl Pele in Deadly Arena it's the young boy Chester here & instead of the unhelpful stadium manager refusing to start a panic & seemingly only interested in money here it's the unhelpful hotel manager who has the same motivations . To be honest the whole episode feels very familiar & there really isn't anything new here although it is fun & passes fifty odd minutes harmlessly enough . This episode also has a stab at highlighting the exploitation of native Indians , their land & the evils of big business which is also rather unoriginal but at least it tries . As usual this episode is well made but unremarkable , I would have imagined the shooting schedule was tight & it was a pretty much ' point the camera in the right direction & shoot ' type policy on Quincy . The scenery is quite nice I suppose if nothing else . The acting is alright & there's a nice sentimental moment for Quincy as he speaks with his ill foster son Chester referring to why he never had children of his own . Welcome to Paradise Palms is a pretty good ' race against time & bureaucracy ' type Quincy episode although Deadly Arena is better , there's a moral & social message which gets in the way at times but overall this is well worth a watch especially if you like the show anyway .
" There's enough people out there Quince who want to see you out of the way without robbing graves to find them . " More classic crime solving Quincy .	Quincy M . E . : The Unquiet Grave starts as L . A . county coroner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) & his boss Dr . Asten ( John S . Ragin ) plus his wife Louise ( Cynthia Harris ) arrive at a high society party held by a top political figure named Powell Dixon ( George Gaynes ) , they were invited by his wife & Quincy's old school love Jeannina ( Ina Balin ) . Quincy feels uncomfortable at first since she had some severe mental problems when he knew her but after a chat she seems fine , however the next morning Powell is found dead & Quincy has to perform the autopsy . He comes the the conclusion it was heart failure , then Jeannine is apparently killed in an explosion & when Quincy digs around a bit he discovers that all is not as it seems & that he has a case of double homicide on his hands & it could soon be three as an attempt is made on his own life . . . Episode 21 from season 7 this Quincy story was directed by Georg Fenady & is a rarity for season 7 in the fact that it doesn't have any sort of moral message or social issue to tell & concentrates purely on it's murder mystery plot . The actual murder plot here is a little far fetched & if you think about it too much there are just to many holes & areas where the killer couldn't have even hoped to get away with it . For instance with the medical techniques even back in ' 82 when this was made you just can't switch a body to try & fool everyone that you've been killed & then hope it will work because there are just so many ways to identify a body these days & a fully trained doctor should have known that , also if this killer was so brilliant & clever why did they assume the identity of the person they killed & actually live in their house too which would be the first place anyone who discovered their plan would go ? There are also various other little bits here & there which don't quite stand up to close scrutiny , having said that it's nice to see Quincy solving crimes again rather than running around on a moral crusade & it's still a fun episode with an entertaining if unlikely plot . Oh , I wonder if that kid got his knees broke in the end ? We never did find out what happened to him . . . This is an emotional episode for Quincy as he is reunited with his school love Jeannine & isn't overly pleased at what he sees , Klugman carries it off perfectly though with a genuine sadness , anger , regret & determination in another great performance . This one also has a fairly downbeat & sombre ending so don't expect the usual feel good comedy moment at Danny's at the end . The acting is good all round with Klugman stealing every scene he's in as usual . The Unquiet Grave is a good murder mystery for Quincy to solve but I felt it tried to be a bit too clever & in the end the plot had a few holes in it that spoilt it , it's still a fun episode to watch though & Klugman is on top form as usual . Not the best Quincy episode ever but not the worst either .
" I could no longer stand by & let him disgrace a pure woman . " The one where Sam gets the hump & quits .	Quincy M . E . : Touch of Death starts on the set of the ' new Bruce Lee ' kung-fu film star Tad Kimura during the shooting of his latest picture , after a carefully staged martial arts fight sequence Kimura drops down dead . Los Angeles coroner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) is called , the death of Kimura is more poignant & meaningful than usual as he was Sam's ( Robert Ito ) nephew . Initial examination suggests a heart attack while Lt . Monahan ( Garry Walberg ) finds a large bag of cocaine in Kimura's trailer , Quincy is unsure of the cause of death & has to perform an autopsy but Sam has followed traditional Japanese customs & taken Tad's body to his grieving father ( Cho-Li Chi ) who has forbidden an autopsy . Quincy is stuck in the middle , he doesn't want to hurt or upset anyone particularly Sam but he has to carry out an autopsy . Quincy insists & Sam resigns as once the autopsy is complete there are more questions than answers as usually people's liver don't just explode for no reason . . . Episode 10 from season 3 this Quincy story was directed by Alexander Singer & is one of those infamous camp classic Quincy episodes which when viewed today has so many unintentionally funny moments it's hard to take seriously but does provide 50 minutes worth of inoffensive fun . Apparently this episode was inspired by the mysterious death surrounding the real life kung-fu mega-star Bruce Lee after taking a headache tablet a few years earlier & the similarities are obvious to say the least , like a lot of Quincy episodes there's a moral message to Touch of Death in that you must obey local customs & live in the future rather than the past , now that's the boring bit out of the way there's lots here to laugh along with & entertain . The masked ninja assassin who attacks Quincy & breaks his arm before Quincy fights him off with a wine bottle , the hilarious scene when the fat guy from Goldfinger ( 1964 ) breaks the bricks using the ' vibrating palm ' technique & the scene at the end as when the killer is revealed they decides to jump out of an apartment block window to fall 100's of feet to their death below ! They didn't even open the window first either . If that wasn't enough Quincy gets a new lab assistant when Sam quits & she's a good looking girl named Lilly who then quits herself a few days later which means Sam can be reinstated after changing his mind , it's amazing how things work out eh ? Touch of Death sees a few firsts in Quincy , we see the inside of Sam's apartment for the first ( maybe only ) time & not content with lab work during the day he has a mini lab set up in his living room , there's a martial arts fight straight out of a kung-fu flick & Quincy is attacked by a ninja assassin which I also believe was the first time this happened . The cheesy happy comedy ending is also much better than usual , after working with Lilly it turns out her coffee is terrible so as a leaving / marriage present Quincy & the boy's buy her a coffee maker ! You get the irony ? Pure comedy genius ! There's no other words for it . The cast are alright here with a surprise appearance by Harold Sakata of the man with the razor brimmed bowler hat Oddjob from the James Bond flick Goldfinger fame , he's dubbed here in the most awful way possible & sounds ridiculous . Touch of Death isn't a great Quincy episode , the murder mystery isn't that great & the moral message is rather outdated but there are some truly classic so bad it's funny moments & while not as hilarious as the infamous Next Stop , Nowhere ( 1982 ) from season eight this is still pretty entertaining to watch .
Good Quincy episode without much Quincy .	Quincy M . E . : The Law is a Fool starts as Carl Norman ( Jeff Pomerantz ) kidnaps a young girl named Debbie Hillman by taking the place of her usual cab driver . A search gets underway & Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) is brought in to help with any forensic evidence , however after a picture of Norman is broadcast on the news he turns himself in to the police . He won't tell anyone where Debbie is & demands to be tried for her kidnap , all of the D . A . ' s evidence is circumstantial & if he is acquitted the double jeopardy law comes into effect in which he cannot be tried for the same crime twice no matter what happens . Norman says that if he is acquitted he will tell them where Debbie is for a small half a million dollars & even if he does tell them therefore admitting to the crime he can't be tried for her kidnap because he'll have already been found not guilty . . . Episode 11 from season 8 this Quincy story was directed by Georg Fenady & is a decent episode of Quincy even though he only gets about 5 minutes worth of screen time & is probably one of the few episodes where he doesn't perform an autopsy on anyone . Since this is the moral heavy season 8 there just has to be a social issue here & it comes down to believing in the law or whatever you place your faith in & sticking with it as it'll work out for the best in the end & won't let you down if you put the effort in , I mean they were always going to find a way to nail Norman weren't they ? The lack of any real Quincy related action does hurt this episode somewhat & I'd have liked to have seen Norman get away with it & his plan work which technically it should have but you can't have everything I suppose . The Law is a Fool is a perfectly entertaining way to pass 60 odd minutes although as usual it's rather predictable & has a bit too much moralising & not enough detective work . This one looks alright , lots of studio bound offices & prison cells you know the sort of thing . You know based on the evidence I don't think Norman would have been acquitted either , the fact that his were the only finger prints on the steering wheel , the cab drivers testimony , the lack of any other suspects , his connection to Debbie's Grandfather & the fact he didn't deny kidnapping her would have probably been enough for a majority verdict , what do you think ? The acting here is OK but nothing Oscar worthy . The Law is a Fool is an OK Quincy episode for sure , it's a fine way to pass an hour but Quincy's barely in it & he doesn't perform an autopsy either which just seems plain odd , a Quincy episode without much Quincy .
" The only record deal you getting ' is with the L . A . P . D . " I actually quite liked it .	Leprechaun in the Hood starts some years ago as two gold hunters Mack Daddy ( Ice-T ) & Slug following a map to a sealed room containing a statue of a Leprechaun & lots of gold . Slug removes a gold medallion from around the Leprechaun's neck after which the Leprechaun ( Warwick Davis ) comes to life & kills Slug with his comb . Mack Daddy discovers that by putting the medallion back the evil Irish Leprechaun is turned back into a statue , Mack Daddy also steal the Leprechaun's magic flute . Jump forward to present day Los Angeles where three young rappers Postmaster P . ( Anthony Montgomery ) , Stray Bulllet ( Rashaan Nall ) & Butch ( Red Grant ) are trying to make it ' large ' in the world of rap music & want to enter a competition but need money & equipment . Which is where the now successful gangster Mack Daddy comes in , he has the money & connections to help them make it big but tells them to get lost . In revenge Postmaster , Stray & Butch decide to rob Mack's place but end up stealing the magic flute , the gold & in an ensuing struggle accidentally sets the Leprechaun free again . However Mack sees them & goes after them with the intent of regaining his magic flute , the Leprechaun also is on their trail as he also wants his gold & flute back & both will kill to get them . . . Directed by Rob Spera Leprechaun in the Hood was the fifth film in the Leprechaun series ( & the only one I've seen thus far ) following Leprechaun 4 : In Space ( 1997 ) & preceding Leprechaun : Back 2 Tha Hood ( 2003 ) . I have to admit that I actually rather liked it for what it was , it ain't brilliant but I found myself having fun with it . The script by Doug Hall & John Huffman moves along at a nice pace , thankfully never takes itself too seriously & mixes horror & comedy to good effect in my humble opinion . The three central character's were surprisingly likable , there are lots of quite amusing dialogue although the film features non stop swearing with the term Mother Fcker constantly being used throughout . In fact at times it almost seems like a competition to see how many swear words can be inserted into a single sentence . The leprechaun himself gets plenty of one-liners & wise cracks while constantly talking in rhyme , he makes for a decent villain . I particularly liked a scene in a Church when the rappers were singing & swearing all over the place in front of the congregation ! The story was OK & it mixed rap & horror to a reasonable extent which I wouldn't have necessarily expected . There isn't much in the way of blood or gore , some severed body parts in jars , the Leprechaun puts his hand through someones chest & makes a couple of people's stomachs explode & Leprechaun in the Hood is maybe the only film I've seen which features a blood spurting death by plastic comb , stuck into someones throat no less ! There are some seriously hot looking babes in this as well , it's just a shame about those awful green computer generated eyes . Technically Leprechaun in the Hood has the look of a made for TV film , the special effects are OK at best , the film's soundtrack is populated by foul mouthed rap music which I didn't like too much & as a whole it's generally quite well made in a low budget horror sort of way . The acting is alright as long as no one tries to do anything serious which luckily isn't very often , Ice-T is alright but despite his top-billing in the credits has doesn't feature too much , apparently Coolio is in here somewhere but if you blink you'll miss him . For what it was I liked Leprechaun in the Hood , I thought it was quite often funny , had a certain charm & personality & has decent character's . It ain't no masterpiece but then I never expected it to be , hard to recommend but you could do a lot worse that's for sure .
Xtro , the unfriendly alien ! Strange but watchable British Sci-Fi horror film that I actually sort of liked .	Xtro begins at an isolated farm cottage somewhere in England . Rachel Phillips ( Bernice Stegers ) drives off leaving her husband Sam ( Philip Sayer ) and young son Tony ( Simon Nash ) behind . Sam throws a stick for the dog to chase when there is a white flash and everything goes dark , a bright light shines on Sam and a strong wind draws him towards it . Tony wakes up from his nightmare , a nightmare of the events from that day three years ago . Rachel & Tony now live in an apartment block in London with Rachel's photographer boyfriend Joe Daniels ( Danny Brainin ) & a fine looking young French lady they hire as a babysitter named Analise ( Maryam D'Abo ) . Back at the cottage , in some woods nearby a bright light appears in the sky and an alien creature thing lands on Earth . A young couple named Jane ( Katherine Best ) & Ben ( Robert Pereno ) are driving along in their Volvo when they narrowly miss something by the side of the road , they stop to see what it was . Both are killed . A woman ( Susie Silvey ) now lives or squats in the cottage , it's never made clear . Anyway , she is attacked by this slimy alien creature and impregnated . When she wakes up she finds her stomach the size of a beach ball , suddenly blood starts to pour from in-between her legs and she gives birth to a fully grown Sam who bites through the umbilical cord ! The alien creature melts into a slimy puddle on the carpet and becomes food for the woman's dog . Sam , now a human male , steals the clothes from Ben , the guy the alien creature killed earlier & also drives off in the Volvo . The next day he picks his son Tony up from school and meets up with his wife Rachel . Sam claims he cannot remember anything before that morning & doesn't know where he's been for the past three years , Rachel invites him back to her apartment to stay with her , Joe , Analise & Tony for the time being . Happy families this isn't . Joe feels great resentment towards Sam and slowly Rachel and Joe drift apart . However , Joe's suspicions turn out to be warranted as Sam starts to act strangely . First he eats Tony's pet snake's eggs & then sucks Tony's shoulder which starts to pulsate and expand as well as giving Tony some rather unusual abilities . As time passes unexplained things begin to happen and eventually Sam reveals his shocking secret ! Directed by Harry Bromley Davenport I thought Xtro was a oddly interesting , watchable and entertaining Sci-Fi horror film . It certainly isn't the best film ever made but the script by Robert Smith & Iain Cassie is face paced , bizarre and surreal . Nothing really makes much sense and not much is explained either . There are some genuinely memorable sequences in Xtro , I absolutely loved the part when the action man toy became a life sized living soldier ! The look on it's face and the stiff movement as it hunts down an annoying old woman named Mrs . Goodman ( Anna Wing ) who killed Tony's pet snake . Or the gross alien rape and birth scene in the cottage , which has some surprisingly good special effects . There is a bizarre midget evil clown , a black panther appears for no reason whatsoever & a bit where Analise's boyfriend Micheal ( David Cardy ) is chased around the flat by a plastic toy tank that fires real shells ! These scenes and more go to make this film stand out a little more than most , I thought Xtro had some cool ideas in it . The special make-up effects and gore are actually quite impressive , with the aforementioned alien birth being the main crowd pleaser . The gorgeous Maryam D'Abo provides the nudity , I actually met D'Abo a few months ago and asked if she remembered making Xtro which she did but also added that she hated it and then went very quite and wouldn't say anything else about it ! I got the feeling that she didn't like me mentioning it ! The special optical effects don't work so well & end up looking cheap , probably because they were to be fair . Technically the film isn't too bad at all & I'm sure director Davenport did the best he could on an obviously low budget . The London locations are also just that little bit different . Even though the story doesn't make any sort of sense & once it had finished I sat there wondering what just happened I liked it for what it was , a cheap horror film that kept me entertained for 80 odd minutes . Going into Xtro that was all I was hoping for . Worth watching if you want something a little bit off-beat & different . A sequel from Davenport materialised in the form of Xtro II : the Second Encounter ( 1990 ) which had no connection to this , the original . Oh , and th title Xtro doesn't mean anything either but at least it gives me a film review beginning with ' X ' as I couldn't think of any more !
Better than I was expecting . . .	The Hazing , or Dead Scared as I think it was commonly released under , starts with crazy Professor Kapps ( Brad Dourif ) murdering one of his students in some sort of occult ceremony . . . Delia Rodgers ( Nectar Rose ) , Marsha Glaser ( Tiffany Shepis ) , Tim Fields ( Parry Shen ) , Doug Leary ( Phillip Andrew ) & Roy Moore ( Jeremy Maxwell ) all want to join a sorority house but they have to go through ' the hazing ' in which challenges are set that they have to achieve . The first part of the hazing is to collect specific items including a book called the ' Saviour of Souls ' from Professor Kapps house , Marsha & Doug are on the case . They break into Kapps house & discover that he is a homicidal maniac , he ends up dead after a struggle & they take the book . The next part of the hazing is stay a night in the ' Hack House ' , an old empty house where a couple of murders were committed . The friends meet up & settle down for the night but little do they know that Kapps soul has the power to possess & kill , with the supernatural power in the Saviour of Souls book he hopes to become immortal . . . Written & directed by Rolfe Kanefsky I thought The Hazing was an OK teen slasher , I've seen better but I've seen worse . The script never takes itself too seriously which helps & there's some nice light humour here . The character's are slightly better than usual as well , most of them are at least likable & the fact that they are given specific costumes gives them a little bit more personality & identity . The basic story is a bit of a mess & the set-up never really convinces , I can understand why Professor Kapps would need to kill to activate the spell but why carry on randomly killing people ? There is simply no need whatsoever , if he was immortal & could possess anyone he wanted why would he decide to use his powers to just kill ? Wouldn't he possess someone like Bill Gates the richest man on Earth & just live it up ? I know damn well sure I would ! I mean it would make more sense wouldn't it . Anyway , the other aspect of The Hazing I was disappointed with was the body count & exploitation elements , I have to say that The Hazing was far too tame for my tastes . There's some nice boobs on show but there weren't enough kills & as a whole the first hour of the film felt very slow as a result . However if your looking for a half decent modern slasher than The Hazing is a decent watch . Director Kanefsky does a really good job & The Hazing is a surprisingly stylish & good looking film . The cast are all very good looking & since I'm a bloke I will specifically point out the babes here who are really rather nice looking . There's a fun atmosphere & it's not really scary . As a whole it's pretty tame , there's some splattered blood , a decapitation , an axe in someone's head , someone is shot , someone bites their huge tongue off & that's just about it I'm afraid , pretty low on the gore meter . There is a scene in which a blonde bird is assaulted by a long demon tongue but even that feels strangely soft & has little impact . Technically The Hazing is pretty impressive , it looks the part & is much better than the usual low budget shot on a digital camcorder type crap us horror fans have had to suffer over the past few years . The acting wasn't too bad & I quite liked everyone in it , Nectar Rose ( ! ) in particular is hot in her bunny outfit . . . The Hazing was better than I expected but at the same time I wasn't expecting much so that still doesn't make it any sort of masterpiece as far as I'm concerned . It's worth a watch , sure it is but just don't expect too much .
OK psycho / slasher / soap opera !	Night Warning begins as Bill ( Gary Baxley ) & Anna Lynch ( Kay Kimler ) leave their young 3 year old son Billy in the care of his Aunt , Cheryl Roberts ( Susan Tyrrell ) and set off for the Pacific Coast to visit their parents . While driving along a mountainside road the brakes on their car fail . Their car speeds out of control and eventually ends up over the side of the mountain and into a river , the car then explodes as a photo of Billy floats downstream . ' 14 Years Later ' , Billy ( Jimmy McNichol ) is now a bright happy 17 year old who lives with his Aunt Cheryl . Cheryl has raised Billy like her own child since his parents were killed , the thing is Cheryl is a little on the mad side , somewhat possessive and rather over-protective but it hasn't been a real problem until now . Now Billy is starting to develop a life of his own , Billy has a girlfriend named Julie ( Julia Duffy , the IMDb listing for this character is wrong . Her name in the film is definitely Julie , not Julia ) and is about to be seen by a Denver University scout and possibly win a full athlete's scholarship . Cheryl openly dislikes both Julie and the fact Billy may have to move to Denver . Having just fixed Cheryl's T . V . set Phil Brody ( Caskey Swaim ) is murdered by Cherly after he rejects her unwanted amorous advances towards himself . Billy comes home to find Cheryl covered in blood holding a large kitchen knife and claiming it was self defence because Brody tried to rape her . Two of Cheryl's friends also turn up , Marge ( Marcia Lewis ) and her husband Frank ( Cooper Neal ) . Lieutenant Joe Carlson ( Bo Svenson ) & Sergeant Cook ( Britt Leach ) are on the case . Neither believe for a second that it was self defence , this theory appears to gain even more credibility when it turns out that Phil Brody was gay & so wouldn't be interested in raping a woman . Carlson becomes more suspicious when it turns out that Phil Brody was in a relationship with Billy's sports coach , Tom Landers ( Steve Eastin ) and therefore it becomes clear that there is a connection between Billy & Brody . Cheryl becomes even more possessive and resorts to drastic measures to make sure that Billy stays with her . No one will take Billy from her and live ! Directed by William Asher Night Warning ( I actually saw the UK version under the much better title Nightmare Maker ) is a strange character driven horror film . The script by Stephen Breimer , Boon Collins & Alan Jay Glueckman concentrates on Cheryl's and Billy's relationship for most of the films running time . And a strange relationship it is too , almost incestuous , over bearing and just plain obsessive . The film tries to touch upon several issues , the weird obsessive relationship , homophobia , gay rights , teenage growing pains & all the while trying to keep the horror aspects of the story going . To be fair the film succeeds for the most part and is fascinating to watch , unfortunately it drags quite badly in places and there isn't a lot of action or violence to maintain ones interest . I wasn't impressed by the silly & slightly rushed ending , either . The acting stands up very well , Tyrrell and McNichol are fine , but it's Bo Svenson's ultra macho homophobic & racist Lieutenant that stays in the memory . I love while interrogating Tyrrell , her friend Marge says " leave her alone " to which Carlson replies " are you talking to me lady ? " , Marge replies " yes " and Carlson simply says " don't ! " . And look out for Bill Paxton ( everyones favourite character in Aliens ( 1986 ) ) in an early appearance as Eddie . There are some gory scenes in Night Warning , but not too many and most of them come within the last 15 odd minutes . There is a brief decapitation by tree trunk like the one in Final Destination 2 ( 2003 ) , a stabbing , a cut stomach , a severed hand and a few bloody gunshot wounds . The film has a really bland , flat & made for T . V . look and feel about it . The house where most of the film takes place is dull and visually uninteresting , the music is poor and the cinematography and direction although competent both lack imagination and flair . Overall Night Warning is an interesting horror film that is certainly worth a look , just because it's a little different if nothing else .
I actually quite liked it despite it's faults .	Never Play with the Dead starts as six friends pitch up outside a large rundown abandoned house , Craig ( Mark Homer ) is organising a rave that he hopes will make bags of money , joining him is Lux the DJ , Lee the electrician , Graham ( Terence Corrigan ) the tea boy along with Melanie ( Sarah Annison ) & Sarah ( Louisa Millwood-Haigh ) the dancers plus sexy babe Victoria ( Kara Tointon ) . They begin to set things up in preparation of the opening but strange things start to happen , the house seems to develop a life of it's own & psychically changes while Sarah gets spooked when she thinks she sees a ghostly child . . . This British production was directed by Ray Kilby & for some reason I can't fully put my finger on I quite liked Never Play with the Dead . The script by David Fedash just has something going for it , the teenage character's are far better than those usually seen in these low budget teen horrors & the dialogue seems natural , no-one does anything moronically stupid & within the context of it's own story it's pleasingly restrained & plausible . I think the pacing is a problem , it's a touch too slow which sort of kills it as nothing really that significant happens & the whole of the first 80 odd minutes ends up feeling like one long drawn out build up to the admittedly good twist ending although I have to say as a seasoned horror veteran I actually guessed the twist before it was revealed but it still had decent impact & was surprisingly sad . Some of the storytelling isn't the best in particular it is never revealed why the place is haunted , why the house can change it's size & shape or what happened to the four children during that opening sequence which bugged me actually . As a 90 minute film maybe there's not quite enough here to turn Never Play with the Dead from a good horror film into a great one but what the hell I liked it all the same although I doubt I'd want to watch it again anytime soon . Director Kilby does OK , obviously working on a low budget & shooting on video rather than film Never Play with the Dead has a certain spooky atmosphere & there are a couple of very effective scenes which prove you don't need horrible looking CGI computer effects to get under people's skin . This one goes for tension , strong storytelling & a careful build up rather than in your face scares or violence of which there isn't any . Techncially the film is fine & you get the impression the filmmakers actually cared about the finished product which cannot be said of all low budget horror films from the past few years . The acting is pretty good from a largely unknown cast although many British viewers will probably recognise Mark Homer who appeared in 264 episodes over a number of years of Eastenders as gay-boy Tony Hills while both Mohammed George & the sexy Kara Tointon have gone the opposite way since making Never Play with the Dead having both joined the cast of Eastenders in prominent roles . . . Never Play with the Dead isn't perfect but there's just something here which I liked & sometimes the heart just overrules the head .
Disappointing monster film .	Blood Beach is set in Southern California on a Santa Monica beach to be precise , early one morning as coast guard Harry Caulder ( David Huffman ) is starting work he says hello to his friend Ruth ( Harriet Medin ) who is taking her dog for a walk on the beach . Suddenly Harry hears screams & then silence with Ruth nowhere to be found , Santa Monica's finest Lieutenant Piantadosi ( Otis Young ) & his partner Sergeant Royko ( Burt Young ) are on the case but have little to go on . Ruth's daughter Catherine ( Marianna Hill ) who used to be Harry's fiancé arrives back in town to investigate her Mother's disappearance along with Harry . It's not long before reports of people being bitten & mutilated on the beach emerge , it becomes clear from the various wounds that there is something under the sand that likes to eat people . What exactly is it , can it be found & can it be stopped before there is anymore loss of life ? Written & directed by Jeffrey Bloom Blood Beach is one of the most frustrating films ever . It's one of those films that promise so much , it has a great central idea , a cool monster , people being eaten & one of the best titles in horror film history but when all said & done when you finally track a copy down it's the sort of film that does nothing but disappoint . The script by Bloom is basically Jaws ( 1975 ) set on a beach rather than in the water & it could have been brilliant , as it is it's average . While it's OK the film is far to padded with pointless scenes that go absolutely nowhere , the on-off romance between Harry & Catherine that just fizzles out into nothing , the old bag lady who pops up every so often for no apparent reason & a bizarre scene when a woman is interviewed by the police & she describes what her missing Husband was wearing in precise detail in a scene that has no connection to any other . The film suffers from a slow pace & considering that it runs for over 90 minutes surely the filmmakers could have trimmed it down to about 80 . Having said that I still quite liked it for what it was , it's not brilliant or as good as it should have been but I found it watchable & better than most modern low budget horror . Director Bloom does OK , there's some nice POV cinematography as the monster lurks about . Talking of the monster there is no explanation whatsoever about what it is , where it came from or how it got there . We just have to accept that there's a monster under a beach in Santa Monica , period . The monster itself isn't revealed until the last five minutes & even then it gets less than one minute of screen time which is a shame as I thought it looked really good & the special effects on it were decent as well . I thought there was a good horror film atmosphere running through Blood Beach & I especially liked the music . Forget about much in the way of gore , there's a decapitated head , a headless dog , some severed limbs & a scene in which a would be rapist has his penis bitten off in a non graphic implied kind of way , that'll teach him to try & rape someone on a beach . Technically Blood Beach is fine , it's quite well made considering what it is . The acting was alright but no one is going to win any awards for it , John Saxon has a relatively small role that doesn't amount to much . Blood Beach is the sort of film that you just want to like , a film that looks & sounds great but ultimately when you sit down to watch it it disappoints . Could have been so much more , worth a watch but by no means a classic . Yes at one pint in the film someone does indeed say the clever line " just when you thought it was safe to go back in the water - you can't get to it " which raised a smile from me .
Another infamous inept gore classic from auteur Herschell Gordon Lewis .	The Wizard of Gore starts as stage magician Montag the Magnificent ( asisstant editor Ray Sagar ) prepares to wow a captive audience ( that counts anyone watching at home out then . . . ) , he ask's for & gets a female ( Karin Alexana ) volunteer from the audience . Montag the Magnificent claims he will saw her in half before the audience's eyes , however he won't be using a handsaw or a wooden box to obscure the trick . No , Montag the Magnificent shackles the woman down on an ordinary table & then proceeds to cut her in half with a chainsaw . From the audience's point of view nothing happens & the woman gets up seemingly unharmed , unfortunately later that night while at a restaurant the woman makes a mess on the floor when she drops down dead having mysteriously been sliced in half . Daytime TV talk-show host Sherry Carson ( Judy Cler ) & her newspaper reporter boyfriend Jack Ward ( Wayne Ratay ) are the first to discover a link between Montag's performance & the woman's death so begin an investigation to find out whats going on , oh & Sherry wants Montag on her TV show . . . . Produced & directed by the so-called Godfather of Gore Herschell Gordon Lewis this was one of his later efforts but The Wizard of Gore is still as inept , badly made , amateurish & silly as most of his other gore flicks . The script by Allen Kahn runs true to form for a Gordon Lewis flick & is nothing more than an excuse to show girls being brutally killed in over-the-top gory ways so in that respect don't expect anything deep or meaningful ( as if ! ) . Unfortunately the padding , erm sorry I mean story between the killings isn't very good , in fact the term ' isn't very good ' is a bit of an understatement . There are all sorts of strange , unnecessary , dull & frankly weird scenes which the film could have done without . For instance meaningless scenes of Montag the Magnificent ( I feel he's overselling himself a bit with the ' Magnificent ' moniker ) stealing bodies & then placing them in a crypt for no apparent reason , the bumbling cops investigation , sherry & Jacks character building scenes & one of the most bizarre twist endings I have ever seen . I'm still trying to figure the ending out , no matter how many times I look at it it just never seems to make anymore sense ! The undoubted highlight of The Wizard of Gore though is predictably the gore , it's not particularly realistic but Lewis dwells on it , has his camera zoom in on it , has Montag stick his hands into open wounds , fiddle about with people's insides & pull them out & there's plenty of fake blood splashed around . When all said & done I quite liked The Wizard of Gore as it's certainly a bit different if nothing else , it's not art but good often bizarre very gory fun . Director Lewis really can't direct at all , The Wizard of Gore is so sloppily made , edited & shot it looks like a high school production . I loved the opening scene where Montag takes the clichéd magic trick of sawing a woman in half & twists it so Montag cuts a woman in half with a chainsaw in a sequence that's gorier than anything seen in The Texas Chainsaw Massacre ( 1974 ) which was made several years after this . There's also sword swallowing , a woman has a huge metal spike driven into her head before having her eyeballs popped out , someone gets her body squished with a power press & Montag even cuts his own head off with a guillotine all with gory results . The special effects are poor , there's no other word to describe them really . There's no style , the sound quality is appalling & the cinematography barely manages to capture what happening . The abrupt change in music to signal a shift between illusion & reality is poorly handled & the scenes showing a close-up of Montag's eyes every time someone is supposed to be hypnotised is rather jarring . With a supposed budget of about $65 , 000 this has horrible production values , poor special effects , some of the worst editing ever , grating music yet for some strange reason it sort of works . The acting sucks , on the DVD commentary Lewis reveals Sagar got the part of Montag because the guy they initially hired never turned up for filming ! The Wizard of Gore isn't a film your supposed to like , from a production point of view it's an absolute disaster but I did like it , I liked the imagination on show , it's something different , I liked the basic premise & I loved the over-the-top splatter filled gore effects . I can't recommend it wholeheartedly but I liked it on a personal level , basically if you have seen any of Lewis ' other flicks & liked them then you'll like this . Like his Two Thousand Maniacs ! ( 1964 ) which was remade as 2001 Maniacs ( 2005 ) someone has also seen fit to remake this as The Wizard of Gore ( 2007 ) not that anybody wanted it . . .
Enjoyable enough for what it is .	Trespass starts in Arkansas where two firemen Vince ( Bill Paxton ) & Don ( William Sadler ) stumble across a map showing the whereabouts of millions in stolen gold while putting out a huge fire , together they decide to find the gold for themselves & get rich . The map leads the pair to East St . Louis & an old abandoned factory , once there they start looking for the gold . Meanwhile local gangster King James ( Ice-T ) & his gang kill a rival who has ripped them off thinking no-one would be at the abandoned factory . Vince & Don witness the murder & are seen by King James & his gang , thinking fast Don takes a hostage & barricades himself & Vince a in a secure room . For the time being they are safe as there is no way into the room but at the same time there is no way out either so Vince & Don are trapped as King James & his men outside try to get into the room & kill them . . . Directed by Walter Hill this is an entertaining little action thriller that I quite liked . The script by executive producers Bob Gale & Robert Zemeckis could be described as a more urban version of Panic Room ( 2002 ) , only a decade earlier . The basic plot which really isn't too dissimilar to Panic Room is very good & I liked it , it's one of those plots where you tend to put yourself in certain character's positions & think about what you would do in their situation . Whether you would go hunting for the gold or how you would get out of the room without getting killed by the gangsters Trespass has a good story that holds your attention & definitely keeps you interested until the end . The character's are good if a little too simple , they are either good or bad with nothing between really although Don has a certain darker side . The script is fairly pacey although I must say that it can get a little repetitive at times , once Vince & Don are trapped in the room the film never really goes anywhere else & there aren't any sub-plots or anything else going on . The script also tries to throw in some moral dilemmas , in particular Vince & Don have millions in gold but it's completely worthless since they are more than likely going to be killed , it has a stab at trying to say money isn't everything & greed will ultimately lead to ones downfall . I suspect the main reason why Trespass isn't more well known is that there's a distinct lack of big action set-pieces , there's some shoot-outs & some scenes of buildings on fire but little else in the way of action . So what it boils down to really is whether you want lots of action or can get by with just a good solid intriguing plot , overall I liked Trespass but it's not a film I would probably want to watch again anytime soon . Set almost entirely in an abandoned factory the film looks nice enough & the action is well choreographed . I suppose it's a fairly unremarkable film that won't last long in the memory in terms of looks & visual style but the plot does stand out & is something a little bit different . The violence is not excessive , a few people get shot & someone gets pushed off a roof . There is however lots of profanity as all the black gangsters swear like it's a religion , in fact all the language does get a little tedious & tiresome after a while . Just because you can say the ' F ' word several times in a sentence doesn't mean you are hard . Although set in St . Louis it was apparently shot on location in Memphis in Tennessee & Atlanta in Georgia . I must say that I am big fans of both Bill Paxton & William Sadler & I think they are both very good in this while the two named after small blocks of frozen water Ice-T & Ice Cube swear a lot . One of very few films not to feature a single woman during it's running time at all . Trespass is a good tight little taught thriller with some nice action as well , the story is good & I liked it but it does get a little repetitive at times & if you can't get into the story then you will end up hating it .
A good horror / comedy but somewhat overrated .	Shaun of the Dead is set in London where Shaun ( co-writer Simon Pegg ) has problems , his fat mate Ed ( Nick Frost ) is holding him back , his girlfriend Liz ( Kate Ashfield ) dumps him & then there's the small matter of hordes of flesh eating zombies that risen from the dead to feast on the living . However , Shaun has a plan to save himself , his mate , his ex-girlfriend & his mum & step-dad which involves barricading themselves into his local pub . . . This British French co-production was co-written & directed by Edgar Wright & I have to say I was left a little disappointed by it & I can't quite see where all the glowing praise for it comes from . The script by star Pegg & Wright is obviously a nice homage to George A . Romero's ' Dead ' films although to be honest I'd sooner watch Romero's splatter / gore films than this odd mixture of comedy , romance & horror . Shaun of the Dead is all very British & maybe the novelty of it wins people over especially those who don't live here in Britian , unfortunately I do live here & it just doesn't have quite the same affect on me . Apparently both Pegg & Wright were involved in the British comedy series ' Spaced ' which to be honest I've never heard of & maybe that's where a lot of it's fans come from . Anyway , it's a moderately successful film & certainly a watchable one , it's amusing , it's pretty clever & well written , it has plenty of fun references to other films , it's a fairly fun film but I found it to be too spoofy , it goes to far into the direction of silliness & some of the things that happen just annoyed me . I'm in two minds really , I will openly admit it's a fun watch but I didn't think it was as brilliant as many seem to think , I doubt I'd watch it again anytime soon & I didn't have as much fun with it as I'd hoped , overall I'd say I was a little disappointed . Director Wright does a good job , it's shot like a TV soap opera at times although he manages to juggle the comedy , romance & horror quite well . It's not scary & I didn't find it laugh out loud funny either but I'm sure many of you out there do / will . I like the laddish approach that the modern British male would barricade themselves in a pub & wait for it to blow over rather than head for the plush & sensible surroundings of a supermarket as seen in Dawn of the Dead ( 1978 ) . There's some gore , someone is torn apart at the end , there are someone gunshot wounds to the head but little else worth mentioning . With a supposed budget of about $4 , 000 , 000 Shaun of the Dead is well made although there isn't a great deal of style or flair to it . The acting is good & the cast make their character's pretty likable . Shaun of the Dead is a decent fun homage to Romero's zombie films , to be brutally honest I'd rather see one of those again than this though . Worth a watch for sure but not as good as I'd hoped & I feel it's slightly overrated .
Passable enough rip-off of John Carpenter's ' The Thing ' , not too bad at all .	Six people board a yacht presumably somewhere in Thailand , it's never revealed exactly where we are at this point . The group comprises three couples . Alex ( Craig Fairbrass ) and his tasty girlfriend Rachel ( Jennifer Calvert , whom I used to have a big crush on when she played Karen Hanson a mean-spirited fast food restaurant boss in the children's comedy T . V . series ' Spatz ' that I used to watch after school ! ) . Linda ( Toni Barry ) and her boyfriend Paul ( Robert Firth ) plus Christine ( Margot Steinberg ) and Mark ( William Marsh ) . It's made perfectly clear in the opening sequence that they are drug smugglers with 600 kilo's of dope on board . All of a sudden , after the opening credits , they are all drifting out at sea in a lifeboat in the middle of the night and it's lashing down with rain . Did I miss something ? What happened to the yacht ? Since the filmmakers probably didn't have the budget to blow the yacht up the six characters just ' discuss ' it on the lifeboat and argue about who's fault it is . Soon after this extremely awkward plot jump they come across a dead body floating in the sea , the name tag says Duncan Jarman ( playing himself ! ) and he appears to be some sort of security officer . Suddenly the lifeboat hits a large structure in the sea , it's one of the huge metal legs belonging to an oil rig . Within a few minutes everyone is safely aboard . Going by first impressions , it seems that the oil rig is deserted . They come across some sort of ' biological research lab ' . Looking at some of the computer screens they conclude that some sort of DNA genetic engineering experiments have been taking place . They decide to stay at least until the morning , and they all find cabins to sleep in . Both Paul and Mark are heroin addicts . While trying to deliver some heroin to Mark , Paul is chased by something rather nasty and slimy . The others search for him . Instead of Paul they find a Dr . Shelly ( Nigel Pegram ) who warns them to leave . To confuse things even further on their travels they also come across a Dr . Carol Soames ( Jordan Page ) and a security officer named Jerry Buckley ( Ricco Ross ) , both of whom act strange and make no sense . Eventually Alex conveniently finds a video tape with the message ' play me ' . On it is a filmed message from Dr . Shelly who rather helpfully says that he and his scientific team have created a genetic mutant with human DNA that kills and adopts it's victims DNA and any individual survival characteristics that might be of use to it , and for it to evolve at an incredible rate . In it's true form becoming more and more mutated and freakish after each victim , victim's that it is able to replicate perfectly . The project was called ' Proteus ' . One by one the heroin smugglers become victims until the oil rigs owner , Leonard Brinkstone ( Doug Bradley ) turns up by helicopter . Will there be anyone left on the oil rig to greet him ? Or will ' Proteus ' escape the isolation of the rig and infect the outside world ? Who know's , watch it too find out ! Directed by Bob Keen I thought this was a perfectly entertaining horror film . It closely resembles John Carpenter's the Thing ( 1982 ) , with it's shape-shifting monster that can turn into anything it infects . And the isolated setting , in this case the oil rig . The script by John Brosnan from his own novel ' Slimer ' as Harry Adam Knight , is fairly well paced , everyone is on the rig and being chased by the monster within 10 or 15 minutes and there aren't many dull stretches . It's a little on the clichéd side though , and there isn't a single original idea in the whole film . But it does what it sets out to do rather well . There is a plot twist towards the end in which certain characters motives and identities are revealed to be different than first thought , but this revelation means nothing to the overall story and is rather wasted . Acting is OK , Fairbrass is alright as the hero and it was cool seeing Calvert again after all these years ! The effects are pretty good , the monster is shown during the last 10 minutes or so and looks decent with quite good movement , but it looks a little silly as the original host for the DNA was a shark and to resemble a shark it has a pointed head , unfortunately this gives the impression of it having a big nose ! Well , that's what I couldn't help thinking anyway . There's not much gore in it except when someone has their throat ripped out , most of the deaths are of the slimy variety rather than having lots of blood . Generally the film is well made , but I think there may be a problem with the sound as the dialogue is virtually indistinguishable in certain scenes , I had to turn the volume up on my T . V . to hear what people were saying but this has the unwanted side-effect of the music and sound effects being loud enough to wake the dead ! Most scenes are lit with bright neon lights , mostly blues that I thought looked really cool . It isn't a masterpiece by any means , but if your looking for a decent time waster then you could do a lot worse than this , worth a watch for horror fans if you can find a cheap copy or catch it on T . V . for free . Entertaining enough , even with it's limited ambition .
Old fashioned ghost story with a twist .	Dead Silence starts late one night as Jamie ( Ryan Kwanten ) & Ella Ashen ( Amber Valletta ) hear a knock on their apartment door , they open it to discover a mysterious package which contains a large trunk with a ventriloquist's dummy inside . Jamie goes out to buy some dinner but when he returns he finds Ella has been murdered , although not arrested the cop's think he did it so does a little detective work to try & clear his name . Following the logic that whoever left the dummy has something to do with his wife's death Jamie heads back to his home town of Ravens Fair where the dummy was made & where spooky nursery rhymes about an old lady seem to have some connection to Ella's murder . . . Directed by James Wan this is a pretty good old school styled ghost story , after the huge success of Saw ( 2004 ) Universal Pictures gave him more than ten times the budget he had to make Saw ( or rather more accurately to make the sort of money Saw made ) & Dead Silence is what Wan came up with . The script by Leigh Whannell takes itself very seriously & tries to recreate the chill's & shock's of those old haunted house type flicks with a few modern twists thrown in there for good measure . There's plenty of atmospheric scenes of people wandering around in the dark or through rundown buildings although I did become a little tired of it's repetitiveness at times . The majority of it's 90 minute duration is rather sedately paced & if you go into Dead Silence expecting killer dummies slashing a teen cast up then your going to be very disappointed . Dead Silence takes it's time to build a story , to create an atmosphere , to establish what's going on & who people are as well as sprinkle lots of clever little clues & red herrings throughout so the twist ending has maximum impact . The one thing people remember & raved about Saw when it came out was the twist ending & Wan serves another great twist up here at the end of Dead Silence , in fact I would say the twist in Dead Silence is better , more surprising , easily as memorable & just downright great . There are plenty of people who don't like the twist I'm sure as I am equally sure there are many who claim that the twist is obvious , well I like to describe these people as being ' wise after the fact ' & it's fine saying ' oh that was obvious ' once you have seen it but I doubt very much anyone who hasn't seen Dead Silence before or who haven't been told about the ending will be able to predict it . Director Wan does a fine job here & the film literally drips atmosphere , it has a period 40's type feel to it which I suspect is no coincidence since that's when there were a lot of live ventriloquist acts . The dummy has been a staple part of the horror film for decades , from the insipid Magic ( 1978 ) staring Anthony Hopkins to two memorable Tales from the Crypt episodes The Ventriloquist's Dummy ( 1990 ) & Strung Along ( 1992 ) maybe the most well know examples . I guess ventriloquist's dummies are just creepy slightly distorted images of ourselves which is why we find them frightening & somewhat disturbing . The dummy here in Dead Silence looks good but doesn't really do anything , in fact at no point do we ever see it ' alive ' so to speak , it moves it's eyes & we see it's hand move but nothing else & there certainly isn't any scenes of it killing anyone although it is hinted that it is responsible . The gore levels are low , there's a few dead bodies with bloody mouths but zero else . With a supposed budget of about $20 , 000 , 000 & filmed in Ontario in Canada Dead Silence is well made with high production values , I would have thought that most of the money went on the look & style of the film rather than flashy effects , big name stars or gore . The acting is solid from a relatively unknown cast . Dead Silence is an entertaining ghost film , don't go into it expecting killer dolls & lots of gore as it just doesn't happen . It's a touch slow going at times with a lack of dramatic incident but the story is strong & fairly involving while the twist ending is really good & made the previous 85 minutes well worthwhile . I liked it .
" I'm never working for that sleaze-ball again . . . I have to find another sleaze-ball . " Watchable comedy .	Elvira , Mistress of the Dark starts with cable TV horror show hostess Elvira ( Cassandra Peterson who also co-wrote ) having a run in with her new boss Earl Hooter ( Lee McLaughlin ) & getting herself fired . However Elvira doesn't care as she is about to star in her own show in Las Vegas , that is until her manager Manny ( Charles Woolf ) says she needs to raise $50 , 000 of the production costs herself . Elvira thinks she's screwed , that is until she learns that her great aunt Morgana has recently died & left her something in her will . Elvira senses money so heads for the small town of Fallwell in Massachusettes where Morgana lived . Once there Elvira discovers that she inherits Morgana's house , dog & cookbook . With no money Elvira decides to stick around & sell the house but the conservative locals think Elvira is immoral , cheap & bad for the town so lead by the righteous Chastity Pariah ( Edie McClurg ) they start a campaign to oust her from Fallwall . Meanwhile Elvira's evil Satan worshipping uncle Vincent ( William Morgan Sheppard ) is plotting to get his hands on Elvira's cookbook , which is in fact a book of powerful spells , by any means necessary . . . Directed by James Signorelli I thought Elvira , Mistress of the Dark was a decent watchable family comedy horror . I have to state straight away that I am perhaps at a disadvantage as here in the UK we have no exposure to the character Elvira unlike in the States where I think she gave introductions to horror films , right ? Anyway I'm not sure as we don't , & never had , have anything like that here & I have never seen the Elvira character in anything before this . The script by Sam Egan , John Paragon & Peterson is silly & really plays the comedy elements up , I'd have perhaps preferred the horror angle to come through a bit more , I mean wasn't she a horror film hostess ? Having said that it provides fair entertainment & a some mildly amusing moments here & there & at least it knows what it is & has no aspirations to be anything else other than a collection of puns , boob jokes , sexual innuendo & slapstick . As a whole Elvira , Mistress of the Dark works quite well with likable character's , just enough horror to maintain my interest & Elvira herself is pretty charismatic , very sexy in her skin tight low cut dress , high heels & I wouldn't mind her introducing my horror films . Look out for her Las Vegas show at the end where she twirls some tassel's attached to her breasts , even managing one at a time . Director Signorelli keeps things moving at a nice pace , the jokes & puns come thick & fast & it never becomes dull or boring . There is one effective jump scene that involves a slimy creature that feels like it belongs in a different film . Forget about any violence , someone has their hand cut off with an axe & Elvira throws her high heeled shoe at someone & the heel becomes impaled in their forehead ! I did think he overdid the sentimentality a little at the mushy feel good ending though . With a healthy budget of about $7 , 500 , 000 I must admit I'm not sure where all the money went , there are few special effects , no big name actors or huge action scenes . Anyway , it's well made & Elvira's spooky house , inside & out , looks cool which probably cost a few quid to make . The acting is OK & everyone comes across as likable enough , Elvira obviously steals the show with her outfits & attitude . Elvira , Mistress of the dark is a nice enough way to pass 95 odd minutes & offers a few amusing moments . A lot of the jokes feel dated & the overall story is weak but I still think it's worth a watch .
The second best horror film set in & around a lighthouse . Ever .	Lighthouse starts as brutal serial killer Dr . Leo Rook ( Christopher Adamson ) is caught , two months later he along with several other prisoners are on-board the prison ship the Hyperion being transported to some island prison or other . However Rook manages to kill his guards & escape in a small boat to a small nearby island where a lighthouse stands , once he gets there he kills the lighthouse crew & switches the light off which causes the Hyperion to crash into some rocks & sink . Some of the prisoners & guards manage to jump ship & make it to the lighthouse island themselves where they quickly realise Rook is there also & he carries on his killing spree dispatching the shipwreck survivors one-by-one . . . Retitled to the rather ambiguous Dead of Night for video release in the US this English production was written & directed by Simon Hunter & after the fantastic Tower of Evil ( 1972 ) this is easily the second best British made horror film set in a lighthouse , go on argue with me . The script takes itself extremely seriously & the whole film is played totally straight , the script also has proper adults as it's central character's rather than annoying teens who only think & talk about sex & beer like the majority of US horror films have which made for a nice change . Lighthouse is basically a dark slasher thriller set in a lighthouse , the film has a great mood & style about it but the story isn't that great & how easily does Rook , a serial killer remember , escape from that prison ship without anyone noticing he has killed two guards & literally rowed away in a small wooden boat both unchallenged & unseen . Someone wasn't doing their job properly were they ? I also didn't like it that much when it slipped into standard slasher cliché territory as everyone kept on finding excuses to split up so the character's get isolated so Rook can kill them off all the more easily , didn't anyone actually figure that out ? The pace is sedate but there's just about enough going on to hold ones attention , the script is fairly tight & taught which also just about injects enough personality & life into it's character's to make them interesting & worthwhile . Where Lighthouse really scores some points with me is with it's visual style & it's genuine atmosphere & mood . Lighthouse is a terrific looking film with some great cinematography , lighting , some nicely composed & framed shots & there is a fair bit of tension generated along with one or two scares although I have to deduct a point or two since the makers used that older than dirt false scare trick of having a cat suddenly jumps out of a corner & screech at a character . The crashing waves on the rocks , the eerie lighthouse itself , the dead of night with a torrential rainstorm raging all add to give Lighhouse a great feel , atmosphere , mood & gives one or two scenes some real tension . The climax is a little silly with the two leads hanging over the side of the lighthouse on a rope which is burning but never breaks ! The slasher clichés kick in again at the end to as the killer never quite knows when he's dead . There's some good gore here too , there are a couple of gory slashed throats , severed decapitated head & a couple of headless bodies . Even the CGI computer aren't that bad with one or two nice uses of CGI without ever going too overboard as it were . With a supposed budget of about $1 , 800 , 0000 this looks great & most of that money obviously went on the look of the film rather than bad CGI or any has-been star . Apparently the film was mostly shot in the Three Mills Studio in London while the location shoot was at the coastal town of Hastings & the actual lighthouse used is the Bishops Rock off Lands End in Cornwall . The acting is pretty good from no-one I can say I have ever heard of or seen before or since . Lighthouse is a fairly dark & atmospheric slasher film populated by proper people rather than plastic teens , if the makers had polished the story as much as the visuals then Lighthouse could have been great as it is they didn't so it isn't . Above average but maybe lacking a certain something to take it into greatness .
" I'd rather face the truth than wallow in deception . " Slow but moving tale of a Vampire !	Tale of a Vampire starts with immortal Vampire Alex ( Julian Sands ) reminiscing about the way things used to be , about his one true love Virginia ( Suzanna Hamilton ) who he lost many years ago . Alex then picks a cat up & drinks it's blood . . . Alex is currently writing a thesis on religious marters , those burned at the stake for their beliefs & that sort of thing . Alex regularly frequents a library full of the reference & old manuscripts he needs but the library only has one employee at the moment Denise ( Marion Diamond ) so she plans to advertise for an assistant when Anne ( Suzanna Hamilton again ) walks in & offers her services despite the job not being formally advertised yet , seeing it as a stroke of luck Denise gives Anne the job . Alex instantly recognises the resemblance Anne has to Virginia & starts to get close to her , taking her to dinner , walking her home & having strange cryptic conversations with her . Anne knows something isn't right about Alex & her fears are seemingly confirmed when a man named Edgar ( Kenneth Cranham ) suddenly shows up & explains to Anne that Alex is a Vampire & that he must be destroyed . . . This English production was written & directed by Shimako Sato & I saw some nice ideas & elements in here that were ultimately lost amongst the sedate pacing . The script really is about as threadbare as one could imagine , the whole first forty minutes of Tale of a Vampire is nothing more than Anne getting the job at the library & meeting Alex , that's it . Alex is a bit of a dull Vampire , all he does everyday is sit in a library reading books which in the end has no real relevance to the story & pine over Virginia . On the positive side Tale of the Vampire is a quite emotive film & I ended up feeling for the character's , I started to feel somewhat sorry for everyone involved & a little sad for Alex at the downbeat climax . The story of Virginia unfolds through flashbacks that Alex has so that subplot punctuates the slowness of the main story at times . Tale of a Vampire is a different sort of Vampire film , it's very story & character driven , there's no big action or horror scenes even though it is gory on occasion & it's not very traditional in the sense that Alex never grows fangs , he's not afraid of the daylight & he doesn't sleep in a coffin . There are only two or three main character's in Tale of a Vampire & the dialogue is kept to an absolute minimum which may be a problem for some as it definitely doesn't help the pace of the film . Japanese director Sato has created a visually stylish film , because of the minimal dialogue & story Tale of a Vampire relies heavily on it's imagery . The cinematography & lighting are both great & Tale of a Vampire is a nice looking film with some cool shots , lighting & angles . Having said that where did that kid who falls from the sky with a sword stuck in him come from ? Anyone whose seen it will know the scene I'm talking about , I couldn't work out what was supposed to have happened in that scene . Set in London the dark back alleys make for a grimy setting & give the film a nice familiar & modern but sinister & creepy atmosphere throughout although there aren't many libraries like that in London , if any . There is some nice gore , most of it involves fountains of blood pouring from wounds , someone has their throat slit , people are stabbed with swords & old piping , cats are mutilated & someone has their head bashed against a wall which results in gallons of blood spurting everywhere . Technically Tale of a Vampire is top notch considering the budget it must have had , the photography , production design , special effects & music are all impressive & it's generally well made throughout . The acting was OK , I liked Sands as Alex , the way he looks & his subdued lonely performance worked well . Hamilton as Anne didn't do much for me but she was alright . Tale of a Vampire isn't a film for everyone , it's a challenging piece of film-making . Sure it's just about as slow as a film can be but the way it's filmed & put together I found it watchable & I actually cared for those on screen for a change .
Very short New Zealand zombie film .	Zombie Movie tells the story of three friends Darryn ( Des Morgan ) , Sam ( co-writer , producer & director Ben Stenbeck ) & Paul ( Simon Niblett ) who finds themselves trapped in a car surrounded by flesh eating zombies & out of gas . Over the next few they have to try & find a way to find safety & as they run out of cigarettes & things become more desperate relations start to get strained . . . This New Zealand production is a fifteen minute ( including opening & closing credits ) black comedy / horror & to be honest it's an inoffensive way to pass a quarter of an hour but it's hardly anything special despite it's neat central premise & because of it's short duration it doesn't leave much of an impression & simply doesn't have time to tell any significant story . Having said that it's watchable , it moves along at a decent pace & has an amusing ending . It's surprisingly well made with good , if underused , zombie make-up effects & it has good production values with decent nicely lit photography & acting . I'm not sure how anyone would get to see this film & to be frank it's not really worth spending any amount of energy or money on tracking down but if you can see it on TV for free then you could do a lot worse & it is only fifteen minutes long .
" It's a wondrous thing science . . . it can rob you of your humanity . " I actually thought it was OK .	Frankenstein Reborn starts with a woman named Jessica Halverson ( Sarah Lieving ) arranging to meet Victor Franks ( Rhett Giles ) at an old warehouse / factory which he uses as a makeshift laboratory , inside Jessica is attacked by something which chains her to a table & rips both of her legs off . . . A one Victor Franks has been arrested in connection with multiple murder & the disappearance of two people associated with him , since Victor keeps on rambling about his bizarre experiments & a hideous creature he has been institutionalised where Dr . Emily Hertz ( Amanda Barton ) & Dr . Robert Walton ( Thomas Downey ) are analysing his mental state to determine whether he can stand trial . In various lengthy interviews Victor begins to tell the terrible tales that will supposedly explain everything & prove his innocence . Victor says he was working on various experiments in the field of ' biological nanotechnology ' in an attempt to cure spinal injuries & to ultimately re-animate the dead . He talks of being addicted to cocaine & having threesomes with his two female lab assistants Elizabeth Weatherly ( Eliza Swenson ) & Rebekkah Clarke ( Christina Rosenberg ) , he recalls how the experiments with a patient named Bryce Daniels ( Joel Hebner ) took a turn for the worse & how he convinced his brain surgeon friend Dr . Hank Clerval ( Jeff Denton ) to help him continue them illegally & how they lead to betrayal , murder & the creation of a monster . . . Co-edited , written & directed by Leigh Slawner who also has a role in the film as Dr . Cadaverella I personally thought Frankenstein Reborn was a decent film . The script plays more like a contemporary Re-Animator ( 1985 ) film rather than Mary Shelly's classic novel which is no bad thing as we get a modern day tale of a mad scientist dabbling with bizarre experiments with the hope of re-animating the dead & all the problems that would bring . His friendships suffer as nothing will stop him in pursuit of his ultimate goal , the woman he loves ends up dead & he will do just about anything to further his experiments . The way Frankenstein Reborn tells it's fairly entertaining story is both an asset & a disadvantage , just about the entire film is told in numerous flash-backs . The flash-backs are sometimes hard to follow as they show the same ones but from different angles or mix them up so their not in chronological order or repeat them but in a slightly extended version to reveal a bit more of the story that wasn't present before . While this approach gives the film a nice originality & it plays out like a mystery it can become a bit annoying & confusing as it jumps back & forth in both time & location without much regard for the viewer . The character's are better drawn & fleshed out than usual for these ultra low-budget independent films which makes a nice change with various affairs , rivalry & personal angst amongst the carnage . This particular version of Frankenstein offers up plenty of blood & gore with ripped of legs & arms , heads being sawed off , surgical scenes with bodies being sliced up with scalpels , a woman has her breast sliced open with a razor , someone is impaled on a huge shard of glass , hearts are ripped from chests , someone has their brains blown out plus there are lots of intestines , internal organs , body parts & blood splattered across the screen to keep most horror fans quiet for it's duration . There is also a pleasing amount of nudity , sex , swearing & drug usage . According to the IMDb Frankenstein Reborn was shot between 22nd April & 2nd May ( less than 2 weeks ! ? ) 2005 on a minuscule budget of about $500 , 000 & when you take that into consideration this is a surprisingly good & competent film . The cinematography is actually quite good , the special effects are very good with the Frankenstein monster itself looking very impressive & pretty gross as well , music , the sets & overall production design give the impression of a better funded film & it is generally well made throughout with director Slawner obviously using his budget with good effect & he luckily resists the temptation to use annoying fast editing techniques & keeps the gimmicky tricks down to a minimum . The acting was also quite strong for a film with these low budget origins . Don't get me wrong as Frankenstein Reborn is far from the best horror film ever made , far from it in fact , but as a way to pass 84 minutes I found it a surprisingly enjoyable & well made little film . Persoanally I think it's well worth a watch especially if your a horror fan but then that's just my opinion .
I'm reviewing the 112 minute theatrical cut which is a little slow to get going but not too bad overall .	Salem's Lot is set in the small American town of Jerusalem's Lot & starts as writer Ben Mears ( David Soul ) returns to his childhood town where he is going to write a horror novel based on a creepy old mansion that sits high on a hill & overlooks the town of Jerusalem's Lot & is known as the Marsten House . At the same time the mysterious Mr . Richard K . Straker ( James Mason ) rents the mansion from local estate agent Larry Crockett ( Fred Willard ) & ask's him to send a couple of removal men to pick a large crate up from the docks , which he does . Crockett sends Ned Tebbets ( Barney McFadden ) & Mike Ryerson ( Geoffrey Lewis ) who deliver the crate to the Marsten House & notice how cold the crate feels . That same night Danny Glick ( Brad Savage ) disappears without trace & both Straker & Mears are suspected by Constable Gillespie ( Kenneth McMillan ) . But Danny soon turns up again outside his friends , Mark Petrie ( Lance Kerwin ) , window as a Vampire . More townspeople start to go missing , people are attacked & turned into Vampires as Mears becomes convinced that Straker & the elusive Mr . Barlowe ( Reggie Nalder ) are responsible for the terrifying events . Together with the local Doctor , William Norton ( Ed Flanders ) & his daughter Susan ( Bonnie Bedelia ) Ben sets out to rid Jerusalem's Lot of the evil that threatens to destroy it . . . Directed by Tobe Hooper I need to say that the version I saw was the theatrical version that probably cuts an hour or so out of the original TV edit & features the alternate scene where Crockett is forced to put the shotgun in his mouth & loses the end where Ben tracks Susan down to somewhere in Mexico , I have seen both ( I own both actually ) but can't remember the longer edit at all because it's been literary years since I saw it last so unfortunately I can't compare the two . Salem's Lot was Stephen King's second novel & this film was the second King screen adaptation following the success of Carrie ( 1976 ) . The script by Paul Monash is quite slow burning even in this shorter variant but manages to grip the viewer , the characters , situations & set pieces work very well . The problem I have is that characters come & go far too readily , the love triangle between Crockett & his secretary is shown & then complete discarded for the rest of the film & we never know what happens to any of them , the end in which Susan is totally ignored as she literary disappears never to be seen again although she is in the TV version . It's obvious conversations & scenes are haphazardly & awkwardly cut or shortened , again this may not be the fault of the original version . Having said that Salem's Lot really picks up from about the halfway point & features some terrific sequences like the Vampires outside people's windows , a scene in a kitchen when we see Barlowe for the first time as he rises from the floor & the absolute fantastic Marsten House sets at the end that look run-down , battered , grimy , atmospheric , stuffed animals littered everywhere , rat infested , dusty cobweb strewn & just the perfect place for a Vampire to live . The Vampire make-up is great with these Vampires looking very pale faced with glowing yellow eyes & Barlowe in particular stands out even though he barely gets any screen time & doesn't even get a decent death scene as he lies there when Ben finds him & stakes him through he heart & that's it . There is next to no gore in it , someone is impaled on antlers & a few neck bites is all the red stuff we get , disappointing . The acting is OK but since the film chops so much out of the characterisations it's hard to give an accurate opinion . Technically Salem's Lot is bland but very functional , the cinematography is static , the effects basic , the sets look fake but director Hooper manages to create that unique horror atmosphere that counts for so much . I feel strange writing about Salem's Lot as the version I watched last night was severely different to the way Hooper intended it to be but is a film in it's own right still so warrants a review . I liked the second half much more than the first , above average & definitely worth watching & I will have to watch my old Warner Bros . tape of the full 180 odd minute version sometime soon & possibly update my review .
" Not ten minutes ago I tried to kill a stray cat with a cabbage . " Great to look at but lacking elsewhere .	The Tomb of Ligeia starts with the chance meeting of Lady Rowena ( Elizabeth Shepherd ) while out fox hunting & the recently widowed Verden Fell ( Vincent Price ) , she becomes interested in the mysterious Fell & despite him trying to strangle her once it's not long before wedding bells chime & the two are ' happily ' married . Verden lives in a large Abby with his previous wife Ligeia buried nearby but Verden doesn't believe she's dead , he is obsessed with his dead wife & neglects Rowena who to be fair to her has problems of her own as a sinister black cat keeps turning up & she starts to have nightmares & hallucinations which she believes may be the ghost of Ligeia haunting her . . . This British production was directed by Roger Corman The Tomb of Ligeia was the eighth & last of his Edgar Allan Poe adaptation's coming after The Masque of the Red Death ( 1964 ) & while I don't claim to have seen them all I would imagine that The Tomb of Ligeia is probably one of the lesser films of the eight . The script by Robert Towne is based on the story by Edgar Allan Poe which was apparently entirely narrated & had a significantly different ending so I would guess that this filmed adaptation bears little resemblance to the story bar the title & character's . It's rather ponderous & slow with very little happening within it's short 80 odd minute duration . I also felt the film was far too predictable , if there's anyone out there who can't guess the basic outcome of this I'd be pretty surprised . It's not particularly scary & as a whole I felt the story lacked a hook , it didn't engage or draw me in & a lot of it goes relatively unexplained like the stray cat which has something to do with it but Corman never explains what exactly . Director Corman does a great job here & it's the films rich visual style & appearance that saves it from being a complete dud . The Gothic spiderweb encrusted Abby sets are brilliant & provoke real atmosphere , the period production design is first class & this has to be one of the best looking horror films of the 60's . However seeing the character's run around these impressive sets not really doing much isn't actually that much fun I'm afraid although I would actually probably watch The Tomb of Ligeia again just for the cool sets . There's no blood or gore so don't worry about that & unfortunately it's not scary either . Technically The Tomb of Ligeia is top notch with wonderful production values , good special effects & it's very well made with nice attention to the period detail for the probably low budget . This was shot in England in Norfolk using the Castle Acre Priory & Stonehenge also gets a few scenes shot there . Vincent Price puts in his usual over-the-top performance minus any facial hair which makes him look really strange when your used to seeing him with a beard , everyone else puts in a decent shift . The Tomb of Ligeia looks great but the story just lacks punch & it didn't entice me into it at all , overall I'd say The Tomb of Ligeia was a disappointment although it's nice to look at . Worth a watch but just don't expect too much substance .
" I don't suppose you've ever had a homosexual experience ? " OK Giallo from Argento .	4 Mosche di Velluto Grigio , or Four Flies on Grey Velvet as it's more commonly known amongst English speaking audiences , is set in Rome in Italy where Roberto Tobias ( Michael Brandon ) is a ( not very good ) drummer in a band . One night when leaving rehearsal Roberto notices a mysterious man ( Calisto Calisti ) in a bowler hat looking at him , just one incident involving him over the past few days Roberto chases after the man to see what his game is . Roberto confronts the man in an abandoned theatre & in a struggle Roberto accidentally stabs him , soon after Roberto finds photo's of him committing the murder in his house , he receives threatening phone calls & is even physically assaulted by the mysterious person who knows his dark secret . Roberto can't go to the police as he will implicate himself in a murder so he is at the mysterious persons mercy , but if not money what do they want ? This Italian French co-production was co-written & directed by Dario Argento , the third part of his fan coined ' animal ' trilogy of Giallo made back to back with The Bird with the Crystal Plumage ( 1970 ) & The Cat ' o Nine Tails ( 1971 ) . Maybe one of Argento's hardest films to track down it has never had a legal release on any home video format in America or Britain because of complicated rights issues , the one version that seems to be going around at the moment is a bootleg of the version released on French video during the 80's , to be fair that isn't that difficult to track down . Anyway , the script by Argento , Luigi Cozzi & Mario Foglietti is fairly standard Giallo fare to be honest , at over 100 minutes in length it certainly drags in places & isn't that gory either with a pretty low body count . There are some awkward attempts at humour which are at odds with the overall seriousness in tone of the rest of the film , a bizarre scene set in a coffin exhibition where various people try to sell the latest in coffins , one quips ' we've never had a complaint from a customer yet ' or perhaps the deliberately camp gay private detective . The killer is a bit easy to guess but their motives are pretty weak & come out of nowhere , there isn't a cat in hells chance of anyone working this one out because the motive given just doesn't quite fit with anything else in the film . The character's are alright , the dialogue is a bit stiff & awkward at times as a lot of Italian dubbed into English films are . Director Argento does OK , the style he show's in some of his later films is here but in fleeting glimpses . There is an amusing bit where Argento follows a phone conversation between two people by having his camera travel along the phone line cables & a cool ultra slow motion crash at the end but little else to get excited about . As a whole 4 Mosche di Velluto Grigio is well made but largely forgettable except for one or two sequences as mentioned . The violence & gore is tame , there's an eyeball , a couple of dead cats & a decapitation but that's about it . The story is quite absorbing & interesting when it focuses on the murder mystery at hand but too many times it gets bogged down with other things , also the murderer & Roberto have no contact with each other after the first twenty minutes so I was wondering why he was so bothered when they hadn't contacted him or threatened him or done anything to him for what seemed like most of the film . Technically the film is good , it's well made with good production values . Shot on location in Rome , Milan & Turin in Italy . Since the film is dubbed ( plenty of familiar voices for those who like Italian horror ) it's difficult to comment on the original performances but they seem OK . Bud Spencer has a small part as the Professor . I bet you didn't know that Spencer was the first Italian to swim 100m freestyle in less than a minute did you ? Well , now you do . 4 Mosche di Velluto Grigio is a pretty decent Argento Giallo , or to put it more plainly a murder mystery whodunit , despite a very strange sounding title the four flies on grey velvet do actually have some relevance . Not Argento's best but not his worst either , worth watching if you can find a copy .
Surprisingly good supernatural shocker .	The Entity is set in California where single mother of three Carla Moran ( Barbara Hershey ) happily lives in a home with her teenage son Billy ( David Labiosa ) & her two young daughters Julie ( Natasha Ryan ) & Kim ( Melanie Gaffin ) . One night her cosy life is turned upside down when Carla is attacked & raped by some invisible force , she seeks help from psychologist Dr . Phil Sneiderman ( Ron Silver ) who tries to help Carla from the medical scientific viewpoint that she is imagining it all . However Carla is not imagining it & she is attacked & raped at least two more times before she decides that she has to turn to more unorthodox methods of two parapsychologists who think they can trap the violent entity & get it out of Carla's life for good . . . Directed by Sidney J . Furie this interesting often quite absorbing supernatural horror film turned out much better than I had expected . The script by Frank De Felitta was based on his own novel of the same name that was supposedly partially based upon a true story takes itself very seriously & set out to tell the somewhat grim story of a woman who is raped by a ghost & the effect this has on her & her family & friends . It's a very character driven story that has a lot of parallels to The Exorcist ( 1973 ) , the female central character who starts out happy & normal before evil supernatural occurrences begin to ruin her life , the contrast between character's who suspect a plausible scientific & medical explanation based in reality against those who believe a more supernatural explanation for the sinister goings-on to the general feel of the plot & story which moves in a very similar way to The Exorcist as it builds up to a big set-piece climax in which some sort of evil demonic spirit is fought . Having said that The Entity is still a good film & one that turned out better than I expected , it can be a bit slow at times but it is spent on purposeful character development which really helps draw you into the story & actually care about whats going on . The Entity is a good solid character driven supernatural horror film that won't suit all tastes since it's not flashy or gory or has any big name stars in it & it can be slow going at times but it's a fairly intense film that overall I liked . The first ninety odd minutes of The Entity is pretty low key with the bare minimum of special effects , set-pieces & ghostly goings-on while the final thirty odd minutes goes over the top with plenty of optical effects , laser beams , spirits , jets of hydrogen & even a collapsing house . Even though special make-up effect man Stan Winston gets a prominent ' special make-ups effect by ' at the end I didn't see any make-up effects at all in this . In fact I don't think there is a single drop of blood during it's entire two hour plus duration & nobody dies or gets murdered . The rape scenes are not graphic , since Carla is raped by an invisible force it's difficult to make these scenes graphic anyway . There's a couple of scenes where her nipple gets played around with & a scene featuring full frontal nudity on her part but to me it didn't look like a rape purely because there was no-one else there . Luckily Barbara Hershey puts in a really good & credible performance which brings some intensity to scenes which could have come across as ridiculous . Production wise the film is well made with competence & has good solid production values , you can definitely see that The Entity is a Hollywood film . The acting is alright , it goes from the excellent Barbara Hershey to the flat & dull Ron Silver who is probably the one weak link in the cast . The Entity is a good solid psychological horror thriller that is supposedly based on true events which I find difficult to believe but there you go . This turned out better than I had anticipated but it's a bit too long in places & I doubt I would ever want to see it again . The Hollywood remake predictably called The Entity ( 2010 ) is currently in development & you can bet anything you like if it ever gets made it will be loaded with CGI . . .
Dull horror .	28 Days Later . . . starts as three animal activists break into ' Cambridge Primate Research Center ' & deliberately set loose some caged monkeys , unfortunately unknown to them these monkeys are infected with a highly contagious ' rage ' virus which turns the carrier into a ravenous crazy red-eyed zombies . . . Jump forward ' 28 Days Later ' & Jim ( Cillian Murphy ) wakes up in a hospital bed from a coma , he discovers the hospital & central London completely deserted . Jim is attacked by some of the infected & is saved by Mark ( Noah Huntley ) & Selena ( Naomie Harris ) who inform Jim that the entire country has been overrun by infected people who do nothing but kill & spread the virus . Survival is hard & Mark is killed when he becomes infected , with just Jim & Selena left they meet a man named Frank ( Brendan Gleeson ) & his young daughter Hannah ( Megan Burns ) who are also having trouble surviving in London . While trying to listen to the radio they hear a message from a group of soldiers just outside Manchester , the four decide to try & find them & seek help & shelter . . . This English French co-production was directed by Danny Boyle & I thought it was OK at best & excruciatingly dull at worst . The script by Alex Garland takes itself 100 % seriously & is slow , isn't properly fleshed out & dull . The film felt like it was hours long & it took me three attempts to get through it over two days as it just wasn't holding my interest at all . I hated all the character's , I hated way it was shot , I hated the story & I hated the fact it rips off so many better horror films right down to individual scenes from the likes of The Day of the Trffids ( 1962 ) where Jim wakes up in hospital facing a post apocalyptic world , Dawn of the Dead ( 1978 ) with the shopping center bit & the zombie kid & Day of the Dead ( 1985 ) with the chained up zombie , there are loads more besides . Not enough information about the virus or zombie sis given , in fact we learn virtually nothing about either . The film failed to excite me on any level , I simply didn't care what happened which is why I wasn't bothered about seeing it in one go . For most of the film Jim is passive & rather static until the end when he suddenly turns into a bare chested superhero & takes out an entire army platoon on his own & avoids all the infected zombies running around everywhere , it's far too clichéd & is just a totally unconvincing change in his character . The happy ' Hollywood ' ending is also hard to swallow , where exactly did that plane come from ? It's only Britian that is infected ? It states early in the film that the virus had spread to Paris & New York , if the rest of the world was still ' OK ' I cannot believe for the life of me that a highly trained platoon of soldiers wouldn't have radio equipment to contact the outside world , I mean if my cheap mobile can call the opposite side of the world surely they had the equipment to radio for help or at least know that other countries were infection free . After the end credits had finished on the version I saw it said ' What If . . . ' which turns out to be an alternative ending in which Selena & Hannah try to save Jim's life in a hospital but fail & just walk off , this is a slightly more realistic downbeat ending that some may prefer while other's may not . Having said that it's well made & it's watchable on a basic level but it could have been so much better . Director Boyle does his best to ruin the thing , it was shot on a digital camera so it looks grubby & cheap while he totally messes up the horror scenes , why do directors use really fast cuts ? You know the sort of thing , scenes which are just annoying hand-held jerky camera movements , a jumble of jump cuts & individual shots that last for less then a second which confuses , frustrates & doesn't allow the audience to see anything . A lot of films are guilty of it & I really don't know why , I don't know a single person who says they like this particular editing technique , not one so why filmmakers continue to use it in abundance I'll never know . Forget about any effective gore as it's blink & you'll miss it stuff because of the fast editing , the most you can make out is some spurting blood . The early scenes set in a deserted London have a certain effective eeriness to them but that's as good as 28 days Later . . . gets . With a supposed budget of about $8 , 000 , 000 28 Days Later . . . is well made for what it is but it's not that stylish . The acting from a largely unknown cast is OK but I absolutely hated all the character's in the thing which made it impossible to like the film or care about them . 28 Days Later . . . was hugely disappointing , I was expecting a lot but I felt let down in every area . I will still give it a decent score as it's OK but there are just too many things about it I didn't like . Worth a watch but just don't expect a masterpiece .
" You are filled with such love . . . & green stuff . " I liked it better than the original .	Class of Nuke ' Em High Part II : Subhumanoid Meltdown is again set in the radiation polluted town of Tromaville , although instead of the High School this time the story takes place at the ' Tromaville Institute for Technology ' or ' TIT ' for short ( yeah folks that's the level of comedy this film aspires to ) . Misguided genetic scientist Professor Holt ( Lisa Gaye ) has created a new form of life , a genetically created human being who fully matures within nine months & can be used for all those jobs us humans don't like , Professor Holt calls her creations Subhumanoids . Ace reporter for the Tromaville Tech Times Roger Smith ( Brick Bronsky ) becomes romantically involved with a Subhumanoid named Victoria ( Leesa Rowland ) , however no-one said the course of true love would be smooth & as such there is a problem with Victoria . It comes to Roger's attention that other Subhumanoids are beginning to go into meltdown & , well melt into green slime leaving behind a furry green football sized creature . Roger also becomes aware of Dean Okra's ( Scott Resnick ) plan to turn all the Subhumanoids into slaves & sets out to free them & find a cure to stop Victoria from turning into green goo , meanwhile a 30 foot radiation mutated squirrel goes on the rampage as it stomps it's way through Tromaville . . . Co-written & directed by Eric Louzil I personally thought Class of Nuke ' Em High Part II : Subhumanoid Meltdown was better than the original & a pretty good comedy horror in it's own right . The script by Louzil , Lloyd Kaufman , Carl Morano , Mark F . Roling , Jeffrey W . Sass & Matt Unger is a vast improvement over the original as it actually has a storyline this time round . It still doesn't make a whole lot of sense but it never takes itself seriously & is good fun to watch . Some may disagree as it has the usual low brow humour you would expect from Troma , a fat guy bending over sticking his bum at the camera & farting , projectile vomit , throwing a baby around like a football , the limited locker space so the students ( the female ones in particular ) wear very limited amounts of clothing & a giant mutated squirrel urinating & being sick over everyone . However in the case of Class of Nuke ' Em High Part II : Subhumanoid Meltdown it works quite well , don't get me wrong it's far from brilliant but it's entertaining in a strange funny sort of way . The character's aren't the best & the dialogue isn't exactly Oscar worthy stuff but then this is Troma so what did you expect ? Something is always happening , it moves along at a nice pace & at least it's never boring . Director Louzil doesn't do anything particularly outstanding but it's better made than most Troma films that's for sure . The jokes & gags are very hit & miss , I found some funny while other's I found simply moronic . It certainly tries hard to pack as much crazy action as it can into it's 100 odd minute run time . I also must mention the closing credits , besides a cool theme song there are some really funny credits like ' Unoriginal Story by I . Kant Wright ' a list of ' People Who Did Not Act in this Film ' & more . The film goes for outrageous comedy more than horror so don't expect any scares or shocks , the gore is conspicuous by it's absence , a torn off head & someone eating some broken glass is as gory as it gets . There is lots of nudity as one would expect from a Troma film . Technically the film is alright although it varies from scene to scene . There are some stop-motion monsters which look OK while some of the other special effects are absolutely awful . A special mention goes to the closing theme music & catchy song which I thought was great . The acting isn't great & I still can't figure out what that point of Professor Holt's massive beehive hairdo was all about . There are plenty of good looking ladies with not much clothing on in this film , which helps . I liked Class of Nuke ' Em High Part II : Subhumanoid Meltdown & found it quite funny although many will be put off by the low production values & totally bizarre plot . If your looking for a bit of fun & have a slightly depraved sense of humour then I recommend this film , if you don't then I don't . Followed by Class of Nuke ' Em High 3 : The Good , the Bad and the Subhumanoid ( 1994 ) .
I thought it was OK , better than I had expected .	Bloodsuckers is set in the year 2210 where mankind has spread out into space , unfortunately most of space is occupied by various different breeds of blood sucking Vampires . That's where the likes of Captain Churchill ( Joe Lando ) & his crew come in , you see he leads a team of soldiers killing Vampires wherever they find them . A sort of intergalactic Vampire sanitation service if you can imagine such a thing . They relentlessly fight the good fight against alien Vampires for a crappy wage but at least they get job satisfaction . . . Retitled to Vampire Wars : Battle for the Universe when released on DVD this made-for-TV Canadian production was executive produced , written & directed by Matthew Hastings & I have to say I didn't think it was too bad , it certainly passed an hour & a half harmlessly enough if nothing else . The script mixes a bit of Aliens ( 1986 ) , a touch of Starship Troopers ( 1997 ) with a smidgen of John Carpenter's Vampires ( 1998 ) & adds a dash of Blade ( 1998 ) & starts of very brightly with a surprisingly gory & fast moving opening twenty odd minutes , unfortunately the film can't really sustain this & never recaptures the heights of this opening sequence . My overwhelming problem with Bloodsuckers is that there is a definite lack of story here , the film just goes from one sub plot to another & never really settles down into one consistent story . For instance it starts out with the Vampire hunters hunting down some Vampires & you think this will be the common theme throughout the film but no , then there's a rescue mission on a planet where they are almost overrun by Vampires but nothing long lasting becomes of it , the film then introduces a new kind of parasitic worm like Vampire & again I thought this is what the film is going to be about but again it quickly forgets about it & shifts onto yet another different race of Vampires & yet another different planet . The whole film feels very fragmented & disjointed as a result . The character's are awful clichés & a few of them are very annoying especially the ugly Chinese girl Rosa who thinks she's ' hard ' & is basically a Vasquez from Aliens rip-off only not as good . Director Hastings does alright , despite what people on the IMDb say I thought the special effects are surprisingly good with reasonably good looking CGI computer effects which aren't overused & I was pleased to see all the blood & gore effects were actually physical on set make-up effects . This has a pleasing amount of blood & gore , from bodies with legs ripped off , stakings , blood spurts , gory gunshot wounds , Vampire worms bursting out of people's chests & severed limbs Bloodsuckers is a pretty gory film & that's a good thing in my book . There are a few homages in here as well , in particular one set of Vampires are called Leatherfaces as in Leatherface from The Texas Chainsaw Massacre films while another race are know as the Voorhees which is obviously a nod to Jason Voorhees the zombie killer from the Friday the 13th films , or then again maybe it's just a coincidence ? With a modest budget of about $1 , 700 , 000 Bloodsuckers is well made , the futuristic sets are pretty good & as already mentioned the effects are more than satisfactory . Shot in British Colombia in Canada . The acting isn't good , the usually brilliant Michael Ironside is only in for about 10 minutes & he gives a terrible performance but he's no worse than anyone else & he's got every right to be pssed off if this is the sort of crap he's been reduced to . A special mention for Leanne Adachi as Rosa who not only gives an awful performance but makes her character so irritating & unlikable you want her to die , horribly ( the character that is , not the actress ! ) . Bloodsuckers is a better film than I had any right to expect , it's not perfect but as a one off watch to pass the time it's reasonably good , gory fast moving fun . It ' borrows ' heavily from other films but that gives it a certain familiarity .
Pretty good sequel to Hitchcock's classic .	Psycho II is set twenty two years after the events of the original Psycho ( 1960 ) & starts as Norman Bates ( Anthony Perkins ) is declared legally sane & released from the asylum . Norman heads back to his home town & his motel , while working in a roadside diner Norman meets & befriends young waitress Mary Samuels ( Meg Tilly ) . After Mary is dumped by her boyfriend Norman invites her to stay with him in his large house which she does . At first Norman seems fine & perfectly sane but he starts receiving phone-calls & hand written notes from his mother , his dead mother . Then when dead bodies start to turn up it seems Norman may be up to his old tricks . . . Directed by Richard Franklin this sequel to Alfred Hitchcock's classic original is actually a pretty good psychological thriller with a hint of teen slasher film thrown in there for the 80's crowd's . Hitchcock made the original Psycho in 1960 & I guess no-one wanted to make a sequel while the great man was still around so when Hitchcock died in 1980 it's no real coincidence that both this filmed sequel & Robert Bloch's novel Psycho II ( both of which are completely different ) were produced . The script here by Tom Holland ( who appears in the film as Deputy Norris ) is a clever follow up to the original , there's plenty of good twist's & turns especially at the end when all the the events of the film come together really nicely in a somewhat bleak series of incidents & coincidences . I liked it but the problem with a film such as this where all it's impact & effectiveness comes from it's surprises & twist's is that once you've seen it the main strengths of the film are lost forever & as such has little in the way of replay value . The character's are all well written & fleshed out , there's some good dialogue & I like how the plot progresses . At around 110 minutes long there's plenty of time for the plot to develop , the pace is pretty good although a bit slow on occasion so don't expect lots of action as Psycho II relies on clever storytelling & some great twist's . The motel was rebuilt for the film in meticulous detail & the sets & look of the film overall feels a lot like the original . To cater for the 80's audience there's some nudity here as this time a shower scene yields some naked female flesh rather than a brutal murder & there's some slasher style murders with a stabbing , slashings , someone gets a large knife stuck into their mouth & a rotten corpse is seen . Apparently the telly version is padded out with extra scenes although at 110 minutes I think it's long enough as it is . With a supposed budget of about $5 , 000 , 000 Psycho II has good production values & some stylish cinematography with some very effective lighting . Shot mostly on the Universal Studios back-lot , the same one that recently burnt down . Meg Tilly has publicly gone on record as saying her worst experience in the film business was working with Anthony Perkins in this while both Perkins & Vera Miles return from the original . Robert Loggia & Dennis Franz supply good support . Psycho II was a much better film than I was expecting , it does try to please the 80's crowd a bit & once you know the twist's you will never be able to watch it in quite the same way again but for a first time viewing this is a clever psychological thriller with some neat surprises . Followed by Psycho III ( 1986 ) & Psycho IV : The Beginning ( 1990 ) .
" We might aspire to be good but our real fascination lies with evil . " I thought it was decent .	The Final Conflict sees the Antichrist Damien Thorn ( Sam Neill ) now 32 years old & has him wanting to be the American ambassador to Britain , by a complete coincidence the current ambassador ( Robert Arden ) has an unfortunate incident which leaves him with his brains splattered on a wall & as a result the President ( Mason Adams ) does then indeed give Damien the job . Taking the position Damien moves to London & becomes romantically involved with a TV news-reporter named Kate Reynolds ( Lisa Harrow ) , however he has bigger issues on his mind as a triangular star configuration signals the birth of the second coming of Christ somewhere in Britain so he orders his worshippers to kill every baby boy born on the same night . If that wasn't enough a group of seven priest's from Italy now possess the seven daggers of Meggido which are the only things on Earth which can kill Damien & are on a mission to do just that , an Antichrist's life is just never easy is it ? This English American co-production was directed by Graham Baker & I actually thought it was a decent horror film that passed the time harmlessly enough . The Final Conflict was the third entry in The Omen ( 1976 ) series of films & while probably not quite as good as the previous two films I don't think it deserves some of the stick it gets , I mean what about Omen IV : The Awakening ( 1991 ) for heavens sake ? Anyway , the script by Andrew Birkin now has Damien the Antichrist as an adult who has to fend of killer priest's & the birth of the new Christ as well as continuing his quest to wipe out mankind . The one area where The Final Conflict disappoints is that it's not done on a grand enough scale , for a film that supposedly deals with the end of the World & ancient religious prophecy's it all feels very flat , empty & a bit too basic . For the majority of the film the script offers nothing more than a string of novelty supernatural set-piece deaths which are good to watch but they don't really drive the central story forward until the birth of the second Christ but even then this seems like just an excuse for more deaths & nothing significant becomes of it . Don't get me wrong because as a horror fan I love death , gore & mutilation but I must admit I expected something with a bit more resonance . The character's & dialogue are OK but apart from Damien they don't stand out , it moves along at a fair pace & has entertainment value although I did think it was a bit too long & the climax is a big let down . Director Baker does a decent job & the film has a nice basic but quite stylish look about it . There isn't much continuity between The Final Conflict & the other Omen films , for instance according to the original Omen the Antichrist Damien was born on the 6th June 1966 yet here The Final Conflict is set in 1982 & he is said to be 32 years old , not that it really matters though . There's a decent atmosphere although I can't say it's particularly scary or tension filled & that ending is very weak which really hurts the film as a whole because you are then stuck with negative feelings as the end credits roll despite what has gone before being alright . There's some good gore here including a burnt corpse & a great scene where someone gorily has their brains blown out ( I then love how his leg twitches ! ) which is one of those cool film moment bits that is definitely worth watching on DVD & slow-motioning it . Technically The Final Conflict is well made & it obvious had a decent budget . Largely shot in England in London & Cornwall the scenery is nice enough although as a side note Fox hunting as shown in The Final Conflict has since been made illegal so you animal lovers out there needn't worry about such things anymore . . . The acting is OK but no one stood out apart from Sam Neill in his first starring role & he would obviously go on to achieve lots of success as an actor unlike anyone else in this film . I was surprised to see loud mouth TV show hostess for hire Ruby Wax had a small role in this film . . . The Final Conflict isn't the greatest film in the World that's for sure but it ain't too bad when all said & done , not the ideal way to round the trilogy off but it could have been worse . I'd say it's worth a watch if nothing else . Also known as Omen III : The Final Conflict .
Decent Masters of Horror episode .	Masters of Horror : The V Word starts late one night in the American town of Collingswood as Justin ( Branden Nadon ) convinces his best friend Kerry ( Arjay Smith ) that it would be fun to drop in on his cousin James who works at a funeral home & look at a ' real ' dead body , hell that sounds like a whole load of fun to me . Once there they break in & are shocked to discover James body , they are then brutally attacked by guy ( Michael Ironside ) who tears Kerry's throat out as Justin manages to escape through a window . Later that night Justin hears a knock on his front door & is surprised to see Kerry standing there covered in blood , Kerry dies in front of Justin & returns as a Vampire . Will their friendship be enough to save Justin from ending up with the same fate ? This Canadian American co-production was episode 3 from season 2 of the Masters of Horror TV series , directed by Ernest R . Dickerson this is an alright Masters of Horror episode but nothing overly special . The script by the show's regular producer Mick Garris is the first time this show tackled the overused theme of Vampirism , it starts off quite promisingly but soon descends in a sickly sentimental drama about two friends & their unusual relationship a bit like The Lost Boys ( 1987 ) only not as good . I must admit I liked the way Michael Ironside portrayed the initial Vampire as some faceless , brutal , primitive killer with no emotion or regard for mind games but during the second half of The V Word drops this initial impression of him & goes into standard villain mode complete with bad dialogue . I didn't like how the two main teenage leads were written & the way they're character's developed either , do people really call each other ' dudes ' these days ? At 60 odd minutes this feels strangely boring at times & a tad dull as well , it just doesn't have much pace & the lacklustre storytelling doesn't help matters . This is alright I suppose but overall it's a touch forgettable . Director Dickerson does OK , I think a lot of it's a little dark at times & it's not scary or exciting either . There are a few homages to other Vampire & horror films including the original Dracula ( 1931 ) , Salem's Lot ( 1979 ) & Night of the Living dead ( 1968 ) . There are a few good moments though mostly courtesy of some more top notch special make-up effects by the boys at KNB effects , there are a couple of torn out blood spurting throats , someone has their eyes punctured with a needle , a bloody leg , a scene when Kerry tries to drink some water after he had been bitten & the water literally pour out of his ripped open throat & a gory decapitation by medical saw . Technically this is well made with good production values although it's a little flat & bland to look at without much in the way of style . The acting is alright , I never really cared for anyone to be honest & it totally wastes the fantastic Michael Ironside . The V Word is a perfectly watchable 60 odd minutes with some good gore but there wasn't much here that stood out , I don't know but while this isn't the worst Masters of Horror episode it's certainly not the best either . Still worth a watch especially if your a fan of the series or horror in general .
" If it looks like a dinosaur & acts like a dinosaur then it's a dinosaur . " Light hearted fun for the kids .	Primeval : # 1 . 1 starts as Connor Temple ( Andrew Lee Potts ) contacts Professor Nick Cutter ( Douglas Henshall ) about a story in a local newspaper in which eyewitnesses claim to have seen a ' monster ' in the Forest of Dean . Intrigued Nick & his lab assistant Stephen Hart ( James Murray ) drive out there with Connor , meanwhile zoologist & reptile expert Abby Maitland ( Hannah Spearritt ) is sent to investigate a strange reptilian creature found by a young local boy named Ben ( Jack Montgomery ) & discovers that it is an entirely new species unknown to her . Abby asks Ben to take her where he found it in the Forest of Dean nearby , at the same time Professor Cutter meets home office agent Claudia Brown ( Lucy Brown ) who all quickly discover that there are huge prehistoric dinosaurs roaming through England in the Forest of Dead as a result of an anomaly in time & not all of them are friendly . . . This was episode 1 from season 1 & the one that kicked off this made-for-TV Saturday teatime show that ITV was hoping would rival the BBC's highly successful new series of Doctor Who & generally jump on the sci-fi bandwagon , directed by Cilla Ware this is perfectly watchable CGI effects stuffed , aimed at the older teen type sci-fi action nonsense that is actually pretty good . The script by Adrian Hodges could be described as the English Jurassic Park ( 1992 ) & to be fair it moves along at a nice enough pace , it only lasts for 45 minutes , it has some fairly light hearted humorous moments & plenty of dinosaur related action which is all I hoped for really . I don't think the dinosaur's in Primeval are based on anything in reality & are totally fictitious so don't expect a history lesson . The character's have started off alright but I'm sure they will develop as the series progresses , the dialogue is fine & overall this isn't a bad effort at all , there are worse ways to spend three quarters of an hour in front of a TV & British made sci-fi is a bit of a rarity over here . It looks as if ITV put some money behind this & the first thing to mention is that the special effects , both CGI computer effects & the more traditional puppet effects , are actually very impressive . They have good detail & look the business , for instance there is a scene when a dinosaur is running down a corridor & it's tail flicks a plant pot off a window sill & it's those little bits of attention to detail that convince you this creature really exists . It's well made with good production values & while the acting varies it's OK . Primeval episode 1 is a good way to kick the series off , it's nothing that heavy but it's good fun & provides decent entertainment . Certainly worth a watch .
Pretty good remake .	Cape Fear starts as psycho Max Cady ( Robert De Niro ) is released from prison after serving fourteen years for sexual battery , while inside Max studied the law & found out that his defense lawyer Sam Bowden ( Nick Nolte ) withheld critical evidence which might have cleared him . Unhappy at losing fourteen years of his life unnecessarily Max sets out to get even , he rapes one of Sam's co-workers , he harasses him at every opportunity yet remains within the confines of the law & Max threatens Sam's family including poisoning their dog . Sam has nowhere left to turn , the police can't do anything & he fears for his own & his family's lives . . . Directed by Martin Scorsese this is a remake of the original Cape Fear ( 1962 ) & while I admit I have never seen the original I thought this was a decent enough film . The script by Wesley Strick was based on the novel ' The Executioners ' by John D . MacDonald & is a psychological thriller that is maybe a touch long at over two hours but entertains , has a good solid story , good character's & an edgy feel to it throughout . A lot of the film is spent showing how clever Cady is , how he can use the limits of the law to harass & threaten the Bowden family knowing the law can't touch him , it tires to point out the inadequacies of the law & that intent isn't taken into consideration . Then it tries to say that taking the law into your own hands is the only option , which of course it isn't but you can't really blame the Bowden's . Then the climax is a big Hollywood action set-piece on a boat that is out of control during a fierce storm . The film works well enough , it comes together nicely , the character's & dialogue are fine & it's reasonably logical . A good if unspectacular thriller that probably goes on for twenty odd minutes too long . Apparently Steven Spielberg was set to direct this but never & ended up as an executive producer on it . The film looks nice enough , there are lots of close-ups & some strange camera angles which give the film a bit of style . The violence isn't too graphic , there's some fights , a rape where Cady bites a chunk out of his victims cheek & there's some blood splatter as well . Director Scorsese apparently wanted Harrison Ford to play Bowden but I guess he didn't want to do it while the likes of Drew Barrymore & Reese Witherspoon both auditioned for the role of Danielle . With a supposed budget of about $35 , 000 , 000 this has good production values although some of the model shots of the boat at the end aren't that impressive . The acting is good , Robert De Niro is just watchable no matter what he is in while Nolte puts in a good performance too . Three cast members who appeared in the 1962 original , Gregory Peck , Robert Mitchum & Martin Balsam all have small roles in this remake . Cape Fear is a good solid psycho thriller remake that maybe goes on for a bit too long & outstays it's welcome but is worth watching all the same .
" We don't want that piece of snot aboard our spaceship . " Nothing special but one or two memorable moments help it .	The Creature Wasn't Nice starts in outer space where the U . S . spaceship Vertigo is on a mission to , well I don't know actually & we never find out . The ship & crew come across a previously unknown & undiscovered planet which Dr . Stark ( Patrick Macnee ) is very exited about , Captain Jamieson ( Leslie Nielsen ) organises an expedition to the surface which is there in no time whatsoever . The team find a small purple blob of jelly which Stark insists he takes back to the ship to study , they get back to the Vertigo & continue on their way . As Dr . Stark studies the blob of jelly he notices that it is growing at an amazing rate until the point where it has become a huge slimy one eyed alien creature that likes to eat people . Captain Jamieson , morale officer Annie McHugh ( Cindy Williams ) , mechanic Rodzinski ( Gerrit Graham ) & trainee John ( Bruce Kimmel ) are now on the creatures menu & must figure a way out to destroy the lump of carnivorous jelly before it eats them all . . . Written , staring & directed by Bruce Kimmel who was also responsible for the songs in the film I thought The Creature Wasn't Nice wasn't anything special but it has a few things going for it that just about saved it from being a complete waste of time as far as I was concerned . The script takes a while to get going & it's not until the 50 minute mark that the alien is seen & takes center stage , the film is supposedly a comedy although most of the jokes & humour don't really work . I would describe the film as being a spoof of Alien ( 1979 ) with a touch of The Green Slime ( 1969 ) & The Blob ( 1958 ) thrown in there for good measure , personally I reckon it would have worked better & had been vastly more successful if it had taken itself a bit more seriously & tried to pay homage to the men in rubber monster suits films from the 40's , 50's & 60's like Invasion of the Saucer Men ( 1957 ) or It ! The Terror from Beyond Space ( 1958 ) although that's just my opinion . Unfortunately for all it's good intentions The Creature Wasn't Nice just isn't a very good film , it's not funny , it's not clever & not that much actually happens in it . For me the film is saved by the alien jelly-baby itself & it's notorious rendition of ' I wanna eat your face ' while dancing , it's certainly a memorable sight & is funny more in a funny peculiar way than a funny laugh out loud way if that makes sense . Director Kimmel was obviously working on a low budge & pads the latter stages of the film out with lots of dull shots of people walking down the same corridor in search of the creature , actually it's not meant to be the same corridor but it's so obvious that it is with just the identification number changed . The film is also horribly dated , apparently set in the future there is a shot of Leslie Nielsen playing Space Invaders from the early 80's & they still use cassette tapes for music , there isn't a CD or iPod in sight . The special effects aren't anything to write home about either although I loved the dodgy looking creature & thought it was a shame that he never ate anyone on screen . Technically the film is rough , the special effects are anything but & the production design is cheap throughout . I personally rather liked the monster but he does look very fake at times . The acting is pretty bad from everyone ( maybe intentional ? Boy they did a good job if it was ) , Cindy Williams as the lone female is sort of cute in an early 80's way . Nielsen & Mcnee are really slumming it here & must have needed rent money badly , all I can say is was it really worth it boys ? The Creature Wasn't Nice has a few decent moments all involving the big crew eating purple jelly alien which amount to 10 or 15 minutes worth . Maybe I'm being a little generous here but I'll go with a stars ( stars , spaceship & aliens ? Get it ? Forget it . . . ) because of the alien & it song & dance routine , definitely an acquired taste . Overall though I'd say it deserves it's low IMDb score . . .
Kinky Midsomer Muders episode .	Midsomer Murders : Country Matters is set in the small Midsomer village of Elverton which is being torn apart by the proposed building of a ' Goodfare's ' supermarket which has divided local opinion & feeling right down the middle . As tempers flare during a village meet two local children Dora ( Sophie Stuckey ) & Otis ( Jack Crutch ) make a shocking discovery , they stumble across the dead body of environmental inspector Frank Hopkirk ( Tim Hardy ) in an old timber yard . DCI Tom Barnaby ( John Nettles ) & DC Ben Jones ( Jason Hughes ) are on the case , with some odd autopsy results to consider & a lack of cooperation Barnaby has to dig deep which uncovers sex , lies , affairs , a conspiracy & , of course , a motive for murder . . . Episode 6 from season 9 this Midsomer Murders mystery was directed by Richard Holthouse & ones has to say that this is a particularly kinky little Midsomer Murders episode & that's where the majority of the entertainment from Country Matters come from since the actual murder mystery elements are fairly forgettable . The script by Andrew Payne starts off in intriguing fashion but doesn't really go anywhere , there's only one murder in Country Matters & it's an odd one as he doesn't really have much connection to the killer & the motives are all rather obscure & not terribly convincing . I mean someone brutally stabs a man to death to get back at her husband & his lover ? It's a bit extreme isn't it ? Wouldn't a divorce suffice ? Like I said earlier the main entertainment value in Country Matters comes from the eccentric character's & their kinky somewhat perverted ways , from prostitutes who act like the ' perfect wife ' for clients to a damsel in distress role-play to the traditional English past time of a woman whipping a guy's backside for pleasure which leads to a very funny scene in which Barnaby is faced by a client who drops his trousers in front of him thinking he's part of the session ! Unfortunately there's not much focus on the murder & not that much actually happens so while it's fun & somewhat amusing because of the kinky sub-plots as a Midsomer Murders mystery there are better ones out there . As usual there's a fair bit of exposition so concentration is needed but the actual murder is quite simple when revealed & there's not a whole lot to it . There's only one murder in this one & it's off screen , there's shots of a dead body with stab wounds on an autopsy table but nothing overly violent . There are some funny scenes in which Barnaby & Jones watch several recording of the kinky goings-on in Elverton & Jones reactions are priceless . The acting is good from all involved . Country Matters is quite fun with a slightly kinky side but the actual murder in this episode is fairly mundane & forgettable . Good & worth watching but probably not for the right reasons .
" Who do they think we are , Gorillas ? " Mildly entertaining family Sci-Fi adventure .	Escape From the Planet of the Apes starts as a spacecraft is discovered floating in the sea on the Southern Californian Coast . The Army are called & surround the craft as it it brought ashore , out step what appear to be at first glance three humans in full spacesuit's & black visors on their helmets . The mysterious figures take their helmets off & everyone is shocked to see three apes standing there . They are taken to Los Angeles Zoo where they are quarantined & examined by animal psychiatrist Dr . Lewis Dixon ( Bradfrod Dillman ) & his partner Dr . Stephanie Branton ( Natalie Trundy ) who quickly discover that these are no ordinary apes , they dress themselves , are able to complete puzzles & solve problems & most unbelievably can talk . They introduce themselves as Cornelius ( Roddy McDowall ) his wife Zira ( Kim Hunter ) & Dr . Milo ( Sal Mineo ) & that they don't know how they came to be on Earth . Dr . Milo is killed by an angry Gorilla in the next cage so just Cornelius & Zira are left . Once the President ( William Windom ) gets word about the talking apes he sets up a public Presidential commission to which the world's press are invited . The committee & the world are stunned at what they see & hear , Cornelius & Zira become celebrities overnight being dubbed the ' aperonauts ' . However , the President's senior scientific adviser Dr . Otto Hasslein ( Eric Breaden ) doesn't trust Cornelius or Zira . The apes are treated like Royalty with chauffeur driven limo's , posh hotels , they hold parties which the cream of society attend & pretty much anything else they want . One day Zira collapses & it is revealed that she is pregnant , shortly after Hasslein gets Zira drunk & she lets slip a few things that maybe she shouldn't like in the future apes are the dominant species that run Earth & treat humans the way we treat animals now . He goes to the President & outlines his fears that letting these apes live & if Zira is allowed to give birth to her child it could be the first small step along the road that will lead to the eventual destruction of the human race . The President authorises further interrogation . . . Directed by Don Taylor Escape From the Planet of the Apes was the third of five ' Ape ' films that began with Planet of the Apes ( 1968 ) , then came Beneath the Planet of the Apes ( 1970 ) next was this then Conquest of the Planet of the Apes ( 1972 ) & finally Battle for the Planet of the Apes ( 1973 ) . The script by Paul Dehn based on characters created by Pierre Boulle is fairly entertaining , moves along at a nice pace & is actually quite humorous . I'm pretty sure the humour was intentional , it works well & is different from the other ' Ape ' films in this regard . Obviously there is a moral message here which Escape from the Planet of the Apes constantly hammers home , that of racism . How we treat others who are somehow different to us & who we perceive as a threat . Luckily it's not too heavy handed , for the most part works well & provides a good solid basis for the film . Escape From the Planet of the Apes features a darker than expected ending which worked for me on an emotional level , I kind of felt sorry for the hairy time-traveller's . Technically the film is good , nice widescreen cinematography by Joseph F . Biroc , another fine score by jerry Goldsmith & OK production values although it does look a little cheap at times & it hasn't dated too well either with cars , hairstyles & clothes really showing the films age up . The acting was fine throughout especially Hunter & McDowall who do a terrific job under all that rubber & fake hair . One thing I should mention is that I didn't think the make-up on the Ape characters was particularly impressive with the mouths on occasion not really matching what was supposed to be coming out & showing their limited movement , forget about lips as well ! The Gorilla in the zoo at the beginning looks awful , it's obviously some poor guy in a monkey suit ! Overall I thought Escape From the Planet of the Apes was an entertaining way to pass 100 odd minutes , it's silly on occasion but it's also good fun as a consequence & there are much worse films out there . Absolutely perfect family viewing especially if you can catch it on afternoon TV .
Watchable enough episode .	Midsomer Murders : Death in Chorus starts in Midsomer Worthy where Joyce Barnaby ( Jane Wymark ) & Dr George Bullard ( Barry Jackson ) are both enthusiastic members of the local choir run by the obsessive Reverend Lawrence Barker ( Peter Capaldi ) who strives for perfection in his attempts to win the annual Four Choir's contest with a rival village Aston Wherry . If bum notes weren't bad enough the lead tenor & local artist Connor Simpson ( Patrick Drury ) faints mid choir practise & then is found brutally beaten to death at his home later on that night . DCI Tom Barnaby ( John Nettles ) & DC Ben Jones ( Jason Hughes ) are on the case & since Barnaby's wife Joyce is a member of the choir he has a head start & some inside information . The case goes nowhere fast but then out of the blue local photographer & bird watcher Sam Judd ( John Cording ) is also found brutally murdered , with more questions than answers Barnaby has his work cut out to catch a killer . . . Episode 7 from season 9 this Midsomer Murders mystery was actually the 50th episode of the series to be made & was directed by Sarah Hellings & is a decent enough entry in the series although it's not the worst episode ever it's hardly the best either , I certainly think fans of the show will like it anyway . The murder plot here in Death in Chorus is pretty good , it's not a classic murder plot or one of the more memorable ones but it works well enough with forgery , gambling debts , conspiracies , affairs , threats & choir practise taking center stage . There really isn't much to say about Death in Chorus , fans of the show will know what to expect & won't be disappointed although it's never explained why Sam Judd was going to hand those photo's over to Carolyn or the significance of the killer sending Connor the pig's heart but everything works well enough . There's a few red herrings & some sub-plots to keep one interested that do come together quite nicely . The killers identity isn't too obvious & I doubt most would figure it out although they don't get much screen time before they are revealed so we , the audience , are never really given a chance of working it out . Death in Chorus reveals that DC Jones is in fact a superb tenor & both Joyce & Bullard sing together in a local choir , for those interested in series continuity & the like Death in Chrous is the first & only time in Midsomer Murders that Bullard's wife Kath is seen . The production values are top notch as usual , there are two murders in Death in Chorus with neither being particularly graphic although a pig's heart is seen . The real life location used for the Church where choir practise takes place was in Denham in Buckinghamshire & is in fact the same location later used in Blood Wedding ( 2008 ) from season eleven where Barnaby's daughter Cully gets married . The acting is pretty good from all involved as usual . Death in Chorus is a fine example of a great murder mystery telly show , it's not up there with the show's best episodes but it's not too far behind & Midsomer Murders fans should like all the same .
" I'll be damned , these boys eat brimstone's for breakfast . " OK early horror from Wes Craven .	Deadly Blessing tells the tale of Martha Schmidt ( Maren Jensen ) whose husband Tom ( Jonathon Gulla ) is killed in an apparent accident late one night on their farm , after the funeral two of Martha's friends Lana ( Sharon Stone ) & Vicky ( Susan Buckner ) decide to visit & support her through a bad time . Unfortunately things don't get any better for Martha as she is pestered by Tom's strict religious family who disowned Tom when he decided to marry Martha , they are part of a community known as the Hittites who reject all modern ways of life . Tom's Father in particular Isaiah ( Ernest Borgnine ) is a bit of a nutcase , he loses it even if one of the community even looks at a tractor the wrong way , it's a shovel & the clothes they stand up in for these guys & nowt else . Did one of the Hittites kill Tom in an act of vengeance ? Maybe but it becomes unlikely when a Hittite named William Gluntz ( Michael Berryman ) is found murdered in Martha's barn , as suspicions , untrust & the body count grow the feeling between Martha & the Hittites becomes worse & the Sheriff ( Kevin Cooney ) warns that if anything happens he'd only get there in time for the clean-up . . . Co-written & directed by Wes Craven I thought Deadly Blessing was an OK little horror film but didn't quite reach the heights of greatness for me . The script by Craven , Glenn M . Benest & Matthew Barr takes itself 110 % seriously & plays like a Friday the 13th ( 1980 ) type slasher for the most part with someone scaring & bumping off various cast members at random intervals , I suppose the only thing that's different is the background setting . The farming community & the strict religious sect , the character's are well fleshed out , the dialogue is alright & Deadly Blessing as a whole entertains up to a certain point . I found some of the story dull especially the religious nonsense , it's a little on the slow side although I thought the double twist ending was quite effective & probably the films major saving grace . I only watched it a few hours ago & to be perfectly honest I'm struggling to really remember it , it's one of those films which is OK to watch & it passes the time harmlessly enough but I doubt it would stay with you of any significant amount of time . Director Craven made Deadly Blessing a few years before he hit the big time with A Nightmare on Elm Street ( 1984 ) & over a decade before he hit the jackpot again with Scream ( 1996 ) & it's sequels , he does an OK job & it's well made with some pretty good scenes , Sharon Stone's walk through a creepy cobweb encrusted barn being one & a cool bit when someone tries to outrun a fire in a car . However Deadly Blessing is renown for one huge mistake , the scene in the bathtub when you can clearly see Jensen has a bikini on , it's so obvious when you see it you can't quite believe it . The film has that isolated backwoods community feel to it , it makes me glad I live in a city . . . Forget about any blood or gore as there isn't any really , a few stabbings & a bit of blood is yer lot . With an estimated budget of about $2 , 500 , 000 Deadly Blessing was a fairly well funded film , it's certainly well made & put together , the embarrassing bathtub scene apart . This features an early appearance from Sharon Stone , in fact it was her third screen appearance & her first substantial role . Personally she didn't impress me that much . A word for Ernest Borgnine , this guy is great value for money in these sorts of films & Deadly Blessing is no exception . He gives an intense over-the-top eye bulging performance as he get to utter lines like ' you are a stench in the nostrils of God ! ' to his own son . Class . Deadly Blessing is a decent fairly effective horror film , I thought it was watchable but it didn't exactly knock my socks off . I was there to be impressed , sadly I wasn't . Worth a watch for sure but just don't expect a masterpiece as it's far from Craven's best , although it's far from his worst either .
Can't quite deliver it's promise .	Hoboken Hollow is set in west Texas where three vagrant hitchhiker types , Andrew ( Kingsly Marin ) , Howie ( Rudolf Martin ) & Archie ( Erick Brubaker ) have all been picked up by & offered work by a couple of guys named Clayton ( C . Thomas Howell ) & Junior ( Jonathan Fraser ) who run a ranch out in the sticks called Hoboken Hollow , unfortunately for the three hitchhikers they soon wish they had been left at the side of the road as working at Hoboken Hollow is quite literally torture . Owned by the Broderick family life at Hoboken Hollow is tough , you are forced to work all day , you barely get any food , you don't get paid , you get treated like dirt & if you try to escape you end up in pieces hanging from meat hooks . However ex-soldier Trevor Lloyd ( Jason Connery ) has other ideas . . . Written , co-produced & directed by Glen Stephens I have mixed feelings about Hoboken Hollow , I sort of liked it & hated it in equal measure . The script starts off extremely promisingly in an isolated way out in the sticks The Texas Chainsaw Massacre ( 1974 ) , The Hills Have Eyes ( 1977 - 2006 ) & Wrong Turn ( 2003 ) sort of way as it sets the story up . Unfortunately while I was hoping for a slick , nasty atmospheric gore filled slasher by the mid way point of Hoboken Hollow I thought I was watching a prison drama as the story settles down & focuses on the trials & tribulations of the workers rather than the activity of the homicidal Broderick's , I'm all for a good story but this goes off the rails so to speak & once it had settled down I started to find myself becoming bored & a bit disinterested . Having said that it's still a decent little horror / thriller with some nice exploitation , some rape & a fair bit of torture although the final twist is as obvious as they come & I'm not convinced the guys kept there would have been so co-operative , I mean why didn't they just take the chainsaw they had been given to chop wood & use it against their captors , torturers & eventually murderers ? I know I would have at least tried to get away & a good old fashion chainsaw would have made for a decent weapon , right ? I'm confident I would have been able to convince my captors to hand over the keys to the pick-up truck with the aid of a trusty chainsaw . Director Stephens does a fine job , Hoboken Hollow is surprisingly well shot & has that isolated , baking hot Texan outback feel to it . The family & their house reminds of The Texas Chainsaw Massacre although Hoboken Hollow is more graphic & doesn't go for atmosphere or scares as much . The gore is OK , there's a severed arm , a severed foot fed to the pigs , someones leg is repeatedly stabbed , someone is impaled on a large spike & there's some torture where people are hanged , electrocuted & peed on . I think this is one of those films where you think you see more than you actually do . With a supposed budget of about $1 , 100 , 000 Hoboken Hollow is very well made with impressive production values & it actually looks like a proper film , the special effects are decent & there's a surprisingly good cast here including Sean Connery's son Jason ! I wonder if his dad's seen Hoboken Hollow because if he has I'd be more than interested to know what he thinks of it ! Michael Madsen , the great Dennis Hopper , Robert Carradine & Michelle's sister Dedee Pfeiffer who I haven't seen since her role in Vamp ( 1986 ) ! Hoboken Hollow is OK overall but I thought it had both good & bad points , unfortunately the bad points are pretty crucial to how I feel about it . It's an OK watch but I'd be hard pushed to recommend it to anyone .
" This carrot , as you call it , it constructed an aircraft capable of flying some millions of miles through space . " Average 50's Sci-Fi / monster film .	The Thing from Another World starts in a naval base in Anchorage , Alaska . Captain Patrick Hendry ( Kenneth Tobey ) is told by his superior General Fogarty ( David McMahon , uncredited ) to fly out to a research station at the North Pole where a Dr . Carrington ( Robert Cornthwaite ) has reported a possible crashed aircraft nearby . Hendry , his crew & a reporter named Scotty ( Douglas Spencer ) leave for the station . Once there they head out to the supposed crash site & see what looks like a tail fin poking up through the ice & whatever it belongs to frozen solid beneath . Dr . Carrington & his scientist mates come to the startling conclusion that buried beneath the ice is a spaceship from another world . Someone has the bright idea to use a thermite bomb which will thaw the ice but only succeeds in blowing the spaceship up . However someone notices that a human shaped figured is buried in the ice not far from the crash site , this time they use pick axes to cut a huge block of ice out of the ground containing the mysterious figure . Once back at the research station an idiot named Corporal Barnes ( William Self ) decides to put an electric blanket over the block of ice which has the unwanted effect of thawing out the thing from another world , no one in the station is safe as the thing needs blood to reproduce more of it's kind . . . Although Christian Nyby is credited with directing The Thing from Another World it's rumoured that Howard Hawkes took over during production , who knows for sure ? Anyway , I personally think The Thing from Another World is a vastly overrated film , in no way do I think it's a bad film as I actually think it's pretty good but I just can't see what so many enthuse about & why they proclaim it as one of the best films ever . The script by Charles Lederer based on the story ' Who Goes There ? ' by John W . Campbell Jr . ditches any shape-shifting elements which means there's no sense of paranoia or who we can & can't trust which is one of the reasons I think John Carpenter's The Thing ( 1982 ) is a much , much better & scarier film & I should probably say now that Carpenter's film is one of my all time favourite horror films that genuinely scared me when I first saw it unlike any other film I have ever seen . It's a little on the slow side & the thing itself only has three or four sequences throughout the entire film , having said that these scenes are without question some of the best Sci-Fi / horror the 50's gave us period . But at the end of the day The Thing from Another World is at heart a standard alien against human Sci-Fi film which the 50's are littered with . The conflict between the army who just want to kill the thing & the scientist's who want to try & communicate with it is far too straightforward . I also though the film was overpopulated , there are lot's of wasted character's who don't do anything or are even given a name which made it difficult to really emote with anyone as not many are developed beyond just ' being there ' . The thing itself is an intergalactic vegetable apparently , well it looks a lot like Frankenstein in a boiler suit to my eye's & rather wisely the filmmakers never let us get a good look at it . The acting is wooden & unconvincing , I felt everyone were reading their lines off cue-cards . One positive aspect about The Thing from Another World is that it's quite creepy & has a good atmosphere throughout especially for a film from the 50's . On a technical level The Thing from Another World is well made with nice clear crisp black & white cinematography , OK special effects & while the interiors of the research station are obviously studio set this gives them a somewhat cosy & claustrophobic feeling about them . Overall I think John Carpenter's remake is vastly superior in every way to this cheap & cheerful 50's attempt , it has much more atmosphere & is far scarier , the way the story unfolds is more realistic , the character's & acting are so much more believable & I'm a Kurt Russell fan & think he's fantastic in it , the special effects & gore are great & the shape-shifting element is used brilliantly by Carpenter to crank up the tension & paranoia making ourselves question who we can & can't trust unlike this one which probably couldn't include that aspect of the original story for various reasons which I felt was the main difference between the two & why Carpenter's is easily the better film . Overall The Thing from Another World certainly isn't a bad film by any stretch of the imagination but at the same time I don't think it quite deserves the ' classic ' reputation & all the plaudit's that it seems to have , definitely still worth a watch for sure though .
Unusual , graphic , bizarre & different take on Robert-Louis Stevenson's Novel The Strange Case of Doctor Jekyll and Mr . Hyde .	Docteur Jekyll et les Femmes , or the Bloodbath of Dr . Jekyll as I saw it under , opens to a paragraph of text that reads " there was something strange in my sensations , indescribably new and incredibly sweet . I knew myself , at the first breath of this new life , to be tenfold more wicked and the thought delighted me like wine " - Robert-Louis Stevenson ( the Strange Case of Doctor Jekyll and Mr . Hyde ) . Docteur Jekyll et les Femmes then shows a photo of Big Ben & the Houses of Parliment to establish the fact that we are in London . Then we see a young girl running down a dark deserted backstreet somewhere in London clutching her doll . A shadowy figure pursues her . He finally catches her & brutally beats her with his wooden walking cane , however he is disturbed & runs off . A reception ' in celebration of the engagement of Doctor Henry Jekyll and Fanny Osbourne ' is being held in Dr . Jekyll's ( Udo Kier ) large house where he lives with his Mother & conducts his experiments in his laboratory . The guests arrive one by one , Dr . Lanyon ( Howard Veron ) , a General ( Patrick Magee ) & his fine looking daughter , Reverend Donald Regan ( Clement Harari ) , a pharmacist named Mr . Moore , Dr . Jekyll's publisher Mr . Enfield & , of course , bride to be Fanny Osbourne ( Marina Pierro ) . First up is a little entertainment in the form of a ballet dancer named Victoria , then it's on with dinner where various discussions take place between the gentlemen & Dr . Jekyll about his work & theories about transcendentalism & his ability to achieve a higher consciousness through science . Victoria becomes sleepy & is shown to her room for the night , dinner ends and the various guests go their separate ways . Later on that night Victoria is brutally attacked , raped & murdered in her room by Mr . Hyde ( Gerard Zalcberg ) . Dr . Lanyon examines the body & comes to the conclusion that whoever performed the attack had an ' organ ' that was at least 35cm ( ! ) long and had a sharp pointed head as it had entered her , went right through her and pierced her stomach . After accidentally shooting a servant " misfortune follows misfortune . Madame , I have murdered your Chauffeur . My humblest apologies " the General goes a little bananas & takes charge . He grabs his daughter & stuffs her in a closet as Mr . Hyde enters their room , Mr . Hyde ties the General to a chair as his daughter steps out of the closet , bends over the nearest table & lifts her skirt and underwear up to reveal her rather shapely bottom . Mr . Hyde then proceeds to , well help himself to her rear entrance if you know what I mean as the General looks on . After he's had his fill , & filled the General's daughter ( ! ) , Mr . Hyde disappears again . The General has a disapproving tone of voice towards his daughter as she seemed to rather enjoy what Mr . Hyde was doing so he takes some rope and gives her a good whipping on her , still very shapely , bottom . However , Mr . Hyde's acts of debauchery are far from over as he goes after Mr . Moore whom Hyde rapes & kills . Doctor Jekyll's fiancé Fanny starts to become suspicious & worried so decides to try & find Jekyll in his laboratory , in doing so Fanny finds out Dr . Jekyll's secret that Mr . Hyde is in fact Jekyll's alter-ego brought on by bathing in various chemicals ! Mr . Hyde is starting to take over Jekyll who can no longer resist him , as the night draws on the surviving guests are terrorised by Mr . Hyde who seems to know no limits of depravity & sadism ! Written & directed by Walerian Borowczyk this is one strange adaptation of Robert-Louis Stevenson's Novel the Strange Case of Doctor Jekyll and Mr . Hyde . The best way to describe it would be a horror film with lashings of porn & sadism masquerading as art . The first thing that stands out about Docteur Jekyll et les Femmes is that it is a beautiful film to behold throughout . The photography by Noel Very is superb & captures the wonderful production design by Borowczyk extremely well . Rays of light , shadow , flickering candles & excellent use of space & confinement help make this an absolute pleasure to watch throughout . The period settings & costumes are also top-notch , this is as good , if not better , than any Hammer Horror period piece they produced which is high praise indeed . Docteur Jekyll et les femmes is a little slow at times , but I'm sure that was deliberate & as a whole I still found it both interesting & fascinating throughout it's 90 odd minute running time . I never felt bored or lost patience in it . The film tries to tackle various issues and really goes into the psyche of Jekyll & Hyde to paint a complex picture of them both , I also loved the ending when Fanny bathes in the chemicals , turns into her alter-ego & they both head of in the back of a carriage having rough , explicit , blood smeared sex on the back seat ! The cast is very good , especially Kier who is always fun to watch , although disappointingly he is dubbed throughout . This is a very strong film that borders on porn on occasion , lots of nudity by some lovely young ladies , rape , sex , sadism and some violence & gore thrown in for good measure too . I believe the version I watched was slightly cut , according to the IMDb's ' alternate versions ' section mine was missing some brief shots but most of what was described as being cut in various versions was there . The film is competently made throughout , much more so than I had expected . A different kind of Dr . Jekyll and Mr . Hyde film , but one that is interesting & entertaining throughout . If you have the stomach , aren't easily offended & can actually find a copy then I recommend this as a piece of challenging film-making , although it certainly isn't for all tastes that's for sure !
" Smells like Cow crap to me dad . . . " Entertaining & enjoyable , if a little bit shallow , Sci-Fi / horror film .	Crites are little furry , reptile like alien creatures who have a big mouth with lots of sharp teeth & an insatiable appetite . They are able to curl into a ball & shoot poisonous spikes from they're backs which slows down or paralyses their prey . They are being transported across the universe in a prison ship , but they escape & steal a spaceship for themselves & head for the only planet in the solar system to support life , that planet is Earth . Warden Zanti ( Micheal Lee Gogin ) calls in the cavalry in the shape of two bounty hunters . Helen ( Dee Wallace-Stone ) & Jay Brown ( Billy Green Bush ) live on a farm near Kansas with their two children , April ( Nadine Van der Velde ) & Brad ( Scott Grimes ) . Their normal peaceful existence is shattered one night when the Crites aboard their stolen spaceship land on their farm , Jay & Brad go to investigate & discover a half eaten cow . The Crites are clever little aliens & cut the Brown families phone lines & electricity , they are now trapped & have to desperately defend themselves against the Crites who just want to eat them . Meanwhile the two bounty hunters have arrived on Earth , one takes the appearance of a rock star named Johnny Steele ( Terrence Mann ) while the other eventually takes the form of the local deputy , Jeff Barnes ( Ethan Phillips ) when he is killed by the Crites . Harv ( M . Emmet Walsh ) the local Sheriff , starts to receive lots of calls about strange occurrences as the two bounty hunters cause mayhem wherever they go . But will the intergalactic bounty hunters be able to track the Crites down & make it to the Brown families farm before it's too late & everyone there ends up as Crite food ? Co-written & directed by Stephen Herek I though Critters was an enjoyable & undemanding Sci-Fi horror that's good fun . The script by Herek , Domonic Muir with ' additional scenes ' by Don Keith Opper as Don Opper who also stars in the film as Charlie McFadden , is well paced & isn't boring & thankfully doesn't seem to take itself too seriously . It's a little on the clichéd side , a bratty teenager saving the day , the sequel orientated ending , characters stranded in an isolated location under threat from monster / alien with no way of contacting the outside world & the standard cardboard cut out disposable characters who end up eaten , but Herek keeps things moving along at a nice pace & it isn't a huge problem here . The Crites themselves are pretty cool & the special effects surprisingly good throughout even if the giant Crite at the end is severely underused . I was particularly impressed with the optical effects , including the spaceships & view of earth from space among others considering the year Critters was made & the obvious budget restrictions . There isn't a whole lot of gore but that didn't seem to matter much as the film as a whole is solid , someone has their fingers bitten off & there are a few bite wounds but that's about it . The acting is good from all involved & Critters as a whole is well made with a definite slickness & professional shine . Overall Critters is a bit shallow & predictable but good fun to watch & is certainly a agreeable way to pass 80 odd minutes .
A fine horror film .	The Sixth Sense is set in Piladelphia where child psychologist Dr Malcolm Crowe ( Bruce Willis ) & his wife Anna ( Olivia Williams ) are enjoying a quiet evening in when one of Malcolm's former patients Vincent Grey ( Donnie Wahlberg ) breaks into his house & shoots him . . . Jump forward to ' The Next Fall ' & Malcolm has a new patient , a young troubled boy named Cole Sear ( Haley Joel Osment ) who is withdrawn , isolated & seems unhappy . As Malcolm befriends Cole & earns his trust Cole confesses a shocking secret that may well have a great impact on Malcolm himself . . . Written & directed by M . Night Shyamalan The Sixth Sense was a huge hit back in ' 99 with 6 Oscar nominations & it became only the fourth horror film to be nominated for best picture , as a film it is as good as ever . The script is somewhat slow & deliberately paced , The Sixth Sense relies on quality storytelling & strong character's for it's impact & entertainment value rather than the recent trend of Hollywood horror films that want to incorporate as many fancy expensive computer graphics as they can . The much talked about & often spoiled twist ending is highly effective especially if you are unaware of it . The character's are well developed & you actually care for them which makes the film what it is , the dialogue is good & I can't remember a single swear word in it . The Sixth Sense is a fantastic modern day ghost story that hits all the right notes & may even bring a tear to a few people's eyes . The only negative is that I don't like long films which The Sixth Sense feels like , that's not a specific problem I suppose as it's a personal preference that I just don't like long films as I lose interest very quickly & that's just the way I am so if your looking for explosions , fights & car chases every five minutes you'd best give this one a miss . When all said & done for what it is it's still a great film though . Director Shyamalan does a functional job , there's no flashy camera-work here but again this is a film which relies on good storytelling & character's that is set in the real world . Keeping things very low key works well . There's a good atmosphere & some pretty creepy scenes . With a supposed budget of $55 , 000 , 000 I don't quite know where the money went & The Sixth Sense doesn't look like it cost 55 big ones . It's flawlessly made & has great production values . The acting is fantastic & everyone puts in a heartfelt performance . The Sixth Sense is a great horror film , there's the odd scare , some great performances , an absorbing & engaging story together with a classic twist ending . Well worth a watch , definitely recommended .
" Your father's one sick mother , in fact your mother is one sick mother too . " A great horror thriller that tries to do something different .	The People Under the Stairs starts as a young boy Poindexter nicknamed Fool ( Brandon Adams ) learns that his family is about to be evicted from their crummy apartment , then his sister's boyfriend Leroy ( Ving Rhames ) convinces Fool to help him rob the landlords house & get the money his family needs . Together they break into the landlords house but find themselves trapped inside the house which has electrified doors & bars on all the windows , there they discover mutilated people kept in the basement by the crazy owners who want to create the perfect American family & take a very dim view on anyone who doesn't measure up . . . Written , executive produced & directed by Wes Craven who apparently wrote the film after seeing a newspaper article about similar sorts of child abuse The People Under the Stairs was made at a less than successful period for Craven , after the box-office success of A Nightmare on Elm Street ( 1984 ) Craven spent the next decade trying to recapture that success before his huge come back teen horror Scream ( 1996 ) . Between A Nightmare on Elm Street & Scream Craven's directorial output was erratic to say the least although he continued to make worthwhile films like The Serpent and the Rainbow ( 1988 ) , for every giant sized turkey like Vampire in Brooklyn ( 1995 ) there was a The People Under the Stairs which convinced the public & the studios to stick with him . I actually think The People Under the Stairs is easily amongst Craven's best work , I think it's a terrific film that is only let down by some silly slapstick comedy that doesn't work ( the chimney scene at the end comes to mind ) & a really cheesy ending in which all the poor people of the neighbourhood make a stand against the evil landlords . There is much to enjoy here , the film moves along like a rocket , it certainly isn't boring or dull , the film has a jet black sense of humour running through it with some amusing one-liners & some funny scenes , there's plenty of chases , horror & downright weirdness , the man running around the house wearing full bondage gear with a shotgun is a memorably oddball image . The People Under the Stairs is also quite different to anything I have ever seen before , I can't think of another film like it . Maybe that's why some people don't like it , we all spend so much time saying how films are so unoriginal but when something fresh & different like The People Under the Stairs comes along it is still attacked for being to weird or unrealistic or offbeat . I love it's unpredictability & that there's nothing else quite like it out there , there aren't many films you can say that about . Director Craven does a decent job here , although the house seems bigger on the inside than the outside would suggest there's plenty of tension , chases , near misses & lots of long winding claustrophobic corridors to keep the action tight & taught . I love the couple who own the hose , their names are never revealed but talk about the odd couple ! They are just plain crazy yet have real personality , in fact all of the character's are well written . There's a very gory scene when someone is gutted & their sliced open body is seen several times , other than that there's some blood splatter & a severed hand . With a supposed budget of about $6 , 000 , 000 the film has good production values & is well made with decent special effects . The acting is good , the kid is surprisingly not annoying while Everett McGill & Wendy Robie as the two psycho house owners put in suitably eccentric performances . The People Under the Stairs is one of Craven's best films , it's not perfect but it tries hard to be different & it has a good story which mixes dark humour & horror to great effect . The sequel The People Under the Stairs 2 ( 2008 ) sees the return of a now grown up Alice .
Unusual , but great , episode .	Werewolf : The Wolf Who Thought He Was a Man starts with Eric Cord ( John J . York ) hiking on a mountain road & meeting a German man named Hugo who picks him up , Hugo claims to be a keen hunter & is the owner of the Owl Mountain Lodge . Hugo offers Eric a job as a handyman which Eric accepts . At night Hugo entertains Eric with stories about hunting & the old days , Hugo also seems very interested in Wolves . Then four guests turn up at the lodge & one is brutally killed shortly after by what appears to be a Wolf of some sort . . . Episode six from the first & only season of Werewolf this originally aired in the US during August 1987 , directed by David Hemmings I actually rather liked this installment which is markedly different than the previous five . I must admit I wasn't expecting the twist in this episode , the fact that Hugo respects the Wolf as a hunter so much that he wants to be one going to the extent of running around at night dressed in a Wolfskin hunting his guest's at the lodge is quite a novel idea & the exposition at the start between himself & Eric sets his character & motivations up really well . Then of course Hugo finds out that Eric is a real Werewolf & he puts an end to Hugo's murderous ways during a slightly rushed climax , in fact that's the main problem with The Wolf Who Thought He Was a Man as it's just too short to really develop a surprisingly strong concept & story . Obviously the twenty five made for telly limitation is the main problem but at the same time at least it moves along at a good pace & is never boring but here the character's do suffer a bit especially the lodge guest's who are given next to no screen time . The Wolf Who Thought He Was a Man is also the very first episode of Werewolf not to feature either Skorzeny or bounty hunter Rogan . Although it has little to do with the actual episode I have to say I really liked the clever title too , I like the way the title refers to a Wolf thinking he was a man rather than the more literal explanation for the episode a man thinking he was a Wolf . All very meaningful & deep I'm sure ! You can tell that the makers weren't allowed to show much gore , the opportunity to show a mangled corpse is not taken although there's a shot of a decapitated head in a bag . The Werewolf make-up effects are as usual very good . After the rather lacklustre looking Spectre of the Wolf here the series goes back to a creepy horror film atmosphere with some well shot scenes , the inside of Hugo's shed with it's knives , stuffed animal heads , various bones & skull's with shaft's of moonlight coming in through cracks in the wooden walls is very evocative & just has a good horror film atmosphere about it . The Wolf Who Thought He Was a Man is a good stand alone episode of Werewolf , with none of the regular character's featuring apart from Eric this is one you could easily watch on it's own in isolation & it has nice glossy production values which help .
" Attention . . . non human presence detected . " I liked it .	Alien : Resurrection starts by informing us , the viewer that is , we are on a huge spaceship the ' USM Auriga Medical Research Vessel United Systems Military ' where on-board there are ' Standing Crew : 42 Enlisted , 7 Science Officers ' . The sinister & misguided Dr . Mason Wren ( J . E . Freeman ) & his team have recreated Ellen Ripley ( Sigourney Weaver ) by cloning her using blood samples , some 200 plus years after she originally died . They want the unborn queen alien inside of her & surgically remove it . Wren has military backing & General Perez ( Dan Hedaya ) pulls the strings & gets him what he wants . Enter ' The Betty Commercial Freighter Standing Crew : 6 Unregistered ' , it's crew of criminals & general scum have a delivery for Perez . A delivery of bodies in suspended animation which Wren uses to create more aliens . As you could probably guess it's not long before the aliens have escaped their rather inadequate cages & are rampaging all over the place killing everyone in sight . Ripley , aided by the alien DNA inside her , must once again do battle with the alien & prevent them from reaching planet Earth . . . Directed by Jean-Pierre Jeunet I liked Alien : Resurrection , I would probably rate it as third in a very good series of horror Sci-Fi films behind Alien ( 1979 ) & Aliens ( 1986 ) but ahead of Alien 3 ( 1992 ) . The script by Joss Whedon isn't a massive departure from the previous instalments , a group of people trapped in an isolated location in a race against time to survive & , of course , plenty of dark corridors . Alien : Resurrection tries to take the best elements from the first two , the spaceship setting from the original & the action from the second , & it does a pretty good job at entertaining for an hour and fifty odd minutes . The strong paternal themes are here again & run throughout the film , the character's are a bit clichéd like the obligatory tough guy , the token black character , the young female & the disposable character's who get no screen time at all except for when they are killed but Ripley is very different this time around which makes for an interesting new angle if nothing else . It moves along a nice pace & is never boring or uneventful . I must admit though I didn't like where Alien : Resurrection went with that stupid looking alien human hybrid at the end . French director Pierre Jeunet ( who apparently spoke very little English & had a translator on set at all times ) lights the majority of the film in dark browns & oranges which gives it a slightly drab & dull look . He films the action scenes quite stylishly with some nice shots although that ricocheting bullet is the height of stupidity , I would like to see anybody actually try it ! Overall the film has a nice style to it & is pleasing on the eyes . Thankfully he doesn't forget about the gore & Alien : Resurrection has to the goriest entry in the series , people have the tops of their heads bitten off , heads squashed , someone is frozen & breaks apart , aliens stick their tongues into & through people , a room full of dead bodies with their chests burst open & a cool bit where an alien burrows through someones head & pops out of their forehead plus there is a room full of gross genetic experiments gone ( very ) wrong . With a supposed budget of about $70 , 000 , 000 Alien : Resurrection is undoubtedly a fine looking film with that big budget Hollywood polish to it . Slick cinematography good production values & sets while the aliens themselves have never looked better , apart from one or two poor , by todays standards anyway , CGI shots . I love all that thick slime the aliens drool as well , of which there is plenty . Unfortunately I think the alien hybrid thing at the end looks absolutely awful & like someone wearing a rubber skull mask brought from a joke shop . The acting is OK but they aren't given much to work with . Personally I think Alien : Resurrection is a pretty good action / Sci-Fi / horror film that delivers on all counts , although it's nothing we haven't seen before . Still , definitely worth a watch .
I actually quite liked it .	Severed Ties starts with an opening narration by the main character who is sitting alone in a room in a wheelchair , Harrison Harrison ( Billy Morrissette , yes Harrison x2 is his name ! ) that goes something like this " red , blood red on white , nothing else would do . I got so desperate for the visions I would look for ways to cut myself . I wasn't always in this chair , there was a time when I could run and play but Mother never let me play . She told me I wasn't like the other boys , that I was special and besides like she always said it was too , too dangerous " . He then has a sketchy incomplete flashback to when his Father died in a fire . The main bulk of the film is told in flashback . Harrison is continuing his Fathers work in a laboratory in the basement of his Mothers , Helena Harrison ( Elke Sommer ) large mansion . Harrison is trying to develop a serum that regenerates organs and skin . He is basing his research on reptile genes as the reptile possesses the ability to regrow parts of it's body , well apparently anyway . Harrison finally succeeds in creating the serum . Helena , along with her accomplice Dr . Hans Vaughan ( Oliver Reed , he must have needed beer money badly ! ) tries to sell the serum to a company called ' Nordkem ' for a large sum of money . Harrison is against the idea as the serum should be available for everyone . In a struggle an accident occurs and Harrisons arm is severed . Harrison uses the serum on himself and his arm instantly regenerates , wonderful he thinks at first but soon realises there are strange horrifying side-effects with the serum he hadn't counted on . A homeless man know as ' Stripes ' ( Garrett Morris ) witnesses this and befriends Harrison . Stripes takes Harrison back to where he lives in the sewers with other homeless people . Helena and Vaughan are left with no serum and decide they must find Harrison or they will lose the money . After bribing a corrupt cop they track him down and retake the serum and kidnap his new girlfriend , Eve ( Denise Wallace ) . Together with Stipes and his mutant lizard arm he sets out to rescue Eve and take revenge . Directed by Damon Santostefano I actually quite liked this . It isn't brilliant or any sort of masterpiece but I had a decent enough time watching it . The script by Henry Dominic and John Nystrom is well paced and fairly entertaining . It's very silly but luckily never takes itself seriously . I think it was mean to be a comedy horror but the comedy doesn't quite work which I found to be advantageous as instead of slap-stick silliness I felt it came across more like dark comedy . The twisted ' unhappy ' ending was good and felt an appropriate way to round things off . It's just a shame about the middle third which tends to drag a little . The photography is OK and Santostefano has a stab at some style occasionally by lighting certain scenes in a very staged theatrical way that gives the film a slightly surreal feeling . Characters are likable enough and what on Earth is Oliver Redd and Elke Sommer doing in this ? ! Their fun to watch I guess , I think Santostefano must have a shoe fetish or something because he has Oliver Reed down on his knees cleaning Elke Sommers stilettos on two different occasions and throughout the film in general there are an unusually high amount of feet and shoe shots . The special effects are variable , some very impressive , others less so . The living arm effects aren't the best and they end up looking silly at times . There are a few good gore sequences , a severed arm , a ripped off face and someone has their lungs pulled out ! It's a pretty fun low-budget horror film overall that I quite liked but I don't think it's for everyone . Worth a watch if you can catch it on T . V . or find a copy going cheap somewhere .
Good episode .	Werewolf : Let Us Prey starts as Eric ( John J . York ) continuing his search for Skorzeny seeks refuge in a isolated monastery , there Eric is offed a place to sleep for a few days . While there Eric talks with Brother Patrick who tells him of a couple of people killed from the local town that have been blamed on a wild Cougar , Eric is not so sure & ask's if he knows of a man named Janos Skorzeny at which point Brother Patrick becomes very quiet . Eric becomes convinced that Skorzeny is either there or has been there , then Brother Patrick is killed & Eric becomes sure of it . However it soon turns out that Skorzeny may not be responsible for the killings after all . . . Episode ten from the first & only season of Werewolf this originally aired in the US during October 1987 , directed by James Darren this is a pretty solid episode all round . The script again has Eric wander into a small town or area & come up against a Werewolf as he continues to try & find Skorzeny , here it's a monastery full of Monk's . There has been a couple of killings in the local area attributed to a wild animal of some sort & we all know that there's a Werewolf on the loose & Let Us Prey ( the title is quite clever , Let Us Prey or rather Pray , get it ? ) becomes a sort of whodunit as Eric has to figure out which of the Monk's is in fact a Werewolf although because of the sub thirty minute duration it doesn't really have the time to set up a complicated mystery or do that much with the idea which is a shame because that might have been rather fun . This episode works well enough in what it tries to do , there's a pretty good ending too as the evil Werewolf is killed by falling on a silver crucifix . At twenty fives in length it's short & well worth a watch . Bounty hunter Rogan appears in this episode knocking on doors asking if anyone has seen Eric just like 90 % of his time on the show while Skorzeny is mentioned but not seen apart from in a brief flashback . Like the last episode Friendly Haven this one features a Werewolf on Werewolf fight although clearly the budget wasn't there to do much with the sequence . Again there's a really good atmosphere , especially the scenes set at night & one in particular where Eric talks to a Monk at night & his hood covers his bowed head & face & totally blacks it out . Never the most gory of show's there's a bit of blood but nothing graphic . Let Us Prey is a good solid Werewolf episode featuring an evil Werewolf Monk , what more do you want ? Despite the slightly rushed story which could have used a bit longer this one is well worth a watch if your a fan of the show you should definitely like it .
Good Werewolf episode with an abrupt ending .	Werewolf : King of the Road starts as drifter Eric Cord ( John J . York ) jumps on a goods train just outside Portland that is headed towards Kansas City . When aboard Eric discovers that he is not the only stowaway on the train hitching a free ride as he meets a group of homeless bums trying to get as far away from Portland as possible after six of their homeless bum friends had been brutally murdered . Later that night while the men sleep someone slits the throat of another & Eric is blamed being the new boy but he manages to convince the other's that he didn't do it & a impromptu murder trial is set up with Eric as the judge , as the evidence is heard & examined Eric realises that the case has more to do with him & his Werewolf curse than it first seemed . . . Episode twenty three from the one & only season of Werewolf this originally aired in the US during February 1988 , directed by Richard Colla this is a fine episode with a very good story that is slightly let down by a very abrupt ending which rounds things off in unsatisfactory fashion . I must say I really liked the setting here the old rickety train as it rolls along at night & I also really liked the murder mystery story in which a group of homeless men hold a trial to discover who slit the throat of one of their number with Eric as the judge & the dovetailing of his Werewolf curse with the mystery as it unfolds . So up to a certain point King of the Road is actually a nice taught murder mystery that eventually turns into an out & out horror but one couldn't help but feel the ending was rather rushed , we don't even get to see the supposed Werewolf on Werewolf fight as the programme just cuts away as they start to fight & never returns . I liked the story & the twists , I liked the character's & I liked the setting but the ending is a bit of a downer . King of the Road is the second episode of Werewolf which is set around train tracks coming after Blood on the Tracks ( 1987 ) in which Eric was a railroad worker . As usual there are one or two nice Werewolf transformation special effects scenes but no real blood or gore apart from a dead body or two . Like a lot of this series there's a great atmosphere in King of the Road with a really well lit set with plenty of shadows & patches illuminated by flickering fire , this looks very nice indeed just like the majority of this series . Veteran actor Sid Haig who is probably better known as the star of Rob Zombie's two films House of 1000 Corpse ( 2003 ) & The Devil's Rejects ( 2005 ) as captain Spalding makes a guest appearance here . King of the Road is for twenty odd minutes a great Werewolf episode that has some nice atmosphere , twists & character's but I can't help feel the rushed ending lets it down somewhat .
Werewolf goes Dawn of the Dead !	Werewolf : A Material Girl starts as teenage drifter Eric Cord ( John J . York ) gets a definite lead on his Werewolf nemesis Skorzeny who has been killing homeless teenagers . Eric manages to catch up with a Werewolf killing two homeless teens & chases it into a nearby shopping mall , trying to shoot & kill Skorzeny with his silver bullets Eric quickly runs out of ammo but is determined not to let Skorzeny escape & miss the opportunity to break the Werewolf curse . At the mall while searching for Skorzeny Eric meets a homeless teenage girl named Michelle ( Lisanne Falk ) who claims to have met Skorzeny . With just one silver bullet left & the vicious Skorzeny on the loose can Eric end the curse once & for all ? Episode twenty four from the one & only season of Werewolf this originally aired in the US during Februrary 1988 ( the IMDb is wrong , how could it have aired back in October 1987 ? ) , directed by James Darren & seemingly taking it's title from a Madonna song A Material Girl is another impressive episode from a generally very good show . I suppose the one thing that stands out about A Material Girl is that it's set largely in a huge shopping mall just like George A . Romero's classic zombie film Dawn of the Dead ( 1978 ) & the remake ( 2004 ) , it wouldn't surprise me to learn that the inspiration for A Material Girl came from Dawn of the Dead . Although not as rich in themes & allusions as Dawn of the Dead there's still some time for a little bit of social commentary & what shopping malls mean in society to various people . The episode is split into two really with the first half consisting of Eric chasing Skorzeny through a darkly lit & empty shopping mall where it's firmly in horror territory & the second half sees him meet up with Michelle when the episode becomes more of a character driven piece . The twist ending might surprise you but if your a regular watcher of the series & have seen the previous twenty three episodes of Werewolf then it might not be quite as surprising & despite Skorzeny being constantly mentioned he doesn't actually feature in this episode at all . As usual for this series A Material Girl is well shot with lots of atmosphere & nice cinematography . There's a couple of clichéd jump moments including a satisfying ' jack in the box ' scene , there are quite a few effective sequences set in a toy store where creepy child's toys that are seem eerily lit . There's a little in-joke here in this episode as Eric walks past an electronic cash register in a shop & the counter reads 6 . 66 ! No real gore in this one & this is one of the few episodes that Eric doesn't change into a Werewolf . A Material Girl is another very good episode of Werewolf that mixes good character's & a really good horror atmosphere although the fact that they are so short can be frustrating as the endings are usually rushed .
" There's no telephones . . . if there were the long distance rates would be something else . " Pretty good fun .	Planet of Dinosaurs starts deep in uncharted space where the spacecraft Odyssey has run into problems with it's reactor , which explodes but not before Captain Lee Norsythe ( Louie Lawless ) & his crew manage to escape in a spare shuttle designed for just such an occasion . The craft lands on the nearest planet which helpfully has exactly the same atmosphere as Earth so everyone can breathe & walk around properly , in fact the planet looks very much like Earth . As the stranded survivors wait to be rescued they discover the planet is infested with prehistoric dinosaurs which want to eat them & communications officer Cindy ( Mary Appleseth ) is the first to end up as dinosaur food . They must learn to adapt to their surroundings in order to survive as they wait for the rescue party to show up , but being in uncharted space will a rescue team ever turn up ? Produced & directed by James K . Shea Planet of Dinosaurs is a bit of an obscurity , certainly here in the UK it is anyway but like any good good sci-fi / horror / monster film fan I finally managed to track a copy down after a pretty long search . Unfortunately like most films you look forward to seeing for such a long period the final product didn't live up to my hopes but I still found it an enjoyable piece of sci-fi . The script by Ralph Lucas tries to be different & succeeds to an extent but it is a bit uneven as it can moves along at a nice pace & then suddenly become frustratingly dull . There are good ideas here , the usual soul searching , having to cope without technology & the lack of clichés although I think that might be down to the filmmakers not being able to write proper characterisation as most of the character's in Planet of Dinosaurs seem lifeless , surplus to requirements & undistinguished . I wasn't convinced by the logic that if they killed the T-Rex everything would be alright & that it was the only living T-Rex on the planet , surely there would be more than one T-Rex ? When it's good it's very entertaining but when it's bad it's embarrassing . However , I would recommend it to sci-fi / monster fans who I'm sure would enjoy it to some degree . Director Shea must have been working on a low budget & I think he did a pretty good job . The real star of Planet of Dinosaurs are the special effects which are extremely impressive when all is considered , I mean don't expect it to be on a par with the latest multi million CGI work but their very good in their own right . The stop-motion animation is great & so is the interaction between them & the human cast . From T-Rex's to a Stegosaurus & from a Brontosaurus to Triceratops & the filmmakers even manage to stick a giant spider in there . There's some cool dinosaur sequences that impressed me , it's just a shame that the rest of the film isn't quite as impressive suffering from a somewhat repetitive story which doesn't really go anywhere . Technically the film varies , from the impressive special effects & dinosaurs to the awful sound as it's painfully obvious that the entire film is badly dubbed throughout . The acting is pretty poor which doesn't help but the dinosaurs are the real stars here . . . Planet of Dinosaurs was something that little bit different , the special effects are good & I found it a very watchable way to pass just over 80 minutes . Definitely worth a watch if you can find a copy . Footage from Planet of Dinosaurs was edited into no less than four other films , The Phantom Empire ( 1986 ) , Wizards of the Demon Sword ( 1991 ) , Galaxy of the Dinosaurs ( 1992 ) & Teenage Cavegirl ( 2004 ) while it uses the monster from The Beast from 20 , 000 Fathoms ( 1953 ) in one of it's scenes .
A good solid Western but available in several different versions .	Pat Garrett & Billy the Kid starts in New Mexico 1881 where Sheriff Pat Garrett ( James Coburn ) catches up with his old outlaw buddy William H . Bonney AKA Billy the Kid ( Kris Kristofferson ) , since they were friends Pat ask's Billy to leave but in 5 days he'll make him . Billy isn't keen on the idea & eventually Pat arrests him , however Billy escapes the hang man's noose & goes on the run hitching up with his old gang . Pat is assigned the task to take him down which is just what he intends to do . . . Directed by Sam Peckinpah this is a solid telling of the infamous story about two men who once were friends but ended up enemies , the first thing to say is that Pat Garrett & Billy the Kid is available in several versions & I will be basing my comments on the longer 122 minute restored version from 1988 . The script by Rudolph Wurlitzer is pretty good but so many things can happen between finishing a script & it actually appearing in theatres & Pat Garrett & Billy the Kid is a very good example of that with the multiple cuts , who knows which one is closest to his original script ? The two central character's make this film what it is , Pat Garrett & Bill the Kid who live in changing times & while Pat accepts it & becomes a Sheriff Billy won't let go of the past where you could shoot a man & claim it was self defence . They are only on screen together for a few minutes & the rest of the time the film follows them as they travel from place to place , I must admit it became a little boring after like a solid 100 odd minutes of it but there was something here that I liked . I thought it was well written although some of the dialogue is hard to make out & understand , it tells a good story & there are some memorable scenes here . The ending is one of the quietest & low key your likely to see & I didn't like the framing of the story where Garrett is shot dead as I thought it was a bit of a downer ( having said that I think the 122 minute version is the only cut where this happens ) . Director Peckinpah does a good job although it's well known that he was drinking heavily when he made this & that the studio interfered with the final cut , there's plenty of stylish scenes here & it's very nice to look at . Animal lovers beware as several chickens have their heads shot off at the start , there's a forward horse fall & a slow motion cock fight as many people seem to get upset whenever an animal is killed . There's not much violence here except for a few shoot-outs , there are some naked female breasts on show too if that sort of thing interests you . According to the IMDb this had an estimated budget of $4 , 638 , 783 which sounds a very specific number to be an ' estimate ' to me . This is well made with high production values , nice widescreen cinematography , an unusual soundtrack & good period design . The acting is very good with James Coburn standing out for me . Pat Garrett & Billy the Kid in it's 122 minutes version is a good solid entertaining Western but maybe a little slow going at times & I wasn't keen on the ending either . A good film for sure but one you need to be patient with .
" I am astonishingly sane . " Classic film .	Frankenstein starts with Elizabeth ( Mae Clarke ) confiding in her friend Victor ( John Boles ) that she is worried about her fiancé Dr . Henry Frankenstein ( Colin Clive ) , he talks of nothing but his ' experiments ' & locks himself away in an old windmill to conduct them . They both decide to go & see him along with his university professor Dr . Waldman ( Edward Van Sloan ) to try & talk some sense into him . They arrive late one night , as a thunder storm rages outside Dr . Frankenstein admits that he has created a body from stitching corpses together & claims that he has discovered a way to re-animate the body , using his lab equipment & bolts of lightening Dr . Frankenstein's experiments prove to be successful & his creation ( Boris Karloff ) comes to life . However the monster turns out to be very violent & escapes the lab & begins to terrorise a nearby town . . . Directed by James Whale this is the classic Frankenstein film which all others have tried to emulate , this one set the standard & still does . Released by Universal in the same year as the just as influential Dracula both helped start a horror boom . Based on the novel by Mary Shelley the extremely effective script by Francis Edward Faragoh & Garrett Fort moves along at a nice pace & is never boring , it manages to create a fair amount of sympathy for the monster & has a good solid story that works well even today , over 75 years since it was made . It's debatable whether a better adaptation of Frankenstein has ever been made , although having said that I personally still think Flesh for Frankenstein ( 1974 ) is my favourite version of the tale . Director Whale does a terrific job here , there are some truly classic & iconic images in Frankenstein . The sets are great from the stone castle to the run down windmill to a spooky graveyard . The Frankenstein make-up by Jack Pierce is impressive & is the way everyone now envisions the Frankenstein monster to look like with a flat head , bolts through his neck & stitch work across his body . The special effects are actually pretty good including a burning mill at the end . With a supposed budget of about $291 , 000 Frankenstein is well made & pretty impressive to watch even today , I'd have thought a lot of time & effort went into the film . The acting was OK , Clive's Dr . Frankenstein is a touch theatrical at times but he has a certain madness that seems appropriate . Frankenstein is a great film , it's as simple & straight forward as that . Obviously don't expect any explosions or CGI effects as this is a film which relies on a good story done properly . A must for horror fans & definitely worth a watch for anyone else . A sequel Bride of Frankenstein ( 1935 ) was made several years later & in my opinion is actually better than this .
OK addition to the series .	Ginger Snaps Back : The Beginning is set in Canada , the year is 1815 & in it's push Westward the Northern Trading Company has established a fort in the middle of nowhere , it's been over two months since any kind of supplies have reached the last few remaining men still manning the outpost . However one day two orphaned sisters named Bridgitte ( Emily Perkins ) & Ginger Fitzgerald ( Katharine Isabelle ) arrive looking for help & shelter after Bridgitte's leg was caught in a bear trap . Chief of the fort Wallace Rowlands ( Tom McCamus ) allows them to stay although both Bridgitte & Ginger notice a real unease & lots of tension amongst the men . There are many graves , many men have been lost to creatures of the night , Werewolves who attack the fort & try to kill everyone inside . The men are trapped hoping fresh supplies & more manpower will arrive but thus far none has . That night Ginger is bitten by what she at first thought was a young boy but was in fact a Werewolf , Ginger herself slowly begins to change . As suspicions grow & the arguing becomes more intense it's every man , or woman , for themselves as it's not only the Werewolves outside they have to worry about . . . This Canadian production was co-produced & directed by Grant Harvey , Ginger Snaps Back : The Beginning was the third entry in the Ginger Snaps series of films & is a prequel to the previous two . I personally think this is a decent enough film , while maybe not quite as good as the original Ginger Snaps ( 2000 ) I think it's better than Ginger Snaps : Unleashed ( 2004 ) which didn't do much for me . The script by Stephen Massicotte & Christina Ray is a little slow going at times although the basic story is solid , the dialogue is good & the character's are well fleshed out although the relationships between people , especially Ginger & Bridgitte , isn't quite as deep or complex as the previous installments . It was a bit strange at times watching the character's of Bridgitte & Ginger in the 19th century when I remember them from the contemporary Ginger Snaps films , the filmmakers don't really try to explain or connect the events in Ginger Snaps Back : The Beginning with the other two . There's a fair amount of action & Werewolf attacks so it's never boring although I didn't like the spiritual Indian nonsense about seeing into the future . One thing I must say is that I loved the 19th century setting , I thought it provided a brilliant & atmospheric backdrop to the story & is probably my favourite thing about Ginger Snaps Back : The Beginning . Director Harvey does a great job of giving Ginger Snaps Back : The Beginning a cool visual style to it , the indoor scenes are lit by the warm dull yellows of candles while the outdoor scenes are filmed with an almost total lack of colour , in fact it's not far off black and white which gives the whole things a stark , basic , cold & hostile feel to it which is sits perfectly along with the on screen action . The films drips with atmosphere & I love any period set horror film , the costumes , the sets , the props & isolation of the fort helps make Ginger Snaps Back : The Beginning feel like a proper horror film from start to finish . The Werewolves only really make an appearance at the end & they look pretty cool if not entirely convincing . There isn't much gore , a few Werewolf bites , some spurting blood , a fountain of blood spraying from someones neck wound at the end , various mauled dead bodies & someone is shot through the head . Technically the film is great , obviously I wasn't around in 1815 so I can't give a first hand account of how accurately Ginger Snaps Back : The Beginning recreates the period but it seems like a lot of time & attention went into the look of the film . It has good production values & it's generally well made throughout . The acting was pretty good but the spark between Perkins & Isabelle wasn't quite as bright this time around . Ginger Snaps Back : The Beginning ( am I the only one who thinks that's a clever title ? ) is a good solid horror film that I liked , it's not perfect but it provides 90 odd minutes of solid entertainment & that's about all you can ask for really . Definitely worth a watch . Shot back-to-back with Ginger Snaps : Unleashed .
" What would you do with 90 , 000 donuts ? " Very enjoyable action thriller .	Breakdown is set in the open desert as married couple Jeff ( Kurt Russell ) & Amy Taylor ( Kathleen Quinlan ) are driving from Massachusetts to San Diego in order to move house , unfortunately their flashy 4x4 jeep breaks down in the middle of nowhere . Luckily helpful truck driver Warren ' Red ' Barr ( J . T . Walsh ) happens to stop & offers them assistance , Amy decides to get into Warre's truck & drive to the next diner to phone for help while Jeff stays with his expensive flashy 4x4 , while on his own Jeff manages to get the jeep working again & sets off to meet up with his wife but when he gets to the diner there is no sign of her & no-one there remembers seeing her . Jeff starts to panic & with good reason as he soon finds out that Amy has been kidnapped by Warren & his gang & want a $90 , 000 ransom or he will kill her . Jeff is on his own & has to think quickly in order to save his wife as he doesn't have the 90 , 000 the thought of which is the only thing keeping Amy alive . . . Co-written & directed by Jonathan Mostow one has to say that Breakdown is a terrific , taught & often quite tense little action thriller that I personally rate highly , in my opinion it's certainly one of the better Hollywood made thrillers out there anyway . The script is nice & focused , there's not too much extraneous exposition & just about every scene moves the story forward in some way . The character's are simple yet you understand them , for instance we never find out too much about Jeff or Amy except they are moving house & find themselves in the situation they do & that's all we really need to know , the bad guy's don't have any deep motivation or anything & quite simply they do what they do for the money which is all that we need to know . The film has a good pace , the script throw's all sorts of difficult situations at Jeff & it's very entertaining & often fairly tense to see how he overcomes them . The script also has a really good balance , there's some gripping & intriguing thriller elements , there's some nice action adventure scenes , there's a touch of mystery & just enough exposition without slowing things down too much . Overall I liked Breakdown a lot & it's as simple & straight forward as that , if you think about it hard enough there are probably certain things that Jeff might have done differently & maybe considered slight plot-holes ( the IMDb message boards for Breakdown are full of ' why didn't Jeff do this ' or ' why didn't he do that ' type threads ) but that's just nitpicking really since Breakdown is a film so just enjoy it as such . There are some nice action sequences here as a jeeps ends up in a river , there's a couple of car chases including a pretty impressive one at the end & a tense scene in which Jeff has to climb along a truck while it is moving . The one part I didn't like was at the very end as the large truck was hanging off the bridge , my main problem with the scene was what was it hanging by exactly ? There's a bit of violence & some profanity but nothing excessive . With a supposed budget of about $36 , 000 , 000 Breakdown is well made with good Hollywood polished production values , filmed in California star Kurt Russell was apparently helicoptered in & out of the shooting location so he could be with his family in Los Angeles at night . I must admit to being a bit of a Kurt Russell fan & have liked him in every film of his I have seen & I think he's great in this while the late J . T . Walsh makes for a cold calculating villain . Breakdown is a terrific action thriller & for me has the added bonus of starring one of my favourite Hollywood actors , I liked it a lot & definitely recommend it . Well worth a watch .
Enjoyable monster flick .	The Valley of Gwangi is set in Mexico ' Somewhere South of the Rio Grande . . . At the Turn of the Century ' where the Breckenridge Rodeo Wild West Show stops & perform their cowboy routines for the locals . The show is owned by T . J . Breckenridge ( Gila Golan ) & has hit upon hard times , it seems no-one wants to pay to see staged cowboy show's , I can't blame them really . Anyway , her ex-boyfriend & ex-partner Tuck Kirby ( James Franciscus ) working for rival show Buffalo Bill's wants to buy her out . Breckenridge isn't interested & show's Tuck her latest big star attraction , a miniature prehistoric ancestor of the modern day horse called an Eohippus . English paleontologist Professor Horace Bromley ( Laurence Naismith ) learns of the Eohippus & discovers it was found in the ' Forbidden Valley ' where all sorts of dinosaurs & prehistoric creatures roam including Gwangi an Allosaurus . . . Directed by Jim O'Connolly the idea for a film that mixed monsters & cowboys was originally conceived by stop motion animator Willis O'Brien in a story he called ' Valley of the Mist ' which he pitched as a sequel to King Kong ( 1933 ) but couldn't get it made , eventually O'Brien's protégé & probably the most famous stop motion animator ever Ray Harryhausen managed to use the concept here in The Valley of Gwangi . The script by William Bast ( IMDb lists Julian More with ' additional material ' ) is actually very similar to King Kong & the two films are very alike , the discovery of a land that time forgot where prehistoric monsters & dinosaurs roam , the superstitious locals , the capture of a wild & dangerous monster , people putting it on public display to make money & the obligatory ending where the creature escapes & goes on a destructive rampage through some sort of civilised location with hordes of locals running & screaming in panic , all you have to do is change the locations & change the giant ape of King Kong to a dinosaur here in The Valley of Gwangi . The story also bears more than a passing resemblance to The Beast of Hollow Mountain ( 1956 ) & takes a while to get going , it's a good fifty odd minutes before the dinosaurs appear although once they do it's monster sized fun & action all the way until the end credits . The character's are poor broad stereotypes , silly quaint cowboys , an annoying kid for comedy relief , the fragile woman who falls for the male hero & although the script tries to say something meaningful about the exploitation of animals & the pursuit of scientific knowledge it never really follows through on the ideas & themes it raises . But then again no-one is going to watch The Valley of Gwangi for it's moralistic , deep & meaningful story are they ? No , they will be watching it for the monsters & dinosaurs & on that score there is much to enjoy here . Harryhausen animates some truly superb set-pieces here from the capture of Gwangi to the fight between Gwangi & a Styracosaur to Tuck's fight with a Pterodactyl to Gwangi's rampage through the town to his fight with an Elephant ( that has a ridiculous sound effect accompanying it ) to the climatic fire inside a cathedral ( which considering it's made of stone burns very quickly ) . Since Gwangi & the other dinosaurs are animated by a real person as opposed to a computer they have real personality & the effects are generally excellent throughout . My only real problem is that there's nothing that memorable here , a dinosaur is a dinosaur & Gwangi doesn't hold up well against some of Harryhausen's other creations . Gwangi is meant to be an Allosaurus but he was actually modelled on a Tyranosaurus . Apparently the word Gwangi is native American & means lizard . Technically the film is very good , the special effects are the obvious highlight although the depiction of the wild west & cowboys in general is extremely dated . There are some animal cruelty issues here as well , there are a lot of horse falls here as well as a brief bull fight which both look like the animals safety was a secondary consideration . Set in Mexico the film was actually shot in Spain . The acting isn't great , it's all rather wooden & stiff with the rubber dinosaurs having much more life to them . The Valley of Gwangi is a treat for giant monster , dinosaur & Harryhausen lovers out there like myself , however the story really isn't that great & is pretty much King Kong with cowboys . Once it gets going in the second half then it's fantastic but I don't think the first half will last long in ones memory .
" Tell me , does your purple little husband lend you some of his tampons ? " Nice enough thriller .	Oxygen starts one sunny afternoon in New York City as Frances Hannon ( Laila Robins ) is walking her pet dog around the block , a man ( Adrien Brody ) approaches her a begins to chat to her , at first he seems a pleasant & charming young man but he soon changes as he becomes aggressive , he threatens her & makes her get into a nearby car . He , & his accomplice ( Michael Henderson ) , drive off to a wood where they bury Frances alive in a wooden coffin , she has about 24 hours worth of air left & the clock is ticking . . . Detective Madeline Foster ( Maura Tierney ) & her partner Jesse ( Paul Calderon ) are called onto the task force to find Frances & apprehend her kidnappers . They are both briefed , Frances rich husband Clarke ( James Naughton ) has received a videotape that demands he pay a $1 , 000 , 000 ransom or Frances will be left to suffocate & die an agonising & terrifying death . The money drop off goes OK until the kidnapper figures out the police are watching him , Foster has no choice but to arrest him without the knowledge of where Frances is & once in custody he refuses to say anything , will Frances be found in time before she runs out of air & why does her young kidnapper seem so clam , almost as if he is enjoying himself or maybe there are other less clear motives behind the events of the previous day . . . Written , co-produced & directed by Richard Shepard I thought Oxygen was a nice tight , taut little thriller that isn't the sort of thing I usually like but it has a certain something about it . The script at it's most basic is pretty gripping & absorbing as time runs out for Frances while Harry the kidnapper toys with the police & FBI , although I have to say once Harry is arrested & stuck in that room the pace slackens considerably . I would say that what Oxygen deals with is what many would consider their worst nightmare , being buried alive & slowly running out of air & perhaps more could have been done with this concept as it concentrates a little too much on the games played by Harry with the authorities . One more thing , Harry's precise & exact plans rely far too much on luck & things he simply has no control over to make me convinced that he could have come up with such an elaborate & implausible scheme . I mean his whole plan is based on the fact that he would be placed in one room , in that they would handcuff him in a certain way & that he would definitely be able to pick the locks , that they would agree with his demands to the absolute letter & that there is a air conditioning vent in the room just big enough to crawl through & that he could actually reach it as well as being able to keep total control over a hostage so they don't raise the alarm . That's an awful lot of coincidences & a whole lot of luck as well . The character's are well developed & fleshed out , they have a little bit more depth than usual I loved the monologue about the lethal injection from the FBI agent who was meant to be intimidating . Director Shepard does an OK job without being particularly outstanding , as a whole Oxygen is a little bland & forgettable but the solid story should paper over the lacklustre visuals . The film lacks any real tension or excitement but it does retain ones interest throughout , again thanks to the story . There isn't any violence to speak of except a gory gunshot wound at the end . Technically Oxygen is OK , it's competently made , there are a few nice New York shots & a couple of minor car chases although there isn't much action as it's a dialogue & storyline driven film . The acting is good especially from the two leads , Tierney as the cop & the effective Brody as the cold , calculating villain . Oxygen is a good thriller , it's short on action or violence but it has a good strong story to compensate . Personally I think it's well worth a watch .
Pretty good haunted house horror & probably the best of Amityville films to date .	Amityville II : The Possession , which claims to be a prequel to the original Amityville Horror ( 1979 ) , once again takes us to the infamous haunted Long Island house . The film opens with a shot of the house with a ' for sale ' sign in the foreground as the camera pans around the outside while the credits play . Amityville II : The Possession then cuts to another shot of the house , this time the sign says ' sold ' . An Italian American family have brought the house & are moving in , husband & wife Anthony ( Burt Young ) & Dolores Montelli ( Rutanya Alda ) with their four children , Sonny ( Jack Magner ) , Patricia ( Diane Franklin ) , Jan ( Erika Katz ) & Mark ( Brent Katz ) . At first glance the large house seems perfect & is beautiful , but almost immediately things start to go wrong for the family . Dolores senses a presence in the basement which she claims touched her , when they sit down for their first meal that night & try to say a prayer the mirror on the wall suddenly falls off & begins to crack . Also that night the family are disturbed by banging on their front door & obscene images are mysteriously painted on walls . Sonny starts to hear strange demonic voices on his Walkman as well . The incidents don't stop & as a result the family starts to fall apart . However Dolores still senses an evil presence & contacts their local priest , Father Frank Adamsky ( James Olson ) & asks him to bless their house . Meanwhile Sonny is becoming more & more withdrawn as the evil presence in the house specifically singles him out & starts to possess him , the voices on his Walkman convince Sonny to seduce & have sex with his younger sister Patricia & eventually tries to get Sonny to kill his entire family . After witnessing some of these events & doing some research Father Adamsky starts to realise what's going on & is convinced that Sonny is being possessed by evil spirits , but is it too late to save Sonny & the Montelli family ? Directed by Damiano Damiani I thought Amityville II : The Possession was actually a pretty good horror film & I don't usually like the haunted house sub-genre . The script by Tommy Lee Wallace based on the book ' Murder in Amityville ' by Hans Holzer is well paced , entertaining , has decent characters & tries to tackle a few unexpected issues like incest , the break down of the family unit & wife / child abuse . Unfortunately some of these issues seem a little out of place & are treated in a slightly exploitative & lightweight way . But at the end of the day Amityville II : The Possession is basically a horror film at heart & exploitation is what we want so I'll forgive it . It uses all the haunted house clichés , doors opening & closing on their own , voices , eerie noises , ghostly wind that blows things all over the place , the kind elderly believing priest & spooky hallucinations but Amityville II : The Possession integrates them into the story as well as any other haunted house film . The first half of the film concentrates on these family elements while the second half is all about the possession & eventual exorcism which basically feels like The Exorcist ( 1973 ) condensed into 40 odd minutes complete with green vomit , but it moves along nicely & isn't boring . There is some brief nudity but the incest scenes aren't particularly graphic . There isn't much gore or violence , some expanding flesh , some shotgun wounds & a cool looking sequence where someone messily rips the skin off their face to reveal a monster . The acting is solid throughout by all involved but I did find Burt Young's character , the abusive Anthony very unlikeable . Technically Amityville II : The Possession is a strong film , music , photography , editing , special effects & production design are all above average , very polished & better than usual from a low budget horror . Overall I like Amityville II : The Possession a lot more than I thought I would , it's a good solid horror film that kept me entertained for 100 odd minutes & has a little more depth & style than usual without sacrificing the exploitation elements than us horror fans expect & love ! Definitely worth watching .
Rather weird & surreal at times but I liked it .	Phenomena is set in Switzerland , in an area known as the ' Swiss Transylvania ' where Jennifer Corvino ( Jennifer Connolly ) the teenage daughter of an American film star is about to start a year long term at the Richard Wagner International School for Girls . However the other kids don't take to her & Jennifer starts to sleepwalk , Jennifer meets & befriends entomologist Professor John McGregor ( Donald Pleasence ) . Together they realise Jennifer has the ability to telepathically communicate with insects & that her unique power may hold the key to uncovering the identity of a vicious killer who has been murdering local girls . . . This Italian production was co-written , produced & directed by Dario Argento & despite a very silly premise & one or two plot holes I really rather liked Phenomena , it's certainly one of Argento's better efforts . The script pinches it's location of a girls boarding school from Argento's earlier film Suspiria ( 1977 ) but that's just about where the connection ends since here in Phenomena Argento turns in an interesting take on the murder mystery detective thriller , the film has a good mix of ideas & I will admit that not all of those ideas come off perfectly but after countless generic Halloween ( 1978 ) & Friday the 13th ( 1980 ) slasher rip-offs it's nice to see a film be brave & try something just that little bit different . The most interesting & yet at the same time bizarre & unlikely aspect of Phenomena is the telepathic link between Jennifer & insects which on the face of it sounds silly & daft but I liked it , the only thing disappointing aspect is that Argento does nothing with the concept & by the end of the film it's almost totally forgotten about as a clever means to push the plot forward . It's not a perfect film , for instance there's never any real motive given to the killer besides that he is deformed , despite a killer bumping off various girls no-one seems that bothered when Jennifer's roommate Sophia goes missing ( they don't even call the police ) , the reasons behind Professor McGregor's super intelligent chimp is never fully explained & the whole scene when it just happens to find a straight razor lying in a public rubbish bin is hard to believe ( that it would know what one is , that one would just happen to be there & that the chimp knew how to use it ) & it's never explained how the killer gets away from Inspector Geiger at the end to confront Jennifer . But overall I found it a surreal , interestingly plotted horror thriller that I enjoyed a lot , Phenomena is probably one of those films which as a whole adds up to more than the sum of it's parts . Director Argento is well known for his stylish films & I have to say that Phenomena is maybe one of his blandest , sure there are one or two nice camera movements & angles but overall I was a little disappointed . Phenomena is one of those films where multiple versions are available , the full cut is the 110 minute version which is the one I saw , then there's other variations on this which cut some of the gore & then there's the heavily reedited 82 minute version known under the title Creepers which was then cut even further on VHS here in the UK during the 80's . It goes without saying make sure you get hold of the 110 minute cut preferably an anamorphic widescreen DVD copy , that's how I saw Phenomena last night on a big Sony widescreen telly & the film looked terrific & it actually becomes very clear that Argento wildly over-lit certain scenes set at night . The gore levels aren't amazing , a woman is stabbed through the hand , there's a decapitation , a mouldy maggot ridden head & severed hand , a slime pit of dead rotting bodies , a woman has a large blade stuck in the back of her head & it exits through her mouth & there's some razor blade face slashing . With a supposed budget of about $3 , 800 , 000 Phenomena is well made , the production values are good & the Swiss locations are nice to look at . Now a Hollywood star Jennifer Connelly was only fifteen when she made this & she does alright I suppose while Vera Brandt was played by Fiore Argento , the daughter of director Dario . I must admit I am not sure about Donald Pleasence's alleged Scottish accent though , it seems to come & go between scenes . Phenomena is a strange film , I would suspect the mainstream Hollywood blockbuster crowd would pretty much hate it but anyone looking for something a bit different & a bit out there then you could do a lot worse than Phenomena . There's just something about it that I liked . Apparently a sequel was going to be made in 2001 but due to a contract Argento had with Medusa it never got off the ground .
" 172 , 000 comics are sold in the US everyday . " I liked it .	Unbreakable starts as the Eastrail Train # 177 from New York to Philadelphia derails with the loss of 131 lives , the only survivor is security guard David Dunn ( Bruce Willis ) who has walked away from the crash without a single scratch on him . Shortly after the crash he receives a letter from Elijah Price ( Samuel L . Jackson ) the owner of an an art gallery specialising in comic books & related artwork , Elijah suffers from a rare disease called Osteogenesis Imperfecta which means he has very brittle bones which are easily broken . Elijah tells David that he feels there are people on the opposite side of the scale to him , people with very strong bones & great strength & him walking away from that train crash is proof that he is one of them . Elijah tries to convince David that he is a real life comic book superhero & that his unique powers should be used for good . . . Written , co-produced & directed by M . Night Shyamalan Unbreakable was his follow up to the huge commercial success that was The Sixth Sense ( 1999 ) & both films have much in common , both are set in Philedelphia , both star Bruce Willis who again has a strong involvement with a young boy ( no , not in that way . . . ) & both have a genuinely effective & unexpected twist ending . I'll start straight away by saying that I think both The Sixth Sense & Unbreakable are really good films which I like & I find it hard to call one better than the other , if I'm honest I'd probably say The Sixth Sense is slightly better but it's a close run thing . The script which takes itself very seriously has an intriguing & fascinating premise , forget your overblown superhero flicks like Batman ( 1988 ) , X-Men ( 2000 ) , Spider-Man ( 2002 ) & Fantastic Four ( 2005 ) as this is very low key & tries to portray an ordinary man suddenly discovering that he has superhuman powers . Again though it's low key as he can't shoot lasers from his eyes or fly , in fact the whole film is very quiet & very ordinary which was obviously a deliberate thing on the filmmakers part . It's all here with his weakness , his arch enemy & using his powers for good but in a very subtle sort of way that I just liked . The dialogue is very sparse & not much is said , the character's are good & there are lots of little things they do or say that you may not pick up on the first time you watch it but suddenly fall into place as the story progresses . My only real problem is that it's a bit slow & the ending while having a nice twist feels unfinished & rushed . Director Shyamalan does alright although the film is a bit dreary to watch as all the colours are muted , it's as if the film takes place in a world where there isn't a sun & it's overcast all the time . There are no big action scenes or anything like that so don't expect any as the film relies on strong storytelling & an interesting premise . At least Unbreakable is something just that bit different & for that alone it's worth a watch . I wouldn't say it's ever scary like The Sixth Sense but it has a certain atmosphere to it . With a supposed budget of about $75 , 000 , 000 one has to ask where all the money went although the reported $20 , 000 , 000 Willis was paid accounts for a fair chunk of it . It's well made but not particularly stylish or memorable , I don't know it's just a bit drab looking if I'm honest although I'm sure that was intentional . The acting is pretty good although why does everyone whisper so often ? I personally like Willis as an actor & Samuel L . Jackson so I don't have a problem with the cast except for the kid who is annoying but isn't in it enough to totally spoil it . According to the IMDb the usually terrible Julianne Moore was offered the part of Willis ' wife & I'm throughly glad she turned it down / didn't get it . Unbreakable is a strange & different sort of fantasy film , it's not for everyone that's for sure but I have to say I really liked it a lot & recommend it . Shyamalan went on to make the alien invasion flick Signs ( 2002 ) next with Mel Gibson which I also really liked .
I actually really rather like Signs . . .	Signs is set in Bucks County , Pennsylvania where Graham Hess ( Mel Gibson ) lives on a farm with his his two young children Bo ( Abigail Breslin ) & Morgan ( Rory Culkin ) plus his younger brother Merrill ( Joaquin Phoenix ) , one morning they discover elaborate crop circles in their corn fields . At first they think it's a hoax but there are newsflashes all over the TV which say these crop circles have appeared all over the world , then things turn really sinister when UFO's start appearing in the sky by these crop circles & when footage of an alien is caught on a camcorder the Hess family have to consider the possibility of an alien invasion . . . Written , produced & directed by M . Night Shyamalan who also has a fairly big role in the film as Ray Reddy who ran over Mel Gibson's character's wife I actually really liked Signs . The script which takes itself pretty seriously could be described as somewhat slow at times but I thought the story was engaging & pretty intriguing which kept me hooked . I really liked all the character's here , OK maybe the kids are a touch annoying as they tend to be in films but I thought this was pretty well written with a decent balance between humour & seriousness . The alien invasion stuff is kept to a minimum & little is seen of the aliens themselves , this is a film where less is more & it retains a air of creepiness around the aliens . It's not big on action either & concentrates on the Hess family & almost totally ignores the outside world which is unusual for recent alien flicks which tend to be nothing more than showcase's for overblown CGI computer effects as in Independence Day ( 1996 ) & War of the Worlds ( 2005 ) so Signs is a nice change of pace , I mean there's nothing wrong with huge CGI special effects filled films but Signs was just a nice change . Director Shyamalan does a fine job but then he had a mega budget to help him , for those looking for another The Sixth Sense ( 1999 ) will probably be disappointed as Signs is a very different film & doesn't have such a great ending . I thought there were some creepy moments here & the restraint in the usage of CGI here helps create an ominous atmosphere & leaves something to the audiences imagination which is a novelty these days . What CGI is here is very good & the alien when eventually seen looks OK if a little unimaginative . With a whopping budget of $72 , 000 , 000 Signs obviously looks the business & has that big budget Hollywood look although that huge figure did surprise me a bit as there's not many special effects , there's only about five character's in the entire film & it takes place in the same location for the most part so 72 big ones does seem like quite a lot considering the end result . I thought the acting was pretty good throughout . Signs in my opinion is a great alien invasion flick that tells it's story in a different sort of way , I liked it a lot although I know for a fact there's a lot of hate out there for it . Personally I think it's well worth a watch .
Good but not brilliant .	Live Free or Die Hard , known as Die Hard 4 . 0 elsewhere around the world , starts as New York detective John McClane ( Bruce Willis ) is ordered to pick up a computer hacker geek named Matt Ferrell ( Justin Long ) as a favour to the FBI who are investigating a strange computer hack at Washington . However it appears the FBI aren't the only ones interested in Ferrell as when McClane gets to his apartment several heavily armed men try to kill him , McClane saves Ferrell but finds himself in the middle of a plot to throw the entire United States into chaos by hacking into & disabling everything major system like paralysing the public transportation system , all forms of communication , gas , electricity , the internet etc . A disgruntled ex FBI nut called Thomas Gabriel ( Timothy Olyphant ) & his men intend to use the chaos as a cover for one of the biggest robbery's ever , that is unless McClane can stop them . . . Directed by Len Wiseman this is the fourth entry in the popular Die Hard series of action films & is good but not brilliant & if I'm honest I was a little disappointed with it overall . The script by Mark Bomback was apparently based on an ' artlicle ' called A Farewell to Arms by John Carlin & I've heard of films being based on novels but a newspaper / magazine article ? Although when it comes down to it the plot is basically the same as the original Die Hard ( 1988 ) as a group of thieves use the cover of terrorism to steal lots of money . Anyway , I liked Live Free or Die Hard for what it was as it moves along like a rocket which is good since it lasts for over two hours & it prevents boredom setting in , it's nice to see John McClane back in action & speaking of action there's some truly fantastic set-pieces & stunts . However I also didn't like Live Free or Die Hard for what it wasn't , it didn't feel like a Die Hard film with the obvious toning down of the profanity & violence , I mean the villains in this don't seem to put up any resistance to McClane & he simply ends up shooting them , there's no big fights with bone crunching sound effects at all & the violence is very tame to none existent ( although it'll come as no surprise if a longer more graphic version is released on DVD ) . Then there's the main villain Thomas Gabriel who has to be one of the most bland & dull bad guys ever , he's just some young guy casually dressed who only gets to shoot one person in the leg & that's it , he's just not evil enough & who on Earth decided to kill off Mai ( Maggie Q ) so early into the film ? She was easily the best villain & she was a babe as well , at least she could actually fight . I don't know , I liked it but at the same time I was disappointed . Director Wiseman does OK here & he keeps the action moving along , unfortunately by dragging the Die Hard series kicking & screaming into the new millennium ( the last film in the series Die Hard : With A Vengeance ( 1995 ) was made over a decade ago ) the focus of the storyline is all about modern hi-tech computers , cell phones , the internet , hacking , defence systems & it has the feel of distancing McClane from the action , since a lot of what happens takes place in cyberspace there's nothing physical there if you know what I mean & the film tries to make the point that we rely on such technology too much . McClane & Gabriel never meet until the very end either which also has the unwanted effect of distancing them , sure they talk over the phone but it's not the same as an intense face-to-face meeting is it ? The action set-pieces are at times spectacular with cars launched into flying helicopters , chases , shoot-outs , huge explosions & my favourite sequence when McClane is driving a large semi truck under & over some elevated freeways being fired upon by a fighter jet . Most of it is very over-the-top & not based in reality as McClane can seemingly jump from a jet onto a concrete freeway & survive with no major injuries . With a supposed budget of about $110 , 000 , 000 there's plenty of action on screen for the money but that really does sound like a lot doesn't it ? It extremely well made with high production values & great stunt / effects work . The acting is alright but this isn't classic foul mouthed wise cracking Willis , why oh why did Fox cut this down ? Live Free or Die Hard as a stand alone action film is a pretty darn fine one but as the fourth entry in possibly the greatest action series ever it comes across as a bit of a disappointment , as I said I thought it was good & I liked it but I didn't love it as there's a lot of room for improvement .
A really enjoyable mix of light horror & comedy that works quite well .	House starts with an elaborate shot of a large Californian mansion , the camera starts around back and in one continuous free flowing shot circles the house eventually resting on a delivery boy ( James Calvert as Jimmy Calvert ) pulling up outside on his moped . He walks up to the front door and as he knocks it opens . He calls out to the owner Mrs . Elizabeth Hooper ( Susan French ) , he says he will leave the groceries on the table but still does not get an answer . He feels uneasy & starts to look around the house . After going upstairs he finds Elizabeth dead , seemingly having committed suicide by hanging herself . Elizabeth's nephew Roger Cobb ( William Katt ) is a Vietnam Vet , successful novelist who is currently struggling to write his new book about his experiences in Vietnam & is recently divorced from television actress Sandy Sinclaire ( Kay Lenz ) after their young son Jimmy ( Erik & Mark Silver , identical twins maybe ? ) had disappeared without a trace while at the house . Roger decides to stay in his Aunt's old house to get away from things & concentrate on his novel . Almost immediately strange & bizarre occurrences start to happen , Roger sees the ghost of his Aunt who warns him to leave & when he opens a closet is attacked by a slimy monster . Things become worse as Roger is attacked by flying garden tools & fat ugly monsters , Roger starts to investigate the house & becomes convinced that the answer to finding his lost son lies within if he manages to survive ! Directed by Steve Miner I thought House was an entertaining & modest little comedy horror . The script by Ethan Wiley based on a story by Fred Dekker mixes the horror & dark humour quite well , it keeps the film moving along at a nice pace although one or two sections dragged a little . Things aren't tied up that well though , the haunted house goings-on are not explained at all , was it just Ben using the house as revenge or is the house really haunted ? And what connection does Ben have to the house in the first place ? House isn't a sadistic film in terms of violence & gore but there is some here & a few fun looking monsters , I especially liked the fat female creature in her pink dress & Big Ben's ( Richard Moll ) rotting zombie make-up is reasonably impressive & he makes for a cool bad guy . William Katt makes for a likable hero & George Wendt's nosey neighbour Harold Gorton is very funny even though he isn't in the film that much . None of the other characters are developed that much . Technically the film is OK , nothing outstanding but nothing too bad either except the Vietnam flashback sequences that were obviously shot in a cheap looking studio set . The special effects , while their a little cheesy & aren't exactly going to impress anyone too much these days are watchable enough . Overall I liked House's fun mix of horror & comedy , it's a decent enough way to pass an hour and a half & you could do a lot worse . Definitely worth a watch .
Pretty effective little Canadian thriller .	The Silent Partner starts a few days before Christmas where Miles Cullen ( Elliot Gould ) is head vault teller for the ' First Bank of Toronto ' , he's an ordinary guy who fancies his co-worker Julie ( Susannah York ) but she's already having an affair with the bank manager . One day Miles life changes when he realises a career criminal named Harry Reikle ( Christopher Plummer ) is going to rob the bank dressed as Santa Claus , his first attempt is foiled by a young boy & it's at that point Miles decides to turn the situation to his own advantage . Miles puts 1000's of dollars from the bank in his bag & waits for Harry to come back which he does , he does indeed try to rob the bank , Miles gives him a few hundred & blames the other missing 1000's that he has stolen himself on Harry . It's a clever plan if not for the fact Harry figures out what Miles did & he wants his money but neither can go to the police , it becomes a game of cat & mouse as each man tries to gain the upper hand with $48 , 350 at stake . . . This Canadian production was directed Daryl Duke is a really smart thriller that most people probably will never even have heard of which is a shame because it's a great film . The intelligent script by Curtis Hanson was based on the book ' Think of a Number ' by Anders Bodelsen takes itself very seriously & is a neat well crafted little crime thriller with an intriguing concept which hooks you & isn't too predictable , it moves along at a nice pace , it has some great scenes especially between Gould & Plummer & it even has a cool twist ending . The Silent Partner is a pretty exposition heavy film & therefore there isn't much on screen action so those with little in the way of patience may want to skip it , for those who do like a good story driven crime thriller this is definitely a film you should check out because I'm pretty sure you'll like it . The character's are very good as is the dialogue although there are a couple of times when Plummer's villainous Reikle disappears from the film for a bit especially when he gets thrown in jail & when he does it becomes dullsville with a fair amount of character development which is fine but before long you'll want Plummer back again stirring things up as that's when the film is at it's best & most entertaining . Director Duke does OK , it looks as if The Silent Partner didn't have a huge budget as it's a fairly standard looking film without much style . I would imagine that this was a hard film to sell to the public at it's time of release , despite being a great film it has a very bland sounding title , it has no big action scenes so making a theatrical trailer which would excite people was almost impossible & they couldn't give much of the story away because it would have spoilt the twists & turns so I would guess that's probably why it's not a commonly known film . There are some nice tense scenes in this & some creepy ones when Plummer is around . There is some violence & a bit of nudity but nothing excessive . Technically the film is alright , it's well made I suppose but nothing special although having said that this is a film which relies on strong storytelling rather than flashy & expensive action set-pieces although there are continuity problems at the end as Plummer is shot in the back as the bullet wound starts in the center , then disappears altogether for a couple of shots then reappears slightly to the left ! Apparently this was shot at the Eaton Centre in Toronto in Canada which had only just been built . The cast is excellent & there's even a small early role for John Candy who is not as fat here as in his latter films , sure he's still fat but not as fat . The Silent Partner is one of those hidden gems that virtually nobody has heard of or would ever particularly consider watching but for good word of mouth , personally I think it's well worth watching .
Very enjoyable comic book hero adaptation thing .	Hellboy starts in 1944 off the coast of Scotland where some evil Nazi's are conducting experiments in the black arts to try & tip the war in the favour of Hitler , with the help of Grigori Rasputin ( Karel Roden ) who tries to open a portal way to hell in order to unleash demons from another dimension . However Professor Trevor ' Broom ' Bruttenholm ( John Hurt ) & allied forces manage to stop them but not before a small red boy like creature enters our world through the portal , this small red creature grows up to become Hellboy ( Ron Pearlman ) who now works for the US Government in a secret organisation called the Bureau for Paranormal Research & Defense who monitor & combat supernatural & demonic threats to the Earth . Upon investigating a monster at a museum the team find out that Grigori is back & intends to destroy the world by reopening the portal & finishing what he started in 1944 . . . Written & directed by Guillermo del Toro one has to say I think Hellboy is easily one of the , if not the best comic book adaptation of the recent CGI computer effects stuffed years . First of all Hellboy is one of those frustrating films which is available in it's original theatrical version & a ' director's cut ' , now I know Hellboy wasn't the first & won't be the last but I am sick of Hollywood studios treating us film fans like idiots & trying to milk as much money out of us as possible . Why two different versions ? The director's cut only adds 10 minutes to a film which lasts over two hours anyway so the differences aren't likely to be significant , it just annoys me that studios are so cynical in knowing that the fans want the best version & will probably end up buying both & the studio ends up making more money from us , true film fans . Anyway , rant over . The character of Hellboy originally appeared in a series of Dark Horse graphic novel books & was created by Mike Mingola , with the success of other comic book adaptations like Spider-Man ( 2002 ) in particular the powers that be decided to make a Hellboy film & a fine film it is too . Even though it lasts for two hours it didn't feel that long , it moves along at a really good pace & your never too far away from a monster , a fight , an explosion or some other action set-piece . Also another factor which makes Hellboy work so well is that it's fun , it doesn't take itself too seriously & it just wants to entertain you which as far as I'm concerned it did in style . The character's are surprisingly good , Hellboy himself is pretty likable although one has to say beyond all the flashy effects , the action & the unique central character there's not that much else here , there certainly isn't much of a story to get involved in . Keep watching after the end credits start , once the big orange ones finish we discover that the makers hadn't forget Manning after all , it doesn't really say what happens to him but at least he gets a mention . Director del Toro made Hellboy straight after another comic book flick Balde II ( 2002 ) which is actually a better film than Hellboy because it's darker & has more of a story . Here del Toro was obviously under instruction to turn in a PG rated family film & therefore it's relatively restrained in the violence department . I will say that the film looks gorgeous though , the wonderful high tech sets of the bureau to the dark & dirty New York sewer system to the wonderful looking Gothic castles when the film switches to Russia to the costumes & in particular the Nazi assassin Kroenen with his sleek black metal mask & blades which shoot out of his sleeves . Hellboy looks fabulous in more ways than one because Hellboy the film looks great as does Hellboy the character brought to life by Rick Baker & his team as they applied the make-up to Pearlman which took fours hours everyday . The CGI computer effects also look brilliant , when done poorly CGI effects look awful but when done properly they are simply amazing & Hellboy is a good case in point , from monsters with swaying tentacles to explosions the CGI is top notch . With a supposed budget of about $66 , 000 , 000 Hellboy's budget was probably kept down due to the fact there weren't any really big stars in it demanding a $10 , 000 , 000 plus pay-cheque , I'd imagine most of that money actually ended up on screen & it shows because Hellboy does look the business . Surprisingly shot in Prague in the Czech Republic although actually set in America , Russia & Scotland . The acting is good but most of the human cast are given little to do , Pearlman steals the show here . Hellboy is a really fun , action & CGI computer effects packed comic book hero adaptation which in my humble opinion is maybe the best of the recent superhero films & better than Spider-Man at any rate . A must for fantasy film fans & fans of the graphic novels , very enjoyable on a big dumb loud noisy fun type of level . Look out for the forthcoming sequel Hellboy II : The Golden Army ( 2008 ) .
" If we do that , we'll get more sick crap . " Almost brilliant Japanese horror .	Shiryo No Wana , or Evil Dead Trap as it's more commonly known amongst Western audiences , starts at a Japanese cable TV station called Network 3 where extreme reality TV hostess Nami Tsuchiya ( Miyuki Ono ) receives a videotape in a parcel from a viewer . Nami plays the tape & discovers that it shows the brutal assault & murder of a young woman , thinking she may be onto a big story Nami gets permission from her boss ( Shinsuke Shimada ) to investigate the origins of the tape . The tape helpfully contained footage of how to get to the location it was shot in so with a few volunteers , a sound engineer Masako Abe ( Aya Katsuragi ) , make-up artist Rei Sugiura ( Hitomi Kobayashi ) , script writer Rya Kawamura ( Eriko Nakagawa ) & assistant director Akio Kondou ( Masahiko Abe ) Nami sets out to find her story . The location turns out to be an abandoned military facility , as they split up & search for clues Rei is brutally murdered . It's not long before the rest of the group discover Rei's fate & realise they are next ! A sicko game playing killer stalks the dark damp corridors . . . This Japanese production was directed by Toshiharu Ikeda & is a bit uneven . The script by Takashi Ishii starts brilliantly , the opening mystery surrounding the snuff tape , the location & who's behind it is very effective & gripping as it builds . Unfortunately it cannot maintain this as Shiryo No Wana descends into complete lunacy with one of the silliest , lamest & most unsatisfying climax's ever . I was hoping for more but the last thirty minutes really let all of it's good work to that point down . It's also one of those films that never knows when to quit , just when you think that's it something else totally ridiculous happens . The character's are OK except for Nami , I mean there is some unidentified psycho running around an old abandoned military base & this smartly dressed mysterious guy ( Yuji Honma ) just happens to be there without any sort of reasonable explanation , seems to turn up just after a murder occurs & seems very relaxed when he finds a severed head . Would you not be even a little bit suspicious of him ? I think I would . The film rapidly goes downhill as it progresses . Shiryo No Wana drags a little in places but there are some nice ideas here & it's certainly watchable especially when compared to the unoriginal teenage American stuff being churned out on a conveyor belt . Director Ikeda likes nice long shots which I do too , no ultra fast quick blink & you'll miss it editing here . He likes to place his camera above people looking down on them & their surroundings as well , the tension & atmosphere through the first two thirds of the film is excellent but that stupid ending really kills everything dead . The gore scenes are spread out but are very effective & quite brutal , the opening murder of the victim in the snuff tape is nasty with her eyeball being pierced with a knife in extreme close-up & from varying angles as liquid oozes out , ouch is all I can say ! Someone is impaled on metal spikes , various stabbings , a severed head & another nasty bit when someone gets a huge blade implanted in the side of their head . There is also a fairly graphic & wholly unnecessary rape sequence . Technically Shiryo No Wana is OK if basic & somewhat economical . Did anyone else think the music ripped off Day of the Dead ( 1985 ) ? I haven't got a clue about the acting as I can't speak Japanese but it seems alright , the UK DVD which I have has a few dumb grammatical errors in the subtitling including spelling mistakes , duh ! Shiryo No Wana is a decent watch , it plays like a Japanese Friday the 13th ( 1980 ) type slasher that tries to be clever with it's ending . I liked it & it's memorable but not entirely satisfying , however it's still worth a watch .
Nostalgic reunion documentary	Return to Devil's End runs for just under an hour & is a reunion documentary featuring some of the cast & crew from the five part Doctor Who story The Dæmons ( 1971 ) that is set in & around the small English town of Aldbourne in Wiltshire where The Dæmons was filmed some twenty years prior . It features the Doctor himself Jon Pertwee , John Levene who played Sgt . Benton , Nicholas Courtney who played Brigadier Lethbridge-Stewart & Richard Franklin who played Captain Yates as well as the director of The Dæmons Christopher Barry . They chip with memories which aren't exactly staggering but one has to remember that The Dæmons was made over a very short time twenty plus years before Return to Devil's End was made , hell I can barely remember what I did twenty days ago ! I have only just finished watching The Dæmons again & it's a great story , I think they visit just about every location used in the story ( right down to the road junction where the Devil's End signpost spins round ) although to be honest they aren't that different & it's not that exciting seeing an empty field or a plain looking village green . The anecdote's are kept to a minimum & again I just think it's down to the amount of time that had passed , Barry recalls how they were behind schedule & had to work on a weekend either the Saturday or Sunday with Pertwee insisting it was the Saturday because he had something else lined up for the Sunday which meant Barry had to miss his sisters wedding . Barry also says that it snowed at one point & they couldn't film because of it . Other than that there's plenty of fond recollection I suppose but little hard facts . It's nice to hear the participants views , recollections & opinions on The Dæmons especially Pertwee's observation that the story worked so well because of the atmosphere & story rather than trying to show men in rubber suit monsters off at every opportunity which is exactly how I feel about the story myself . . . Great minds think alike I suppose ! Despite a bit of repetition it's still a good solid documentary , to hear & see the cast in the original locations reminisce about their time making The Dæmons is nice & certainly worth an hour of any Doctor Who fan . I'm not sure how easy it is to track Retrurn to Devil's End down or how widely distributed it was , I doubt that it will be on the eventual The Dæmons DVD since it's not a BBC production which also leads to the fact that there are no clips from The Dæmons since it is copyrighted BBC material although there is some interesting 8mm home movie footage taken by a villager while the cast & crew were there shooting . Return to Devil's End is a nice companion piece to The Dæmons & it would be nice if it turned up on the DVD but I doubt it will happen . Worth watching if your a fan of the series but otherwise it would be of limited appeal & interest to more casual viewers as they probably won't find much here to interest them & I recommend you take the time to track down & see The Dæmons itself instead .
A truly modern take on the Vampire legend .	Martin is set in the town of Braddock in Pennsylvania where autistic teenager Martin Madahas ( John Amplas ) is staying with his strict superstitious uncle Tada Cuda ( Lincoln Maazel ) & his grand daughter Christina ( Christine Forrest ) . Uncle Cuda is convinced that Martin is a Vampire , he has strong religious belief's that make him believe Martin in an 84 year old Vampire because of an ancient family curse . Martin tries to tell his uncle otherwise & convince him that he is not a Vampire but Martin often has the urge to go out , stalk & pick a woman who he then drugs & drinks the blood of . As he meets & befriends other people Martin has a harder time hiding his gruesome secret . . . Written & directed by George A . Romero who also has a small role in the film as a priest Martin was made between his most famous film Night of the Living Dead ( 1968 ) & in my opinion his best Dawn of the Dead ( 1978 ) & was fairly early on in his career , judging by Romero's early films such as Martin you can see why he gained such a reputation in the horror genre since his films always seemed to be relevant , feel fresh & original , have strong ideas & themes about life & society & be damned fine horror films in their own right . I'm not quite sure where it all went wrong for Romero but that's a different story for another time . Martin is often a fascinating film for a variety of reasons , the way that it approaches Vampirism in a very factual way & setting & the issues it raises about forcing one own belief's onto other's since it's entirely plausible Martin kills & drinks blood purely because his family had told him all of his life that he does . Martin is as much a drama as anything else , the way Martin copes in the real world , the way he copes with his extremist uncle , sexual repression & the way he befriends other's , I especially like the way Martin has to call a radio phone-in show to talk about his problems which is just such a modern & easy phenomenon . The film never definitely says whether Martin is a real Vampire or not , it's left up in the air for the audience to decide & strong arguments could be made for both . The pace is sometimes slow but it's never less than gripping & the story , character's & dialogue really draw you in . A complex film with no straight answers that lets you make up your own mind , surely one of Romero's best & one of the starkest modern day Vampire films ever made . The film was shot in & around the real town of Braddock & it looks as if Romero just said that location looks good , set-up his camera & shot the scene . Set largely within a deprived neighbourhood the film has a gritty sometimes ugly look about it which all adds to atmosphere or hopelessness & banality . There are many documentary style scenes of everyday life just going on around the story which gave me a real sense of Martin happening in the real world . Apparently the original cut of Martin was over two & a half hours long & that version now no longer exists , Romero wanted to shoot the film entirely in black and white but the producers baulked at that , the Cuda house in the film belonged to sound man Tony Buba , the film was originally to have extensive narration but that idea was ditched after the films story & narrative stood-up in it's own right & I love the story that Cuda was named so because the sign next to the shop used in the film said ' The Cuda Co . ' whereas in the original script the character was called Tata Voda . With a meagre budget of about $80 , 000 Martin was low budget but it's well made with some memorable scenes especially the opening murder of a woman on a train . There's a bit of gore including slashed arms & a broken branch stuck into someone's throat . There's some full frontal nudity too . The acting is pretty good especially from star Amplas . Martin is not a film for everyone , it's not a film everyone will get or appreciate but if your in the right mood & want something that might make you think & is a refreshing take on the Vampire legend then Martin might be the film for you . A great film for many different reasons .
Effective H . P . Lovcraft adaptation .	The Resurrected starts as Claire Ward ( Jane Sibbett ) contacts private investigator John March ( John Terry , no not the England & Chelsea football player & captain ! ) in regard to her husband Charles Ward ( Chris Sarandon ) who suddenly moved out of their house & into an old abandoned building to continue his mysterious experiments , he has also recently been in trouble with the local police for importing the remains of human skeletons . Claire wants to know what he's up to & John accepts the case , his investigations lead him to believe that something sinister is going on under the house where he makes a shocking discovery as the truth is finally revealed . . . Directed by Dan O'Bannon & based on the story ' The Case of Charles Dexter Ward ' by H . P . Lovecraft which I admit I have not read so I cannot compare the two this is actually a bit of a hidden gem that I would imagine many may have overlooked or quite simply never heard of before which is a shame & advocates what a good advertising campaign can do . The script by Brent V . Friedman has a 40's noir detective thriller feel about it as John narrates large parts of the story & lets us , the viewer , into his private thoughts & feelings as he digs deeper & deeper & uncovers some scary stuff . Then there's the horror element of the plot which isn't overplayed & developed as a mystery which isn't fully revealed until the end , while this makes for an intriguing film that has a certain hook I felt The Resurrected spent maybe a little too long building things up & even though I wouldn't want the film to reveal itself too early on there might have been a few more clues & a bit more action . However I still thought The Resurrected was a nice surprise , the character's are very good as is the dialogue , it's a bit slow but it's definitely gripping , there's some really nice horror scenes here & in a world where every horror film seems to a clone of another it's nice to have a story driven & original genre flick that's just that bit different & because it was that bit different that's the reason it was almost certainly overlooked & / or forgotten about . A surprisingly neat little horror film that deserves better treatment that it got . Director O'Bannon whose only other directorial credit is The Return of the Living Dead ( 1985 ) & probably better know for his big budget Hollywood screenplays for films such as Alien ( 1979 ) & Total Recall ( 1990 ) does a good job here on this , there is definitely some creepy imagery in this especially towards the end in the dark dank catacombs . Apparently O'Bannon has said on record that The Resurrected was ruined during the editing stage so maybe this version isn't quite what he had originally intended . Gore wise there isn't much on show , there's a melted corpse , there are some bones , a decapitation & various mutated creatures which look pretty gross . There are also some ambitious special effects in The Resurrected including a fairly impressive Jason and the Argonauts ( 1963 ) style stop motion skeleton & some dated looking optical light effects . Technically the film is fine with good production values & some decent special effects , it's well made & was shot in Vancouver in Canada even though it is meant to be set in Providence which was where H . P . Lovecraft was born & raised . The acting is good throughout by all involved although Sarandon overacts a bit at the end . The Resurrected is a neat horror mystery type film which I actually really rather liked , perhaps it spends a bit too much time on heavy exposition but it's pretty interesting & has decent entertainment value . Definitely well worth a watch for any horror fans out there , if you can even find a copy . . .
" If you don't like your ideas , stop having them . " Good horror .	Ginger Snaps is set in the small Canadian town of Bailey Downs in which a spate of gruesome attacks have left the local townsfolk dogs dead & torn to pieces . Sisters Brigitte ( Emily Perkins ) & Ginger Fitzgerald ( Katherine Isabelle ) are outsiders , they act & dress weird as everyone at their school think nothing of making fun of them especially resident bully Trina ( Danielle Hampton ) who mercilessly taunts them . While out one night Ginger is attacked & wounded by what appears to be a Werewolf which is killed when local drug dealer Sam ( Kris Lemche ) hits it while driving his van . Brigitte starts to notice a personality change in Ginger , she becomes aggressive , sexually active & also a physical change occurs as Ginger starts to grow hair on her body & a tail starts to emerge out of her backside . As Ginger's bizarre behaviour turns to murder it's up to Brigitte & Sam to try & discover a cure for Ginger before she transforms completely . . . This Canadian American co-production was directed by John Fawcett & is a pretty good horror film although I don't rate it as highly as some . The script by Karen Walton takes itself extremely seriously & is a Werewolf story mixed with a teenage drama as Ginger Snaps ( a title which makes no sense to me ) is as much about the growing pains of teenage girls , relationships , peer pressure & the emotional turmoil of periods . This is all fine , don't get me wrong as I like character development as much as the next guy but I couldn't help but find some of this stuff just a tinsy winsy bit dull & I was sitting there waiting for the action to kick in , which to be fair it eventually does . The upside of this approach is that you care & feel for the character's while the downside is that you may become bored . Director Fawcett keeps things simple yet effective & Ginger Snaps has a nice enough look to it . The special effects are entirely physical like puppets rather than CGI & they look OK , some of them look a bit rubbery particularly the transformation scene but the Werewolf looks pretty cool at the end & there's no way I would describe them as bad . The gore isn't anything to get excited over , a few mutilated dogs , an exploding Werewolf , a couple of severed fingers & lots of fake blood splashed everywhere but little in the way of graphic gore . With a supposed budget of about $5 , 000 , 000 Ginger Snaps had a pretty decent budget which I must admit I couldn't really see on screen , there's no big name actors , no exotic locations , action scenes , CGI effects & minimal Werewolf action so where did the money go ? The acting was strong by everyone which helps you get into the film & become absorbed by it . A special mention goes to Mimi Rogers who is hilarious as Ginger & Brigitee's Mother . I liked Ginger Snaps as it's a very well written & thought out film but at the end of the day I couldn't stop thinking to myself that I'd wish they'd hurry up & bring the Werewolves on . Followed by a sequel Ginger Snaps : Unleashed ( 2004 ) & a prequel Ginger Snaps Back : The Beginning ( 2004 ) which were filmed back-to-back .
I rather liked it actually .	The Legend of Hell House starts as ageing millionaire Rudolph Deutsch ( Roland Culver ) hires a physicist named Lionel Barrett ( Clive Revill ) to investigate the spooky goings on in the notorious Belasco mansion dubbed by many Hell House in an attempt to prove the existence of an after life since he'll be there soon , Deutsch also hires a couple of spiritual mediums named Florence Tanner ( Pamela Franklin ) & Benjamin Franklin Fischer ( Roddy McDowall ) the only survivor of the previous expedition into the house several years prior . Deutsch will pay each of them £100 , 000 if they can prove the existence of the after life so they get right on with the job at hand & judging by the first 24 hours they spend there proving the existence of ghosts & spirits isn't going to be a problem , what might be a problem though is the fact that might not live to collect their cash . . . This British production was directed by John Hough & I have to admit that I rather liked it , I didn't think I would because I'm not a big fan of the haunted house genre , I don't even like The Haunting ( 1963 ) that much , but The Legend of Hell House impressed me . The script by Richard Matheson was based on his own novel ' Hell House ' & takes itself very seriously which just about works & it's more than just a clone of House on Haunted Hill ( 1959 ) or The Haunting which it bears more than a passing resemblance to , it moves along like a rocket with all the main character's introduced , who they are & what they do & inside Hell House ready for action within the first ten minutes & while that might seem rushed it's done very well . Spooky things start to happen straight away as the house begins to affect it's new tenant's in different ways with some nice set pieces which are thankfully more imaginative than just a door opening & closing on it's own or a light switching on & off . I also liked the minimalist dialogue here & they way the film is broken up into segments as there are constant captions which tell us the date & time even if it's an hour or so since the last one , it actually fees like a scientist's note book with the entries of all the major incidents in chronological order timed & documented precisely & nothing else is of any importance . The character's are standard for this type of film with the scientist who has a logical explanation for everything & the spiritualists who believe in the supernatural , the dialogue between them is good as they argue the point with pretty reasonable arguments on both sides . The ending is pretty good as well even if it's a bit silly , overall I really liked this film although I could see why many might not . Director Hough does a great job here & the film looks fantastic with wonderful sets & a terrific English stately home as it's primary location , it was actually Wykehurst Park House in East Sussex that was used as the constant fog enshrouded exterior . There's a great atmosphere throughout , it's not that scary but it's sort of eerie at times . The film has a real style to it with some gorgeous cinematography , colour & use of light & shadow , this is a great looking film throughout . There's not much blood or gore , there's a dead cat in a shower , someones back is scratched , a chandelier falls on someone & there's a bit of blood but nothing excessive . Technically the film is top notch & probably had a fair amount of money behind it , it has high production values , a creepy musical score & is very well made . The acting is very good from a small cast . The Legend of Hell House may not be for everyone but I liked it a lot , I thought it was very well made with good acting & a spooky atmosphere which is a lot more than can be said for many haunted house horror flicks out there . Personally I think it's well worth a watch especially for those who have a particular interest in the horror genre .
Good comedy horror thriller type thing .	Dead End starts on Christmas Eve with Frank Harrington ( Ray Wise ) driving to his in-laws with his wife Laura ( Lin Shaye ) their son Richard ( Mick Cain ) plus their daughter Marion ( Alexandra Holden ) & her boyfriend Brad ( Billy Asher ) , for a change Frank decides to take a back road in the middle of nowhere rather than stick to the interstate like he has for the past 20 years . Frank falls asleep for a few seconds & almost hits another car , although a bit shaken they are all fine . Looking out of the window Richard sees a woman in white ( Amber Smith ) holding a baby whom seems in shock , the Harrington's give her a lift to a wood cabin they passed . Once there they stupidly split up & both the woman in white & Brad disappear the only clue being Marion spotting him in the back of a black hearse , as they try to reach help they discover his mutilated body further down the road . From this point on they're seemingly innocent journey becomes a nightmarish bid for survival . . . This French American co-production was written & directed by Jean-Baptiste Andrea & Fabrice Canepa & is probably one of those films that you will either love or hate , I doubt many will sit on the fence in regard to Dead End . I personally thought it was far from perfect but I really rather liked it . The script relies totally on it's twist ending & everything that goes on before is simply to set it up , twist endings are in vogue at the moment with the likes of The Sixth Sense ( 1999 ) & Fight Club ( 1999 ) showing just how effective they can be when done properly . The twist in Dead End works to an extent & when you think about it it makes sense but I did find it a bit lacklustre & it tries to explain everything in the space of three minutes ( keep watching after the end credits start as they cut out after a minute or so & there's a bit more of the film to play ) & I was sort of hoping for something a little more in-depth & clever but as I said it still works well . On the negative side my interest did start to wain as most of Dead End is just the Harrington's driving around in the dark & I must admit it began to get repetitive after a straight hour & twenty minutes of it ! I found all the character's quite likable which helps & I found the dialogue pretty funny at times with some of the petty arguments & sarcastic comments they aim at each other quite amusing at times although once again you will either like the type of humour in Dead End or you won't . French directors Baptiste Andrea & Canepa do a good job & the film is pretty stylish although there's only so much you can do with a few people driving along a road & that's what most of Dead End consists of . There's a great air of mystery which I loved & it has a creepy atmosphere to it ( until the twist ending ) . Forget about blood or gore , there's a burned arm , someone with their brains exposed & someone has their bottom lip bitten off but that's it . Technically Dead End is good & has a nice professional polish to it , it doesn't look particularly low budget even if it is just people driving around in the dark . The acting was good & I found everyone pretty easy to like , Holden is really cute & a fine looking young lady . Dead End certainly isn't for everyone that's for sure but I have to say I liked it , it could have used a bit more variety & a bit more gore but I still liked it . Definitely worth a watch for horror & film fans in general who are perhaps after something a bit quirky & a bit different .
Solid serial killer thriller .	Manhunter starts with FBI agent Jack Crawford ( Dennis Farina ) trying to persuade friend & former psychological profiler Will Graham ( William Petersen ) to come out of retirement & help him catch a brutal serial killer known as ' The Tooth Fairy ' ( Tom Noonan ) who has slaughtered two entire families already . After a few psychological tricks & emotional blackmail Graham agrees , leaving his wife Molly ( Kim Greist ) & young son Kevin ( David Seaman ) behind Graham travels to Atlanta & the scene of the Leeds family murders . As Graham walks around the Leeds house he begins to get a feel for the killer & his motives but he still has little to go on except that both killings were committed on a full moon & the next one is fast approaching . He still needs help so Graham decides to visit notorious serial killer Dr . Hannibal Lecktor ( Brian Cox ) & ask for his help but doesn't get anything out of him . Then Lecktor's prison Doctor , Frederick Chilton ( Benjamin Hendrickson ) discovers a note in Lecktor's cell from the ' Tooth Fairy ' . Graham quickly figures out that Lecktor & the ' Tooth fairy ' have been communicating with each other by use of a secret code placed in a newspaper advert . Once the FBI have broke the code they find it tells the ' Tooth Fairy ' the location of Graham's wife & son , he becomes even more drawn into the case as he desperately tries to unmask the identity of the ' Tooth Fairy ' & save both his family & sanity . . . Written & directed by Michael Mann I thought Manhunter was a good film but not a brilliant one . The script by Mann based on the novel ' Red Dragon ' by Thomas Harris is slow burning & concentrates on characters rather than action . The bulk of Manhunter is made up of Graham's attempts to capture the ' Tooth Fairy ' rather than showing lots of killings , in fact only two people are actually killed on screen & you can guess who one of those are . Forget about seeing Hannibal Lecktor either , he gets a cameo which amounts to less than five minutes & that's it . Not much background is given to any character as Manhunter likes to deal with the here & now rather than the past , having said that the characters are well fleshed out & you care for them which is essential for a film such as this . Manhunter is a good film that has a gripping storyline , is basically well made & is quite absorbing but was a bit too slow for my tastes & thinking back to it now ( I just finished watching it an hour or so ago ) nothing sticks in my mind & not that much really happened when all said & done . Forget about any gore or violence as there isn't any , a few gunshot wounds is your lot I'm afraid . The acting is one of Manhunter's strongest points with great performances all over the place from Cox as Lecktor to Petersen as Graham . Technically Manhunter felt bland & unremarkable except for a cool shot when the sun was setting producing a visually great looking backdrop for one scene . I'm not sure about the use of music & songs either , a couple of the songs in Manhunter seemed really out of place & actually annoyed me . So that's it I suppose , there's nothing really wrong with Manhunter as it tells a good solid story but at the same time didn't do anything spectacular or impress me that much . Definitely worth a watch but I much prefer The Silence of the Lambs ( 1991 ) to Manhunter in every regard .
" This may appeal to your lurid taste in fiction Watson . " Fine adaptation of Holmes most famous case .	The Hound of the Baskervilles starts late one night at ' Baskerville Hall ' as Sir Charles Baskerville ( Raymond Adamson ) waits outside in his gardens , suddenly he hears a chilling howl coming from the moors . . . Dr . Mortimer ( Neil Duncan ) contacts contacts Sherlock Holmes ( Jeremy Brett ) & his assistant Dr . John Watson ( Edward Hardwicke ) & tells them of Sir Charles untimely death which he feels is suspicious , he talks about a 200 year old legend about a huge demonic hound that has terrorised the Baskerville family & that paw prints were found near Sir Charles body . Dr . Mortimer also says that the last remaining Baskerville Sir Henry ( Kristoffer Tabori ) is travelling from America to claim his inheritance . Upon arrival Sir Henry receives a threatening letter telling him to stay away from Baskerville Hall which he ignores & together with Dr . Watson & Dr . Mortimer travels to Devon & settle into Baskerville Hall . The list of suspects is long with the servants Mr . ( Ronald Pickup ) & Mrs . Barrymore ( Rosemary McHale ) acting strangely & the escaped murderer Selden ( William Ilkley ) running around the moors . . . Made for British TV by Granada & directed by Brian Mills this adaptation of The Hound of the Baskervilles is the second version of this classic tale I have seen this year & both were almost exactly the same . The script by T . R . Bowen based on the novel by Arthur Conan Doyle retains all the basic story elements , it moves along at a nice pace & is involving although if you know anything about the well told tale then nothing here will come as a surprise which isn't a problem with this version in itself it's just that there are so many versions around which I would imagine don't differ that much . Holmes takes a back seat for a large chunk of the film & I thought the ending was somewhat underwhelming & felt a little rushed which was probably down to it's budget & tight TV shooting schedule . The film was obviously shot on location & you couldn't ask for more of the British countryside & the manor house used . The budget probably wasn't as high as the other one I saw as it looks a little basic at times , there is no extravagant production design & everything is kept quite simple yet still maintains it's effectiveness . The Hound itself has a silly green glowing special effect to it & isn't really in the film that much . The acting is strong throughout but I'm not sure about Brett as Holmes , don't really know why but I didn't like him that much . Overall it's a good solid engaging adaptation of what now must surely be a story told far too often as once you've seen one of them there isn't much interest in seeing any other . If you have never seen a Hound of the Baskervilles before than I can easily recommend this one but if you have I can't see the point in sitting through this . Good for Holmes virgins & completest's but old hat if your familiar with the story .
A nasty little film .	The opening sequence is set in the middle of some forest somewhere , the local witch finder known as Albino ( Reggie Nalder ) lies in wait . They ambush a waggon full of nuns , they force it off the road and attack the passengers . We then cut to a town square , a large crowd of people have gathered to witness the torture and execution of the unfortunate people from the waggon . A man has his hand cut off and is coated in feathers , while two women are lowered alive into a huge fire , setting them alight . These are the brutal ways of Albino and his gang of witch hunters . As witchcraft has spiralled out of control Count Cumberland ( Herbert Lom ) and Count Christian Von Meruh ( Udo Kier ) are sent to the area to try and bring some order and check the local witch finders methods . The film thereafter is really just a collection of fairly brutal torture scenes , we see various accused have their thumbs crushed with thumb screws , branded , whipped , beaten , forced to sit on a chair of nails , their tongues ripped out , burned alive , beheaded and various other forms of torture , whats not to like ? ! These scenes are presented in a simple way , their there to shock . The film doesn't try to glamorize them , there brutal acts of torture and are presented that way . Directed by Micheal Armstrong , this is a pretty good horror film . The script certainly fleshes out the characters nicely , the Albino character is shown as a total monster , raping , torturing , making up false charges , murdering , and enjoying the benefits like power and money . Lord Cumberland is basically the same , however he justifies what he's doing in the name god , and seems to believe it . Christian is a young man , learning his trade from Cumberland , he falls for a falsely accused woman from the village , Vanessa ( a sexy Olivera Vuco ) . She manages to plant doubt in his mind about his and Cumberland's brutal ways . Corruption is also explored , and how various individuals could gain from having someone accused of witchcraft and basically murdered , technically within the law at the time . A nicely paced mix of brutal torture / action and plot / character development . The film also seems to have very good production values , great authentic looking period costumes and locations , the music's quite appropriate sounding too . Acting wise , Herbert Lom steals the show as Lord Cumberland . If you can make it through the torture , rape and sex then you should be rewarded with a good little film . I liked it .
" Don't drink and bake . " Solid 80's Arnie ' one man army ' action thriller .	Raw Deal is set in Chicago & starts as a team of men hired by mob boss Lou Patrovita ( Sam Wanamaker ) storms an FBI witness protection hideout , they kill an informant named Marcellino ( Mordecai Lawner ) & all the FBI agents there to protect him including rookie agent Blair Shannon ( Steve Holt ) . High ranking FBI agent Harry Shannon ( Darren McGavin ) wants revenge for the death of his son & turns to disgraced ex-FBI agent Mark Kaminsky ( Arnold Schwarzenegger ) who is working as a small town Sheriff , Harry ask's Mark to get inside Patrovita's organisation & bring it down paying close attention to the person who set the hit on his son up . Mark agrees & sets about infiltrating the gang & bringing it down by killing as many people as he can . . . Directed by John Irvin this fairly early Schwarzenegger action flick in my opinion is actually a lot of fun when viewed today , I certainly think 80's overblown action film fans like myself will enjoy it . The script by Gary DeVore & Norman Wexler has all the right ingredients , cheesy one-liners , bad dialogue with copious amounts of swearing as tough guy's try to sound hard , lots of bad guy's in suits , drug dealing , mob bosses , a gang war , a pretty blonde love interest & of course plenty of fights , shoot-outs , action set-pieces & a huge body count . The story itself isn't anything brilliant or original but it serves it's purpose well enough , it's a fairly economical way to pit a load of bad guy's with big guns against Schwarzenegger who has even bigger guns & a much , much better aim . The character's are a little cold & one dimensional , the dialogue is often funny for the wrong reasons & it's all very improbable but it's a fun way to pass the time . I liked it & while it's not Arnie's best that's still better than most ! There's a reasonable amount of action here , an exploding petrol dump , a cool chase at the start as Arnie tries to catch a fake cop on a bike & there are plenty of fights & gun-play . The scene at the end set at the gravel pit with Arnie driving around shooting everyone to the sounds of ' Satisfaction ' on the radio are great , period . The film is very violent with a large body count & whenever anyone gets shot there's lots of blood . Having said that all the bad guy's in Raw Deal have terrible aims & couldn't hit a barn door with a banjo ! There's even a the obligatory ' tooling up ' scene as Arnie checks all his guns & loads them up complete with over exaggerated sound effects . Production wise the film is well made although it's not going to win any awards for style , I would think the full widescreen 2 : 35 : 1 versions of this would be a noticeable improvement on the pan and scan editions . The acting isn't up to much , Arnie is very wooden in this I must say while it's left to intense character actor Robert Davi to bring a bit of class to the thing . Raw Deal is a fine 80's action thriller & one of Arnie's most overlooked films , it's not up there with his best but it's still good solid entertainment & lots of violent fun . Also remember boys & girls to take Arnie's advice to never drink alcohol & bake cakes at the same time as it could all end in tears . . .
Enjoyable murder mystery horror film .	The film opens at a pool side party . A young couple decide to have sex on a sun bed , while they go about their business someone steals the boys mickey mouse mask and shirt . He puts the shirt and mask on . He starts to dance with a girl who is also wearing a mickey mouse mask . The girl , thinking he is the boy who is currently having sex , takes him back to her apartment . There they get straight down to it and head for the bedroom . As he undresses her she takes his mask off . Not only is it not who she expects it to be , but the guys face is horribly disfigured , maybe burned . She screams and pushes him away . He grabs a pair of scissors on a nearby dressing table and stabs her in the stomach , repeatedly . The film cuts to a shot of her face , with blood around her mouth , then the title ' Bloody moon ' appears . Next we see a taxi pull up outside a mental hospital . Out steps Manuela ( Nadja Gerganoff , whom I found myself strangely attracted too ) . Inside she is told by a Doctor ( a cameo by director Jesus Franco ) that he is releasing her brother Miguel ( Alexander Waechter ) to her care . Miguel turns out to be the guy from the opening sequence who stabbed the girl . They both travel back home , to a large Spanish Villa owned by their aunt , who also owns the local all girl language school ran by Senor Alvaro ( Christopher Brugger ) . Angela ( the rather sexy Olivia Pascal ) arrives at the school . She is placed in apartment 13 , the apartment from the opening sequence . Soon after Angela is witness to her friend Eva ( Ann-Beate Engelke ) being murdered . However no one believes Angela because the body mysteriously disappears . As Angela runs around trying to convince people , more and more of her friends start to die . With a long list of suspects , Miguel , Senor Alvaro , Manuela , Antonio a guy who works at the school , and the local retarded odd job man can Angela stay alive long enough to solve the mystery and unmask the killer ? Watch it and find out ! Known under the title Bloody Moon to English audiences it was directed by Jesus Franco and this is definitely one of his better films , certainly no where near as boring and inept as most of his directorial output . At heart it's a slasher film , but the script by Rayo Casablanca throws in a few nice twists , and it should keep you trying to guess the identity of the killer until they are finally revealed , even if at times it doesn't make much sense , but then again this is a Jesus Franco film we're talking about . The film is quite violent at times with a pleasing amount of blood and gore . The murders are pretty cool even if the special effects are a little unconvincing . The best one being when a girl has her head cut off with a huge industrial saw . Having said that there is one sequence that seemed very unnecessary , a real snake is decapitated with a pair of garden shears , animal cruelty for the sake of it . Talking of special effects this film features perhaps the most fake looking boulder I've ever seen , it's obviously made out of polystyrene ! There's some gratuitous nudity in there too which always helps , if thats your thing . I really liked the bizarre Euro music on this too , it seemed to fit the film very well . Direction , acting and photography are all adequate if your used to Euro horror . I liked it quite a lot , it kept me entertained for 80 odd minutes anyway , worth a watch for Euro horror and slasher fans alike .
" For reference next time we're being stalked by a serial killer don't go in the basement . " I rather liked it .	Shredder starts on the snowy Idaho slopes of an abandoned ski lodge named Rocky Summit where a lone skier named Chad ( Elliot Olson ) is happily skiing along waiting for his friends & minding his own business when he is virtually decapitated by a wire strung across two trees . . . Kimberly Van Arx ( Lindsey McKeon ) & her boyfriend Cole Davidson ( Scott Weinger ) plus a few friends Skyler ( Billy O'Sullivan ) , Kirk ( Peter Riggs ) , Robyn ( Holly Towne ) & Pike ( Juleah Weikel ) plan on spending a fun weekend at the lodge as Kimberly's father is planning on buying it . On the way they meet a Europeon guy named Christophe ( Brad Hawkins ) who they also invite along . Once at the abandoned & isolated lodge they break in & set themselves up , soon after Sheriff Toney ( Seth Reston ) turns up but despite his & the local townspeople's warnings about the lodge's dark history the friends insist on staying . A decision that they may not live to regret as our psycho skier turns up with only one thing on their mind , murder . . . Co-written & directed by Greg Huson I really rather enjoyed Shredder . The script by Huson & Craig Carlson is at heart a cross between the standard Friday the 13th ( 1980 ) style slasher & the more modern Scream ( 1996 ) murder mystery whodunit that builds into a twist ending . One could say it sets itself simple goals which , in my opinion , it does a good job of achieving . It can drag in places but the climax is pretty pacey as the film tries to keep the killers identity a secret until the very last moment , when revealed it's a little unimaginative & obvious but works well enough in context with the rest of the film . Usually the teenage character's in these types of slasher films are as annoying as hell but in Shredder I though they were OK & the only one who got on my nerves was the irritating idiot with the camcorder Skyler . All in all I thought Shredder was a nice modern slasher film & a decent way to pass 85 odd minutes . It might have improved the film if the mystery elements had been played up & developed a little more , there are few suspects & there aren't many clues or red-herrings . Director Huson uses the nice snowy mountain scenery to good effect & Shredder is a really good looking film which surprised me . The murders could have been a bit more imaginative & a bit gorier , in fact when I think about it there should have been more of them too but maybe I'm being greedy . It's certainly not the goriest slasher out there but what's here will suffice , there's a really cool opening scene when someone is half decapitated with wire , someone has a ski pole shoved in their eye , someone is stabbed with an icicle , an axe in someones leg & the resultant gory DIY surgery to sew the wound together & a great bit when someone ends up going through a snow shredder . I have no idea what the budget was on Shredder but the film has a high budget look to it with some really nice cinematography , good production values & Shredder is well made throughout considering it went straight to video . The acting was OK & McKeon as Kimberly is hot . Shredder was a nice surprise , I was expecting another cheap low budget badly made straight to video slasher & it's to the filmmakers credit that after I had watched it I thought it looked far from that . I personally think it's well worth a watch & especially if your a slasher fan .
One of the better ' Films to Keep You Awake ' .	Películas Para no Dormir : Para Entrar a Vivir is set in Spain where Mario ( Adrià Collado ) & his pregnant girlfriend Clara ( Macarena Gómez ) need somewhere to live . Mario sees an advert for an apartment , it's 140 square foot , it has three bedrooms , two bathrooms & most importantly it's as cheap as chip's . Upon arrival things don't look too promising , the apartment block is on the outskirts of town in a very rundown area , the building is in a state of disrepair & the place looks so bad even the Cockroaches are moving out . However they decide to give it a chance & meet up with the estate agent Portera ( Nuria González ) who show's the couple around . While looking at the apartment Mario notices the shoes he recently threw out & Clara notices a photo of them both , soon they find out that something evil is happening & the estate agent isn't as nice as she first appeared . . . Also known as Films to Keep You Awake : To Let to English speaking audiences this Spanish production was made-for-telly & directed by Jaume Balagueró & one has to say that Películas Para no Dormir : Para Entrar a Vivir is one of the better entries in the Films to Keep you Awake series . The script by director Balagueró & Alberto Marini at least is a straight ahead conventional horror themed story from start to finish , it's not any sort of masterpiece but it passes seventy odd minutes entertainingly enough . Películas Para no Dormir : Para Entrar a Vivir starts off very promisingly actually with a nice creepy , overcast , rain sodden opening full of foreboding & promise . Things quickly turn sour for Mario & Clara & I was at there thinking this is pretty good stuff but it reveals it's twist too early & then does nothing with it & by the end Películas Para no Dormir : Para Entrar a Vivir had become nothing more than your average slasher set in an isolated location with a couple of young lovers for victims & a crazy homicidal maniac & if that wasn't enough there's a pretty obvious & groan inducing twist ending which we could have done without . So the first half builds up the tension , the atmosphere , the intrigue & the mystery nicely with the second half collapsing into tired genre clichés which on the one hand could be considered a disappointment but on the other I am sure there will be many out there who enjoy your average bog standard teen slasher & will maybe like the second half more than the first . At less than seventy minutes in length it moves along at a decent pace , it's never boring , the character's & dialogue are OK even if the villain is a little sketchy & the basic premise is sound . Director Balagueró does alright , like just about every other horror film ever made all the colours are bleached so the whole picture is dark & moody & overcast . At least Películas Para no Dormir : Para Entrar a Vivir actually tries to be scary & crank up the tension , whether you will be scared by it will depend on your disposition but at least I could see what it was trying to do . I doubt most seasoned horror fans will have too much trouble making it to the end . There's not too much gore here , someones fingers are sliced off in a garbage disposal chute off screen , we just get to see the blood splatter & that's about it . Like the other Films to keep You Awake Películas Para no Dormir : Para Entrar a Vivir was shot in Spanish , because the film is so dark & grey the white subtitles are very easy to read although some don't stay on screen for too long . Technically the film is good , it's well made with solid production values . Filmed in Barcelona in Spain . The acting appears to be alright but since Spanish isn't my language I have no idea what anyone is saying & have to assume the subtitles are an accurate translation which sometimes they are not . Películas Para no Dormir : Para Entrar a Vivir is one of the better Films to Keep You Awake , it starts off very well & then settles down into a rather predictable & routine second half but overall I thought it was a good effort & I liked it .
Not something your likely to forget in a hurry , a different Masters of Horror episode .	Masters of Horror : Imprint is set during the mid 19th Century in Japan where American journalist Christopher ( Billy Drago ) has been searching for a whore named Komomo ( Michie Ito ) he met several years prior whom he fell in love with & promised her he would come back to get her & take her to America with him . Christopher has been searching for Komomo for years after she disappeared from the whorehouse where he originally met her , he is currently on a Japanese island scouring the local whorehouse but again finds nothing . He decides to stay the night & is sent a facially deformed whore ( Youki Kudoh ) who claims to have known Komomo , she says that she committed suicide & they were friends . Christopher is distraught but wants to know the truth , the whore obliges & tells a very disturbed story of abortion , deformity , incest , torture , murder & cruelty in a twisted tale Christopher may regret hearing . . . This American Japanese co-production was episode 13 from season 1 of the hit-and-miss Masters of Horror TV series & was supposed to be the final episode from the opening season before the cable TV station Showtime banned it although it showed around the world on TV & was released just about everywhere on DVD too so lets not get that excited or carried away with it being banned on American TV , directed Takashi Miike this is maybe the stand out episode from season 1 & overall a pretty memorable viewing experience . The script by Daisuke Tengan was based on the novel ' Bokke , Kyote ' by Shimako Iwai & for the most part Imprint feels like a tragic historical drama where life is hard & everyone is a victim of some sorts so it's pretty bleak viewing but there are flashes of real nastiness here as well as a darkly gruesome climax that I'm sure not many would be able to guess or see coming , I know I didn't & it's a perverse climax that's pretty unpleasant as well . When all said & done the story is simple & the whore tells three different versions of it until finally Christopher makes her tell the truth so you get the same story slightly modified several times presented in flashback scenes which works well enough for the most part . However Imprint is all about it's taboo & slightly disturbed content which includes incest , torture , murder , abortion , whores & brothel's , freaks of nature & just a good old plain throughly depressing & twisted outlook on everything . Call me sick but I rather liked it for it's extreme material but this definitely isn't for everyone especially those with weak constitutions , at least it's something different & doesn't shy away from any sort of nastiness which has to be a good thing . Director Miike is renowned for this type of extreme over-the-top stuff & he doesn't let his fans down here with all sorts of shocking imagery , there are DIY abortions , deformed freaks , incest & a pretty heavy torture scene where someone has needles stuck under their fingernails & in their gums , ouch . There's a fair sense of style here & I loved the green sky used as an evocative background in one shot in particular , it's not scary but I think the makers of Imprint were going for a more disturbing feel & they succeeded . Imprint starts off a touch slowly but it gathers both pace & gets evermore disturbed as it goes along , at only 60 odd minutes in length it doesn't outstay it's welcome either . Technically the film is fine with nice period Japanese recreation , it looks to have had some money behind it & doesn't look like the cheap made-for-cable TV film that it in all honestly is . The acting is OK but some of the Japanese actors aren't great , Billy Drago is always watchable . Imprint is a good Masters of Horror episode that's pretty hard to watch at times & is also quite depressing as there are no happy endings for anyone . Worth a watch for those with the stomach .
" Deader than Elvis . " Not too bad actually .	Hidaway tells the tale of the Harrison family , husband & wife Hatch ( Jeff Goldblum ) & Lindsey ( Christine Lahti ) plus their teenage daughter Regina ( Alicia Silverstone ) . Driving back from a weekend away they are involved in a car accident which kills Hatch but after being technically dead for 1 hour & 20 minutes Dr . Jonas Nyebern ( Alfred Molina ) manages to bring him back to life using a new form of resuscitation developed by himself . At first the Harrison family believe they have been given a second change & are overjoyed but one night Hatch as a disturbing vision while cutting himself , that of a young missing girl named Wendy Stone ( Gaetana Korbin ) being brutally murdered . The visions continue as Hatch begins to think that he may have a psychic link with a serial killer named Vassago ( Jeremy Sisto ) but at the same time Vassago has a link with him & decides he'll pay Hatch's family a nice friendly visit . . . Directed by Brett Leonard I thought Hideaway was a decent enough horror / thriller but in the end nothing spectacular . The script by Andrew Kevin Walker & Neal Jimenez was based on the novel by Dean R . Koontz who was prepared to sue to get his name off the opening credits he thought it so crap , well I probably wouldn't want to put my name to it but that seems a little extreme . Anyway Hideaway moves along at a reasonable pace although it could have used 10 or so minutes cut out , it takes Goldblum ages to realise what's going on while we , the audience , know almost straight away so we sit there waiting for him to catch up . I was also disappointed in the weak climax , a lacklustre good vs . evil showdown with Goldblum's family in danger , seen it all before . On a positive note I thought the film was entertaining for what it was , there's an average twist at the end which isn't brilliant but is better than nothing I suppose & it maintained my interest in where it was going . Director Leonard doesn't do much to impress , Hideaway is a well made but has little in the way of scares or tension . The best scenes involve Vassago dressed in shades & long black coat , he's has a strong on screen presence . The gore is OK but not exactly plentiful , someone impales themselves on a knife , someone's eye is poked out , there are a couple of slit throats & Goldblum clenches a razor which sends blood squirting everywhere . With an extremely healthy sounding $15 , 000 , 000 budget I simply can't see where all that money went , I really can't . Sure you have to pay stars Goldblum & Silverstone but apart from that there's no big action scenes , limited special effects , no exotic locations & the thing looks like a TV film on occasion . Certainly not worth fifteen big ones . The acting is pretty good & Goldblum is always good to watch although I thought Lahti as his wife was awful . Hideaway is a decent way to pass the time , it's not the best film ever but it's not the worst . I liked it but I could see why someone wouldn't , hard to give a glowing recommendation to but I think it's worth a watch .
Decent season final episode .	Blade : The Series : Conclave starts as Blade's ( Sticky Fingaz ) hideout is attacked by Marcus's ( Neil Jackson ) men lead by Chase ( Jessica Gower ) , in a huge explosion Shen ( Nelson Lee ) is captured & taken to Marcus while Blade is left for dead . Obviously Blade survived & going on the information he has decides to gatecrash the Vampire party at the Conclave in Toronto where several top ranking Vampires are supposed to meet , Marcus , Chase & Krista ( Jill Wagner ) are planning to assassinate the pureblood Vampires with a gas which doesn't affect turnblood's so he can gain control for himself . Shen escapes & together with Blade they enter the Conclave for a showdown with Marcus . . . This was episode 12 from season 1 of the made-for-TV Blade : The Series , directed by Alex Chapple this is probably the best episode I've seen from this series . The script by David S . Goyer , Geoff Johns & Daniel Truly ends the first series with a bang as this one is pretty much wall-to-wall action with fights , torture & double crosses although you will have to have seen at least a few other episodes for them to make much sense & have any real meaning . This one moves along at a nice pace , the twists & turns make it one of the more interesting episodes to watch & there are some decent moments in this . As usual this looks good & is well made , the fights seem a lot better in this one & the action scenes just seem bigger . The fights between Krista & Chase ( who is one hot chick ) & Blade & Marcus at the end are pretty cool . There is also some gore here as someone has their fingernails sliced out with a scalpel & a few Vampires melt into goo . Conclave is a decent enough watch & one of the better Blade : The Series episodes that I have seen , the very sudden ending definitely leaves things open for a season 2 . . .
" I rarely use it myself sir , it promotes rust . " Entertaining family orientated fantasy horror .	Gremlins starts with an inventor named Randall Peltzer ( Hoyt Axton ) being lead into a shop by a young Chinese boy ( John Louie ) & introduces Randall to his Grandfather ( Keye Luke ) . Randall is looking for a Christmas present for his son Billy ( Zach Galligan ) & finds a cage in the corner of the shop with a cute little creature inside called a Mogwai & buys it , however there are three rules which must never be broken , don't get him wet , expose him to sunlight & most importantly never feed him after midnight . Back home in the small American town of Kingston Falls & Randall gives Billy the Mogwai who he calls Gizmo , unfortunately one of Billy's friends Pete ( Cory Feldman ) spills water on Gizmo which make him reproduce as little Mogwai's pop out of his back . These ones are different to Gizmo , they are mischievous & trick Billy into feeding them after midnight . The next morning & Billy's room is full of slimy green cocoons which eventually hatch & let loose green scaly monsters with big ears & sharp teeth . It's not long before one of them has jumped into the local swimming pool for reproduction purposes & before anyone knows it the entire town is overrun with Gremlins intent on death & destruction . It's up to Billy & his girlfriend Kate ( Phoebe Cates ) to try & save the day as the local authorities have a hard time believing their story . . . Directed by Joe Dante Gremlins is a big budget family orientated horror fantasy film with a strong comedy element & for what it is it isn't too bad at all . The script by Chris Columbus takes a little while to get going as there isn't a green slimy Gremlin until past the 45 minute mark which is a bit long really . When they do show up most of what they get up to is of moral questionalbility with beer drinking , smoking cigarette's , attacking people , causing crashes & playing poker rather than all out blood & gore , in fact not that many people actually die in Gremlins . In a way I'm not sure quite what Gremlins set out to be , a scary horror film with monsters on the rampage or a more family fantasy type film with the sentimental Father Son stuff , the lovable inventor whose inventions never quite work , the highly intelligent family dog who can seemingly understand English , the way the Mogwai's are so cute & in the end Gremlins is half & half with neither element particularly dominating . The gore & violence is relatively restrained & mostly aimed at the Gremlins themselves with a one being sliced up in a meat mincer , one explodes in a microwave , one is decapitated & it's head lands on a fire & there is a cool melting Gremlin at the end . The character's are likable even if their a little overblown & overly comical . With a budget of about $11 , 000 , 000 Gremlins is technically very good with that Hollywood polish to it . The special effects are generally very good although don't forget that Gremlins was made way before the advent of CGI so expect lots of puppets & animatronics rather than flashy computer effects . The cinematography , music & production values are great & it is well made throughout . The acting is OK but nothing spectacular . Gremlins is one of those somewhat predictable ' feel good ' films made by big studios & at what it sets out to be Gremlins succeeds & is a very good film in it's own right . The slightly slow first half & it's indecision on what it wants to be stops it from obtaining classic status in my eyes but Gremlins is still a fine film & well worth a watch .
A genre classic ?	The Exorcist is set in Georgetown in Washington DC where famed actress Chris MacNeil ( Ellen Burstyn ) & her twelve year old daughter Regan ( Linda Blair ) live in a large house . Having recently moved there after separating from her husband Chris becomes increasingly worried by her daughter's odd behaviour , Regan spouts obscenities , masturbates with a crucifix & acts very violently towards people . After various tests Doctor's are at a loss to explain medically what is wrong with Regan & suggest Chris contacts a psychiatrist or even stage a exorcism . Things continue to get worse as is turns out Regan is responsible for the murder of film director Burke Dennings ( Jack MacGowran ) , desperate Chris turns to Father Damian Karras ( Jason Miller ) for help who after his own investigation is convinced Regan is possessed by a demon & recommends to the Church that an exorcism be performed . . . Directed by William Friedkin one probably has to say that The Exorcist is one of the most famous & widely regarded horror films ever made with reports of audience members vomiting , fainting & mass walk-outs in theatres the film has a definite controversy & legacy surrounding it . Originally released on Boxing Day 1973 in the US at around the two hour mark The Exorcist was re-released in 2000 with about twelve minutes of restored footage & some subtle CGI work under the title The Exorcist : The Version You've Never Seen & it is this longer cut that I will be basing my comments on . The script by William Peter Blatty which was based on his novel stands up pretty well when viewed today , there's real building of momentum as the film starts off with a very normal mother & daughter only for the film to show Regan get worse & worse & the effect it has on the people around her & as it all snowballs . At first Regan's mother tries to cure her daughter with modern medical science but when that fails more unorthodox methods are used . The film has lots of religious overtones which probably didn't go down to well at the time of it's release with some really foul language , scenes of defiled statues in Church , Regan masturbating with a crucifix & the eventual exorcism which the film ultimately builds up to . The character's are very good , the film certainly held my interest throughout even though I generally dislike long films & there are one or two iconic & memorable set-pieces like the head twisting scene & of course the green vomit the possessed Regan spews over Karras . My only real problem is that The Exorcist goes on for a bit too long , while I didn't get bored I did start to look at the clock , it's never explained what the mysterious noises in the attic were & I wasn't keen on the new ending with Kinderman & Dyer walking off to the ' this could be the start of a beautiful relationship ' line . With a filming schedule that was originally planned for 85 days yet went on for 224 the film has a certain intensity & a cold matter of fact style about it , the camera remains quite static & the shots are very long unlike films today where it looks like the cameraman is having a fit & the editing is so quick you can barely tell whats happening . There are some great moments & I especially love the unexpected jump scare in the attic when the candle bursts into flame , it's such a cheap scare effect yet so effective . The Exorcist isn't the goriest or most violent film ever made , there's only two dead bodies in it , some blood in a medical scene & that's about it , it's probably the disturbing nature of the things that happen that are so effective & memorable rather than because they are graphic . The special make-up effects by Oscar winner Dick Smith are superb as you would expect . Watching the extended version last night I was very aware of how little music there is in the film , in fact apart from the opening & closing credits I can't actually remember any during the film itself at all . There's a definite sense of unease & dread as the film builds up to it's climax & this is where I personally think the film fails to deliver , after such an excellent sustained build up the ending is nothing more than two guy's standing around a bed chanting silly sounding religious lines of dialogue . With a supposed budget of about $10 , 000 , 000 The Exorcist is very well made & certainly looks good if a little basic by todays standards . The special effects are good & the new extended cut doesn't go overboard on the CGI . Filmed throughout New York , the Warner Bros . studios in California , Washington & Iraq in which an all British film crew were hired since the US had no diplomatic relations with Iraq back then , not that they do now of course either ! The acting is very good from a strong cast , although Linda Blair played the possessed Regan & was nominated for an Oscar as best supporting actress for the role she was actually dubbed throughout . The Exorcist is regarded as some sort of landmark classic in the horror genre which I suppose it is & while it's an undeniably great film all round I don't hold it in such high regard since it's just not that much fun to watch . Followed by the entertainingly awful Exorcist II : The Heretic ( 1977 ) , the average Exorcist III ( 1990 ) & the rather excellent prequel Exorcist : The Beginning ( 2004 ) which itself was re-cut & altered & re-released as Dominion : Prequel to the Exorcist ( 2005 ) .
' Chicks with picks . ' Better than I expected but it ain't perfect . . .	The Descent opens with three friends , Sarah ( Shauna MacDonald ) , Juno ( Natalie Jackson Mendoza ) & Rebecca ( Saskia Mulder ) white water rafting down some very British looking river . Sarah while on her way home with her husband Paul ( Oliver Milburn ) & young daughter Jessica ( Molly Kayll ) is involved in a road accident in which she is the only survivor . It's now ' One Year Later ' & the girls are planning another adventure outing & meet up together in the heart of an American mountain range . They are joined by three more women , the annoying Holly ( Nora-Jane No one ) , Beth ( Alex Reid ) & Sam ( MyAnna Buring ) who all set off for some underground caverns . Once they arrive they enter via a large hole in the ground , the only way out is to negotiate the passageways & tunnels . In traditional horror film style they quickly become lost & after a cave-in stuck , Juno admits she has brought them to the wrong cave system & one that is unexplored , furthermore she doesn't have a clue how to get out . As they venture deeper & further into the caverns panic & arguing sets in amongst the group , to make matters even worse they are not the only living creatures down there as they have to contend with flesh eating human like monsters . . . Written & directed by Neil Marshall this UK production has me in two minds . On the one hand I thought certain aspects were better than I expected , while at other times I was disappointed . The script by Marshall , who made another British horror film called Dog Soldiers ( 2002 ) which I much prefer , takes what seemed like an eternity to get going & introduce the ' Crawlers ' . I couldn't check my watch because I saw it in a cinema but it felt like well over 40 minutes before they showed up , to be fair when they do & The Descent kicks into straight horror then it's top-notch for the rest of it's running time . Until this point The Descent has virtually no horror elements at all , in fact it plays like a disaster film as they become trapped & try to figure a way out , I just can't get over how slow & uneventful this opening 30 plus minutes are . There was always a foreboding atmosphere that this was all building up to something but I went from excited expectation to desperate hope that something , anything that even resembles horror would pop up soon . I hated how Sarah's character suddenly became the female Arnold Schwarzenegger & kicked , punched , outrun , out-thought , stabbed , killed & poked eyes out as these ' Crawlers ' couldn't even scratch her ! Having said that the end slightly redeems itself . Also prepare to sit through a dark film , very dark . I mean dark as sometimes the screen is almost completely black & it's virtually impossible to see what's happening & bear in mind I saw it on a huge cinema screen . One cramped cave tunnel looks much like any-other so it is sometimes difficult to grasp just where everyone is in relation to everyone else & the location offers little variety . On the positive side , which there are many , Marshall creates some wonderfully atmospheric sequences in particular a scene when Sarah is stuck in a small tunnel which has to be one of the most tension filled & unnerving scenes in a horror film in the past few years . The caverns provide a real feeling of isolation which Marshall uses to his advantage . There are some real genuine scares here as well , I saw it with an audience in a cinema & there were some strong reactions to certain bits . I think we all liked the scene when Marshall first introduces a ' Crawler ' via the infra red on a camcorder , you'll know when you see it . There are reasonable amounts of gore but they don't really kick in until the ' Crawlers ' show up & they consist mainly of blood spurting & bites although there is a scene where someone's bone is sticking out through their skin , someone has a pick axe stuck through their throat & a cave full of bloody body parts & bones . The special effect are very good & thankfully it doesn't rely on awful CGI for which The Descent deserves another star at least . The ' Crawlers ' themselves look a bit cheap at times & just like thin humans really & look almost exactly like Gollum from the Lord of the Ring ( 2001 - 2003 ) films . The acting is strong throughout & it was an interesting decision to have an entirely female cast & not a single male except Paul who dies within the first few minutes . Technically The Descent is fine but as I've mentioned the cinematography is somewhat dark & the cave setting became a little dull after a while . Overall I liked The Descent & I think most of the audience I watched it with did too , but unfortunately I just can't stop thinking about that painfully slow opening 30-40 minutes & I don't think I would be in any hurry to watch it again any time soon because of this . Oh , & the aerial shots of the U . S . A . mountain range don't match the ground shots which were filmed in Scotland I believe as the trees are completely different . I think The Descent is a very good horror film but not a brilliant one , but when all said & done I definitely think it's well worth watching so what are you waiting for ?
" This isn't just bullsht for the DVD . " - Simon Baker . Decent but short documentary .	Undead Again : The Making of ' Land of the Dead ' is a brief just under 13 minute long look at the making of George A . Romero's 2005 film Land of the Dead & is an OK way to pass 10 minutes but there's not much to it when all said & done . The documentary consists of various cast & crew members mainly talking about Romero & that he invented the zombie genre & that he's a great guy . You know it's the sort of shameless sucking up & back patting that these things usually entail . What saves it are the cool behind-the-scenes footage that thankfully represents most of the running time including lots of shots of people with camcorders filming people filming the film , if you know what I mean . Pleasingly there are numerous snippets of footage showing the gore scenes from various angles , some on set close-ups , some of the fake props & what they looked like ' on set ' while they were being filmed . As a whole it's an OK watch if you have the DVD which this documentary is part of but it's far from exhaustive or essential .
OK ghostly thriller .	Night Orchid tells the tale of a loner named Clay Doyle ( Dale Paris ) who stops a town in Florida called Ochopee . Clay has a unique gift , he can see past acts of violence wherever he goes without warning which affects every aspect of his life . Clay decides to stick around Ochopee for a while , he manages to get a job at the local garage as a mechanic for Bert McCord ( Thomas Radcliffe Atkins ) & he finds a place to stay with a lady named June Mabel ( Mary Ellen O'Brien ) . Despite the odd vision of a store hold up that ended in tragedy Clay likes it in Ochopee & even meets a girl named Sarah Miller ( Alyssa Siemen ) whom he become involved with , however something isn't quite right about Sarah & he ask's June about her only to lean that a girl named Sarah Miller mysteriously disappeared 30 years prior & no-one in Ochopee had a clue why & they still don't . Since Clay is getting visions of her Sarah must have died a violent death & he sets out to discover the truth & lay the mystery to rest once & for all . . . Co-edited , written , co-produced & directed by Mark Atkins , who also has a role in the film as a character named Slash , I personally thought Night Orchid was a decent murder mystery with a nice supernatural angle to it . The script takes it's time to build things up & draw you into the story , some may find it slightly hard going but overall I think Night Orchid rewards the time it takes to watch it . The climax is well thought out as it manages to throw in a couple of very effective twists , having said that when the killer is finally revealed their motives are far from spectacular & in a way almost to simple considering the great mystery & build up surrounding it . Now we come to length , judging by the timer on my VHS player Night Orchid clocks in at nearly 2 hours ( despite what the IMDb says ) which is too long really , there are times when I just wanted the thing to finish but this is a small gripe as I still enjoyed it as a whole . I seriously doubt anyone would want to see this more than once , once you know the twists & turns Night Orchid simply won't have any sort of re-watch value as it's main appeal is in it's initial mystery . Director Atkins does a good job of making the film pleasant enough to look at , unfortunately I would have liked a slightly stronger emphasis on the supernatural & horror aspects of the story as it mostly centers on Sarah's death although there is the odd creepy scene in here like when Clay is walking through an Orange grove & he suddenly sees someone burying a body . Technically Night Orchid is fine & it has a nice small town look & feel to it , the flashback scenes look pretty realistic . The acting is strong by all which was pretty much essential for the film to have any sort of impact . Night Orchid is one of those films that is a one time deal only , once you've seen it & it's twists & turns you won't be in any hurry to see it again , ever . Fortunately the story is both interesting & gripping enough to leave me with very positive feelings about Night Orchid , it's not a film for everyone though . Definitely worth a watch but just don't buy it because once you have seen it it'll just sit on your shelf collecting dust , either rent it or catch it on TV for free .
I actually rather liked this mixture of horror / black comedy .	And for that I apologize to no one ! Why do I like it , well firstly I should say a little bit about the films story . We open in Texas , with two idiotic yuppie annoying kids driving along in a flashy Mercedes named Buzz ( Barry Kinyon ) and Rick ( Chris Douridas ) , they call a local radio station and wind the host Vanita Brock ( Caroline Williams ) up who goes by the nickname of ' Stretch ' , they also play chicken with a pick up truck forcing it off the road , which they find very funny . Later on that night they call Stretch again and start annoying her ( and us , the viewer ) again . Then they come across the pick up from earlier blocking the road , it backs up and lets them through but starts to chase them over a bridge , side by side . Leatherface ( Bill Johnson ) jumps up from the back of the pick up and kills them both with a chainsaw . All of this is captured on the radio and recorded . Lieutenant Enright ( Dennis Hopper ) , know as Lefty to his friends has been trying to track the chainsaw killers down for years in revenge for his brother who was killed by them in part 1 . He arranges an appeal for information in a local paper . Stretch see this and takes the tape to Lefty at his hotel , at first he seems disinterested , but manages to persuade Stretch to play the tape on air that evening so he can flush the killers out . It works and the chainsaw family of Leatherface , Chop Top ( Bill Moseley ) and their rambling and frankly plain annoying Father ( Jim Siedow ) hear the recording on the radio and go after Stretch , and in turn Lefty goes after them armed with a couple of chainsaws of his own . But will he be able to save Stretch and put an end to the chainsaw families murderous activities ? You'll have to watch to find out ! Directed by Tobe Hooper who directed the original , I thought Texas chainsaw 2 was a good film . Some of the black humour falls a little flat , especially Jim Siedow's head of the family character , he rabbits on about nothing in particular and is a little hard to understand , very annoying . The gore , by Tom Savini is good and there are one or two nasty sequences in there , someones head is cut in half with a chainsaw , someone is beaten to death with a hammer , there's a slit throat plus there's a pretty gross scene where Leatherface slices someones face off with an electric carving knife and you should see what he does with it afterwards . The script by L . M . Kit Carson keeps moving at a fair pace and kept me entertained , I liked it . Production values are solid enough and it has a certain Hollywood polish about it that was definitely lacking in the original , whether this is a good thing or not is up to you to decide . Apparently the film had a troubled production with infamous producers Menahem Golan and Yoram Globus supposedly messing around with it post production , there are some cut scenes floating around on a laser disc somewhere which I have seen and among other things include more killings and gore , would have been nice if they had left that stuff in there .
" You dirty filthy fornicator . " Classic exploitation .	The Toolbox Murders starts as an apartment complex is terrorised by a spate of brutal murders committed by a ski-mask wearing psycho . Detective Mark Jamison ( Tim Donnelly ) is on the case but there are few clues to go on . An attractive young woman named Dee Ann ( Kelly Nichols as Marianne Walter ) is taking a bath while listening to some bad country music , she also happens to be ' pleasuring ' herself if you know what I mean . As Dee Ann masturbates in the bath the ski-masked psycho breaks into her apartment , she quickly becomes his latest victim as he brutally murders her with a nail-gun . In the apartment above a teenage girl named Laurie Ballard ( Pamela Ferdin ) is speaking on the phone when the ski-masked psycho creeps up on her & renders her unconscious . Laurie's brother Joey ( Nicolas Beauvy ) & mum Jo Ann ( Aneta Corsaut ) arrive home & realise that something is wrong , especially after they get word of what happened to Dee Ann in the apartment below . Since the police aren't being much use Joey decides to find his sister himself & enlists the help of a friend named Kent Kingsly ( Wesley Eure ) whose uncle Vance ( Cameron Mitchell ) owns the apartment complex . Can Joey find & save his sister Laurie before she becomes the next victim of the Toolbox Murders ? Directed by Dennis Donnelly I actually rather liked The Toolbox Murders , it's unashamed exploitation that thankfully doesn't try to be anything else . The script by Neva Friedenn , Robert Easter & Ann Kindberg gets off to an absolute flier of a start with four gruesome murders within the first twenty or so minutes , The Toolbox Murders then goes into a bit of a lull for the next hour as it concentrates on Laurie's kidnapping , Joey's search for her & the ski-masked psycho's reasoning behind his brutal crimes . The film then comes to life again ten or so minutes before the end when a fairly effective & satisfying twist is revealed which I really liked . I'm not sure if this was intended as a mystery as the killers identity is kept secret behind his 70's ski-mask at first but is soon revealed not long after the opening murders , it might have helped if the filmmakers had tried to retain & continue the mystery . But at it's heart The Toolbox Murders is pure exploitation of the kind which simply doesn't get made anymore , female masturbation , barking mad psycho's with silly motives , a totally bizarre twist ending that comes from nowhere , some gory & brutal murders looking like it was all filmed on a budget that probably wouldn't cover Tom Cruise's cigar bill ! I found The Toolbox Murders to be a highly enjoyable & entertaining piece of 70's horror / exploitation that works quite well & succeeds at what it tries to achieve , it has the obligatory sleazy cheap look & feel to it which adds to the atmosphere immensely , the script could have been a little better paced but I thought The Toolbox Murders was a great way to spend 90 odd minutes of my time . I just wish the filmmakers didn't include so much bad country music on the soundtrack ! There is some good gore here with a woman being killed with a drill , one has a hammer whacked into the top of her head , someone is stabbed with a screwdriver & the famous nail-gun murder along with someone being doused in petrol & being set on fire & a stabbing , all of these scenes are drawn out , bloody & pretty brutal looking . The acting is as good as you can expect from this sort of thing , it ain't too bad but it ain't going to win anyone an Oscar anytime soon . Oh , check the funny bit out when the psycho puts his ski-mask on early on in the film , he can't even put it on straight ! Surely it's not that difficult to put a ski-mask on properly ? Overall The Toolbox Murders is one of those films you need to have a certain disposition to appreciate , it definitely isn't for everyone but if your interested in low budget horror , gore or exploitation then you could do a lot worse than The Toolbox Murders , a lot worse . I liked it & think it's well worth a watch for those with the stomach .
Great monster , odd film .	Pumpkinhead starts in ' 1957 ' as a young Ed Harley ( Chance Corbitt Jr . ) witnesses a shadowy figure outside his window kill Clayton Heller ( Dick Warlock ) a man accused of child murder , an image that will always stay with him . . . Jump to ' The Present ' & an adult Ed ( Lance Henriksen ) now runs a small grocery shop in the middle of nowhere . Six city teenagers , Joel ( John D'Aquino ) & his girl Kim ( Kimberly Ross ) , Joel's brother Steve ( Joel Hoffman ) & his girl Maggie ( Kerry Remsen ) plus the final pairing of Chris ( Jeff East ) & Tracy ( Cynthia Bain ) , are heading out to some remote backwoods to spend some time in a log cabin & stop at Ed's shop . In a tragic accident Joel knocks over & kills Ed's young son Billy ( Matthew Hurley ) , Ed is distraught while the teenagers decide to split for the cabin . Ed seeks out a witch named Haggis ( Florence Schauffler ) who resurrects an ancient demon known as Pumpkinhead to extract revenge on those Ed feels is responsible for his son's death . It's not long before the teenagers find themselves being stalked & killed by a hell sent monster . . . Directed by Stan Winston , usually better known for his special effects work on films such as Aliens ( 1986 ) , Edward Scissorhands ( 1990 ) , Terminator 2 : Judgement Day ( 1991 ) , Batman Returns ( 1992 ) , Lake Placid ( 1999 ) & the Jurassic Park films ( 1993 - 2001 ) , Pumpkinhead isn't too bad a film at all . The script by Mark Patrick Carducci & Gary Gerani is based on an eight line poem by Ed Justin & lays the morality on thick & fast , from the question whether the act of revenge is worse than the original act to whether it's all worth it in the end to how to handle grief . The film tries to take these issues & themes & stick them in what is essentially a standard ' monster running around killing teenagers ' film . It does a decent enough job but you can't help but feel that it's a bit patchy . Once Pumpkinhead gets going it never lets up & moves along at a nice pace . One thing I didn't like about Pumpkinhead is that by the end it seemed so far removed from reality & ' staged ' that I had lost the feeling I had with many of the character's , the downbeat climax may not please everyone . Director Winston does a good job here , at night out in the woods he films everything with a blue misty hue as the moonlight shines through the trees & shafts of blue light shine through small cabin windows , inside the primitive log cabins he uses a warm orange glow made by candlelight to illuminate the outline of objects . I absolutely loved the scenes of Pumpkinhead walking through a derelict Church as the rays of moonlight shine through the outline of a cross & through the broken walls . The Pumpkinhead creature effects are amazing as one would expect , they are almost flawless & Pumpkinhead surely has to be one of the finest , best looking & well realised monsters from a horror film ever . Pumpkinhead reminds strongly of another Winston creation , the Alien . The violence , gore & killings are a disappointment though , there is virtually no blood & there is no build up to any of the kills , someone will be walking along Pumpkinhead will grab them from nowhere & kill them which means there's no tension whatsoever . With a supposed budget of about $3 , 500 , 000 Pumpkinhead is a visually nice film throughout with strong & distinct colour schemes , brilliant creature effects & is generally well made . The acting is pretty good with Hendriksen putting in another fine performance . Pumpkinhead isn't a perfect film by any means as it's a bit of a mismash , but it still entertains for 85 minutes & that's really all you can hope for . Well worth watching .
" That was a fcking Chicago landmark . " Decent enough 80's action thriller .	Red Heat starts in Russia where drug baron Viktor ' Rosta ' Rostavili ( Ed O'Ross ) is busted by cop Captain Ivan Danko ( Arnold Schwarzenegger ) but he manages to escape shooting & killing Danko's partner & friend Yuri ( Oleg Vidow ) , on the run Viktor then flees to Chicago & starts to set up a huge drug deal with a local gang but is arrested on a minor traffic charge . Russia wants Viktor back & sends Captain Danko to Chicago to take custody of Viktor & escort him back home , however Viktor's people manage to bust him out in a shoot-out in which Chicago cop Detective Sergeant Tom Gallagher ( Richard Bright ) is killed . With the Russian's humiliated , a Chicago cop killed & Viktor free again Captain Danko teams up with Gallager's partner Art Ridzik ( James Belushi ) to bring Viktor to justice . . . Co-written , co-produced & directed by Walter Hill this buddy buddy mismatched cop action thriller is not too dissimilar to his earlier film 48 Hrs . ( 1982 ) , as an overblown late 80's Hollywood action film Red Heat is watchable & entertaining but not outstanding . I think that if you were to ask anyone to name one Schwarzenegger film from the 80's nobody would say Red Heat , this is minor Arnie that doesn't particularly distinguish itself but is still a decent watch all the same . The script is a fairly routine rehash of the genre clichés , the two opposing character's who have to overcome a personality clash & other differences to take down some bad guy , one goes by the book while the other is a loose cannon on the edge cop who cracks lots of one-liners , there's the blatant disregard for credibility as a police commander actually lets this Russian & one of his cops run around with guns , there's either an action scene or shoot-out at regular intervals to take your mind off the wobbly story that is rather predictable & feels wholly routine & the inevitable ending where the two mismatched partners actually realise they can work together & develop a new found respect for each other despite their differences . To be fair for what it is & what it sets out to do , basically be an entertaining buddy buddy mismatched cop action thriller , Red Heat passes the time harmlessly enough & if it wasn't for the fact that it does feel a little generic it would probably be quite highly thought of amongst 80's action film junkies . The dialogue is quite snappy & amusing at times especially Belushi's foul mouthed wise cracking cop . There's nothing wrong with Red Heat as it were but at the same time it's not a film that really stands out , still perfectly watchable though . Director Hill does alright , the production team was actually refused permission to film is Russia although they sneaked Arnie in & filmed him in Red Square while no-one was looking . . . The action scenes are well shot & edited , you can clearly see what's going on & there's none of that modern shaky hand-held camera movement or ultra quick cut editing which makes it impossible to see what's going on . This is the way an action film should be shot . Most of the set-pieces consist of shoot-outs & fights until the end when there's a pretty cool bus chase through Chicago some of which was later edited into the rubbish killer Cockroach film They Crawl ( 2001 ) . Probably one of the few big budget Hollywood action flicks where nothing explodes or gets blown up . The film is dedicated to experienced stunt coordinator Bennie Dobbins who died on set on February 5th 1988 in Vienna while staging the opening scene of the fight in the snow . I must admit that I actually found the opening titles really annoying & the way that the ' R's & ' N's in people's names were reversed , I don't know why I just found it highly irritating to read . Also one has to mention the over-the-top sound effects which can sound really silly at times , just check out the sound effects at the start as Arnie beats the guy up in the snow to hear what I mean . Technically the film is good , it has good production values & is well made . The cast is pretty good , Arnie is rather wooden , Belushi is fun , Gina Gershon is alright in a small role , Ed O'Ross makes for a good villain although I'm not sure about his accent while Laurence Fishburne does OK in an early role before he hit the big time with The Matrix trilogy . Red Heat is a film that you can't really say much about , it's a fairly generic buddy buddy mismatched cop action thriller although taken for what it is it's above average for the genre . I liked it & I am sure most action fans will too .
" Only Britain's great . . . " I rather liked it .	Doctor Who : Voyage of the Damned is set aboard an intergalactic spaceship cruise liner called the Titantic , named after the ill fated ship from Earth obviously , carrying hundreds of passengers from all over the Galaxy it stations itself above Earth during Christmas 2007 . The Doctor ( David Tennant ) arrives aboard on the TARDIS & decides to stay for a while & enjoy the festivities , however the festivities soon turn to tragedy when three meteorites collide with the Titantic severely damaging it . The Doctor along with an assorted group of survivors including sexy waitress Astrid Peth ( Kylie Minogue ) fight for survival as robotic hosts turn on their human creators killing any surviving passengers , something very sinister & very deliberate has happened & the Doctor is determined to find out what . . . The third Doctor Who Christmas special after The Christmas Invasion ( 2005 ) & The Runnaway Bride ( 2006 ) which were broadcast on Christmas Day the previous two years Voyage of the Damned was apparently the second most watched program on British telly during Christmas Day 2007 & had a 50 % or more share of the entire audience watching which is quite an achievement all things considered , directed by James Strong even though it will undoubtedly divide opinion with many saying it's ' the worst thing ever ' I actually really rather liked it . The whole thing felt like a sci-fi version of The Poseidon Adventure ( 1972 ) set in outer space with the Doctor the leader of a band of mismatched survivors fighting for their lives , Astrid as the love interest as well as a collection of other assorted unashamed clichés . Then there's their journey through the wrecked ship overcoming collapsed corridors , blocked doors & having to walk across a precariously placed beam ! I liked the Saturday afternoon action film matinée feel about it & for that I apologise to no-one . The script goes for some tragedy , some good old fashioned romance , some good action set-pieces , there's a few twists & turns as well as a bit of light hearted comedy . I liked the character's , the Doctor himself is just great as usual , I liked Astrid & I thought the bad guy at the end although a bit silly looking worked well enough & I'd have liked a bit more motivation or explanation for the Titantic's captain to turn traitor . The story is alright , I'd say it's a bit predictable & sometimes a bit rushed but I liked it , it moves along like a rocket , it's unpretentious fun & doesn't try to be anything else while I found plenty here to enjoy . This is one of the better looking things to turn up on British telly recently , lets not forget that over here we don't have huge special effects house's & techniques to create this sort of stuff so it's an achievement that it does look pretty good . Sure there's some ropey effects here but mostly they are pretty impressive , the space-bound shots of the Titantic in particular have real scope , scale & look great . I think the effects in this look as good as anything from an American TV series which sometimes can be truly awful . I must admit I did find the silly bit at the end with the Queen a tad embarrassing though & could have done without it along with the two fat comedy relief character's who are irritating but thankfully get killed off . The production design is nice & it looks glossy with a really nice contrast between the Victorian style wooden interiors that mimic the look of the real Titantic against the high tech sophistication of a intergalactic spaceship . The opening theme has undergone a slight rearrangement & it sounds a lot meatier & less orchestral . The acting is fine , Tennant is very comfortable as the Doctor these days , I quite liked Kylie Minogue & thought she looked sexy in that maids outfit while everyone else does alright . Voyage of the Damned is a fine Doctor Who adventure that I enjoyed a lot , sure it isn't perfect ( what is ? ) but as a light action orientated sci-fi fantasy with good effects & a good story I'm not one of those who are going to complain although I'm sure there will be plenty of them about that will ( unfairly ) criticise everything about it .
Overrated , good but not brilliant .	The Haunting starts with anthropology university professor Dr . John Markway ( Richard Johnson ) gaining permission to investigate the notorious Hill House from it's current owner Mrs . Sanderson ( Fay Compton ) , a supposedly haunted property . He assembles a team of assistant's , Eleanor ' Nell ' Lance ( Julie Harris ) who had paranormal experiences as a child , clairvoyant Theodora ( Claire Bloom ) & the house's cynical heir Luke ( Russ Tamblyn ) . They all meet up at the large foreboding Hill House & quickly settle down to work , as time passes it becomes very apparent that Hill House is indeed haunted by an unseen presence . . . Produced & directed by Robert Wise I have to go against ' popular ' opinion here & say that I think The Haunting is far from the classic that many here seen to make it out to be . The script by Nelson Gidding was based on the novel ' The Haunting of Hill House ' by Shirley Jackson & I thought it was pretty dull , it's too long & rather slow . Then there's the character's , I have to say that I absolutely loathed Nell as a character & she annoyed me immensely & I just couldn't feel anything for her at all . Then there's Theodora & Luke who are given virtually no screen time compared to Nell , in comparison they are very underdeveloped & as a result I felt very little for them as well . Many people like the fact that all the horror in The Haunting is suggested , it's all built up & left to the imagination , this is fine if you like this sort of technique but I just thought sitting through this film felt like a lot of effort for not much reward . Having said that it's still a good film , it does what it sets out to do perfectly well , it's well written , it ticks all the right boxes & it has a few decent scenes but overall I have to say I was disappointed by it , ironically probably because of all the overwhelmingly positive comments I've read about it it ended up being a disappointment . Director Wise does a good job here , this is where The Haunting excels . The crisp black and white photography works perfectly to create some very atmospheric scenes , the Hill House sets are also very evocative & create a nice sense of dread . However , the pace of the film drags & it starts to become a chore to watch it . Wih a supposed budget of about $1 , 400 , 000 The Haunting obviously had a fair amount of time & effort spent on it's look & feel & in this respect it's very good , unfortunately the acting & character's don't help the film . The Haunting is a good film to be sure , to be fair I think it's a film of it's age & those who like these slow moving films will have a ball while other's may want to stock up on coffee to get through it . Overall I'd say I was very disappointed but I can certainly see some merit in it .
" Your sister isn't an alien , she's something much worse . " Strangely entertaining in a bad sort of way .	Troll is set in San Francisco where Harry ( Michael Moriarty ) his wife Anne ( Shelley Hack ) & their two young children Harry Potter Jr . ( Noah Hathaway ) & Wendy ( Jenny Beck ) move into a new apartment building . Wendy decides to go play in the basement & is kidnapped by Torok the Troll ( Phil Fondacaro ) who takes her physical form , Torok the Troll was once a prince who was turned into a Troll & is now using his magical powers to flood the Earth will Trolls in an attempt to rule it . . . This Canadian American co-production was directed by John Carl Buechler who is also credited with the special effects & was another cheap horror film that Empire Pictures specialised in during the home video boom of the 80's before they went belly up in the 90's , founded by Charles & Albert Band they would rip-off various well known films & make cheap horror flicks out of them . With Troll they seem to almost rip themselves off & one of their previous films Ghoulies ( 1985 ) which was a big success on video even though it was crap , anyway I quite liked Troll for what it was despite the low IMDb rating & plenty of ' this is the worst film ever ' type comments & message board threads . The script by Ed Naha who would go on to write the impressive Dolls ( 1987 ) for Empire Pictures as well certainly doesn't take itself too seriously which is a big plus point & if your in the right mood Troll is an enjoyable light hearted fantasy horror flick . There are plenty of ambitious ideas here , witches , living mushrooms , Trolls turning people into pods which then sprout all sorts of Troll foliage , turning individual rooms into Troll forests , magical powers , the end of the world type stuff & it even has Michael Moriarty in a totally bizarre & off the wall dance scene . I mean any film which has a character say ' your sister isn't an alien , she's something much worse ' in a serious tone can't be all bad , can it ? At a little over 80 odd minutes ( for some reason the IMDb lists the US version as lasting for 30 minutes ! ) the film doesn't mess around & it moves along at a really fast pace which means at the very least it isn't boring . Special effects man Beuchler does alright in his second directorial effort after another Empire Pictures flick The Dungeonmaster ( 1985 ) a poster for which can be seen on Harry Potter's bedroom wall as well as other posters for Empire Pictures films . Speaking of Harry Potter ones mind instantly turns to the JK Rowling penned books , I suppose it's a testament to how much the character of Harry Potter has now become part of popular culture & searching through the message boards there are threads which ask if JK Rowling saw Troll & named her hero after the character's in this , I think I can in all honestly say with complete confidence that she hasn't seen Troll & if she had why would she have called her hero Harry Potter ? It's an unassuming name & surely she'd have thought of another one , even subconsciously I doubt she'd have wanted anything to connect Troll to her books although the fact Troll does contain magic , witches , sorcerers , goblins & monsters does make one think . To get a family friendly rating Troll isn't violent or gory , there's a slightly gross scene of someone changing into a green pod but otherwise there isn't a single drop of blood in the entire film . Technically the film is alright , it's reasonably well made with some decent special effects from ugly looking Trolls to animated plant vines to large monsters to a few basic but functional optical effects . Although set in America Troll was actually shot in Italy & I am almost certain I read an interview somewhere in which Michael Moriarty only agreed to make Troll because he wanted a free holiday in Italy as he'd never been there before . The acting is OK , Moriarty is good , one time husband of Cher the late Sonny Bono has a small cameo while Julia Louis-Dreyfus who appeared in over 170 episodes of Seinfeld ( 1990 - 1998 ) makes her screen debut here . Troll is one of those film that you'll either love or hate , I thought it was mucho fun over it's short 80 odd minute duration . It doesn't always make perfect sense & it's silly but who cares when somethings this entertaining ? Followed by an unconnected sequel Troll 2 ( 1992 ) ironically made by Italians in America whereas this was made by Americans in Italy ! A remake has been announced , again directed by Beuchler & apparently in production Troll ( 2009 ) should be with us soon & I just hope the cute living mushroom is back or I'll boycott it !
" I'm alive . . . oh , so are you " . I rather liked it .	Judge Dredd tells the story of human society in the near future , the entire world population has been crammed into a few ' Mega Cites ' where millions of people live , outside the confines of these man made cities is what's now know as ' The Cursed Earth ' our once green beautiful plant has become a hostile wasteland . Living inside these Mega Cities isn't easy & someone has to try & control the unruly locals , step in the likes of Judge Dredd ( Sylvester Stallone ) who have the power to try , convict & sentence . Dredd is feared throughout Mega City 1 as being very harsh & tough on criminals , that is why his brother Rico ( Armand Assante ) devises a plan to frame Dredd for murder , cause unrest & retaliation amongst the population & try to get a genetic cloning program called ' Janus ' reopened by misguided Judge Grffin ( Jurgen Prochnow ) so he can use the technology for his own evil plans in an attempt to create a genetically cloned army of himself to help him gain complete control over Mega City 1 , however Judge Dredd has other ideas . . . Directed by Danny Cannon I'm going to have to go against the general opinion here ( as usual ) & I'm going to say that I really rather enjoy Judge Dredd as a film & for that I apologise to no one . The script by William Wisher & Steven E . de Souza moves along at a nice pace , tells a decent enough story although it doesn't match the darkly clever comic book equivalent by any stretch of the imagination & generally speaking it entertains throughout . I liked the character's for what they were , Dredd is a tad clichéd as he starts out tough but ends up showing some emotion while I quite liked the usually annoying Rob Schneider's comic relief character & Rico was an OK if somewhat unimaginative villain , I'd have loved to have seen Judge Death & his mates but I guess we can't always have what we want can we . The story lacks a certain political or satirical angle which it could have used to great effect , I must admit that I used to read the Judge Dredd comics when was younger & while I have't read any in donkey's years I have always remembered the story with Judge Death , no idea why I just have . Anyway , I can probably see why many dislike the somewhat standard American action film that the Judge Dredd name has been turned into here but when all said & done I thought it was a good watch & I enjoyed it & that's all that matters to me . Director Cannon does a good job , the special effects are still pretty good even now as they mix CGI , model work & live action . The whole look & feel is here , sure the helmets look a bit daft but otherwise the film hasn't dated badly at all & it still looks impressive . A special mention goes to the huge war robot who is totally cool . There is one part that I've never got , that's when Rico hatches the clone early & we see at last one sit up in it's pod but then they are never seen or referred to again , I suspect that more was filmed but ended up being cut out , a theory that would seem to be backed up by the IMDb's ' Alternate Versions ' section . The film has a few violent moments & sufficient amount of action . Wit a supposed budget of about $90 , 000 , 000 Judge Dredd obviously has that Hollywood polish to it & is very well made with neat special effects that hold up even today . The acting was alright , Stallone makes for a good Dredd as he has to be virtually emotionless throughout . Judge Dredd seems to have a bad reputation which to an extent I can understand but I don't care about what anyone else thinks , I liked Judge Dredd for what it is & it's as simple & straight forward as that . Personally despite the lapse in logic at the end I think it's well worth a watch
" I don't ride on a broomstick through the air or kiss the devil's cck . " Decent Poe adaptation .	The Pit and the Pendulum is set in Toledo in Spain during 1492 as the Spanish Inquisition lead by Torquemada ( Lance Henriksen ) would strike fear into the hearts of the local population , they would mercilessly torture anyone they thought guilty of witchcraft . While at a public execution a kind hearted woman named Maria ( Rona De Ricci ) speaks out against the inquisition & it's methods , straight away she is accused of being a witch & carted off to be tortured while her baker boyfriend Antonio ( Jonathan Fuller ) is left for dead . When he comes round he bribes a castle guard named Gomez ( Stephen Lee , no not the British snooker player . . . ) to let him in as he tries to rescue Maria , unfortunately Antonio is caught himself & he too is tortured . Is there any way Antonio & Maria can escape the horrors of the Spanish Inqusition & save themselves . . . Directed by Stuart Gordon ( my on screen digital TV guide claimed it was directed by someone called Stuart Corman ! ) & based on the story by Edgar Allan Poe this is a pretty good period horror flick . Poe's story had already been turned into a film by Roger Corman as he directed Pit and the Pendulum ( 1961 ) staring Vincent Price although this 90's version has next to nothing in common with Corman's flick other than the title & even that was changed to The Inquisitor for it's US DVD release , the script by Dennis Paoli is pretty good here , the character's are better than one would expect with Henriksen obviously having fun playing the part of Torquemada as he's a character with some depth even if not a particularly likable one although I'm not sure about that silly hair-cut . The dialogue is OK & it moves along at a reasonable pace but I couldn't help thinking there wasn't much to it , I mean two people are accused of witchcraft & they get tortured by the Spanish Inquisition who abuse their own power & that's about it , there's a small sub-plot about the pope wanting to end the torture of the Inqusition but this is quickly forgotten & comes to nothing . I didn't like the ambiguous nature of the witches either , I mean were they real witches or not ? Why the secrecy ? So there you have it , if this sounds exciting to you or you like watching people getting tortured then The Pit and the Pendulum is the film for you , as for me I liked it but mostly because of Hendriksen & it's torture scenes . I know , I'm sick . Director Gordon does alright , the Italian castle locations look nice enough I suppose but I couldn't help but feel it was all a little flat & bland . There's certainly no real style or visual flair here that Gordon showed in his earlier films , there's a pretty nasty down beat atmosphere running through the film & it certainly isn't a feel good flick as there are no happy endings on show . Don't expect a fact based history lesson either I doubt there's much fact here apart from the Spanish inquisition themselves . While there are plenty of torture scenes The Pit and the Pendulum surprisingly isn't that graphic , there's some blood splatter , someone is impaled on spikes , a rat is sliced in half , people are burned at the stake & various scenes of torture which aren't particularly intense . There's some full frontal nudity as well if that's your thing . With a supposed budget of about $2 , 000 , 000 this looks nice enough if a little forgettable , it's reasonably well made with better than average production values & decent period detail although most of it takes place in the same room . The acting is pretty good even if a potentially great cast is wasted , Oliver Reed , Jeffrey Combs , Stephen Lee & Tom Towles are somewhat underused . The Pit and the Pendulum is a fine horror film , it's not the most complex or absorbing film ever but for some exploitative nudity & torture it delivers & frankly you can't argue with exploitative nudity & torture . I liked it , I just wish it had been a bit more graphic & the story was a bit meatier . Still a good effort though .
" Either this is coincidence , some kinky freak burglary turned tragic or we've got more than one supernormal maniac on our hands . " Bizarrely entertaining horror .	Scream and Scream Again starts somewhere in central London as a jogger runs along as the opening credits play , suddenly he collapses with chest pains . He wakes up in what looks like a Hospital room surrounded by various pieces of medical equipment & being seen to by a sexy Nurse named Jane ( Uta Levka ) who never says anything , to his horror he quickly realises that one of his legs has been surgically removed ! Next were off to some secret military run Country or State , like a lot of things in Scream and Scream Again it isn't really explained to any satisfactory degree so get used to it now , which strongly resembles Nazi Germany except they have a slightly different symbol on their flags & uniforms . A top officer named Schweitz ( Peter Sallis ) is assassinated by another officer named Konratz ( Marshall Jones ) who kills him by merely grabbing his shoulder , for some reason or other . Then it's back to the mysterious Hospital again as the poor jogger finds out that he has lost his other leg & Jane still won't say anything . A woman named Ilene Stevens has been found dead in a park somewhere in London , no nonsense Dectective Superintendent Bellaver ( Alfred Marks ) who likes to say ' bloody ' a lot & his men are on the case . He decides to pay a visit to Dr . Browning ( Vincent Price ) for whom Ilene worked , Browning is of little help . Professor Kingsmill ( Kenneth Benda ) & his assistant Dr . Sorel ( Christopher Matthews ) perform the autopsy & come to the conclusion that Ilene was brutally murdered , raped & drained of her blood . Another female victim is found drained of blood , Konratz continues to torture prisoners & assassinate his superiors , British Intelligence minister Fremont ( Christopher Lee ) has a political crisis on his hands when the military Country , State or whatever it is shoots one of our planes down & capture the pilot , the police finally catch up with the ' Vampire killer ' whose name happens to be Keith ( Micheal Gothard ) who rips his own hand off to escape cuffs & then throws himself into a vat of acid , Dr . Sorel uncovers a plot to replace humanity with artificial synthetic replicas made partly from real body parts & back at the Hospital the jogger has both his arms & eventually his head removed as well ! I really can't explain Scream and Scream Again's plot any better as even now I still don't understand it myself , this is one strange mixed-up film . Directed by Gordon Hessler I don't quite know where to start . First the script by Christopher Wicking based on the novel by Peter Saxon ' The Disorientated Man ' which is a much better & more appropriate title than Scream and Scream Aagin because by the time this thing finishes you'll know how the man in Saxon's original title feels ! There is no one central character in Scream and Scream Again as it darts between one set of characters & another never really settling down & concentrating on any particular person or persons . As you can probably tell from my attempted plot synopsis Scream and Scream Again is very silly & a bit of a mess having various seemingly unrelated plot strands going at once & incorporating several genres like horror , Sci-Fi , political espionage thriller , spy film , police action & it even manages to fit a couple of groovy 60's disco dancing routines in there somewhere too . It isn't until the final 10 minutes or so that Scream and Scream Again even tries to tie them together which it doesn't really succeed in doing as I still had many unanswered questions when the end credits started to roll . I also thought the ending was rather lazy as it just seemed to have almost everyone end up in the vat of acid ! Having said that I couldn't help but like it , I found it throughly entertaining to watch & something bizarre is always happening . It moves along like a rocket with almost no dead running time whatsoever & I must give at least some credit for that alone as if it's one thing I can't stand it's dull , slow & uneventful horror films & luckily Scream and Scream Again is none of these things . There isn't much gore , a severed hand & a bit of blood is about it . The cast is great featuring horror icons Peter Cushing , Christopher Lee & Vincent Price who unfortunately never meet & Cushing has only a few minutes of screen time before he is killed by someone grabbing his shoulder . A special mention goes to Marks police officer Bellaver who has become one of my favourite grumpy , no nonsense , tactless , just downright funny & charming Detectives ever . Hessler doesn't manage to create much tension or atmosphere & his direction is a little pedestrian , he uses far too many day-for-night shots as well which stand out in an annoying kind of way , he does however mange to create that unique feeling of Britishness throughout . Technically Scream and Scream Again is fairly basic but is professionally enough made considering it's probable low budget origins . Overall Scream and Scream Again is a total mess & I didn't really understand any of it but I just found the whole thing so entertaining to watch , don't think about it to much & just sit back & enjoy the constant barrage of bizarre imagery & storytelling . Definitely recommended , especially if your looking for something a little bit different which Scream and Scream Again most certainly is !
" It's a war zone down here Dave ! ' Decent sequel but not as good as the original .	Predator 2 starts in ' Los Angeles 1997 ' where Colombian & Jamaican gangs of drug dealers have turned the streets into a war zone with shoot outs & executions a seemingly daily occurrence . Lieutenant Michael Harrigan ( Danny Glover ) & his team , Danny Archuleta ( Ruben Blades ) , Leona Cantrell ( Maria Conchita Alonso ) & new boy Jerry Lambert ( Bill Paxton ) are on the front line fighting against the terror these gangs bring to the streets . However there seems to be a new player in town , a new kind of killer loose , a killer without mercy , without motive , without discrimination & one who loves to kill . Harrigan & his team have nothing to go on except a spear head made from a material that is unknown on Earth & the sudden appearance of shadowy FBI figure Peter Keyes ( Gary Busey ) & his team of men who seem very interested in capturing whoever or whatever is responsible for these brutal killings . It's not long before Harrigan realises that what he is up against is not of this planet , it's the ultimate killing machine , it's the ultimate predator . . . Directed by Stephen Hopkins I thought Predator 2 was a good solid sci-fi / horror / action film but was not as good as the original Predator ( 1987 ) which had the perfect blend of blood , guts , big guns , testosterone , one-liners , action & explosions . I cannot say the same for Predator 2 , unfortunately . The script by Jim & John Thomas shifts the action from the jungles of Central America to the urban jungle of Los Angeles which is my first problem , I just thought that the hunter / prey situation worked so much better in the isolated harsh jungle than the sprawling city of Los Angeles . Danny Glover is no Arnold Schwarzenegger in the running around with a big gun blowing things up stakes & they just had to include the clichéd misguided scientist who wants to capture the predator so we can study it . Also , if these FEDS were so clever why did they leave the only piece of information that could lead Harrigan to them & the predator on the computer for that pathologist to find & yet manage to completely delete everything else ? Having said that Predator 2 is a good film , it moves along at a nice pace , has one or two decent action scenes & provides solid entertainment . Director Hopkins could have done a better job , for a start just having people randomly fire guns at nothing in particular is neither exciting or original & I actually thought the action scenes lacked a certain spark & seemed a little dull even down to an almost incomprehensible train sequence in which you can barely tell what's happening because it's set amidst flickering lights . Danny Glover looked a bit old & out of shape as well as he tries to do a Mel Gibson in Lethal Weapon ( 1987 ) , wasn't Glover purposely the old slow one in the Lethal Weapon films ? Apparently Predator 2 was cut down to get a lower rating so don't expect buckets of blood or gore , there are some skinned bodies , a decapitated head , someone is cut with a razor wire net , people are impaled on spears & there are plenty of gunshot wounds but there's nothing here overly nasty . Technically Predator 2 is great & has that big budget Hollwood polish to it , the special effects hold up well even today & the predator creature is just plain cool , isn't it ? A lot of the original's music is reused here which also seemed out of place & inappropriate at times . Predator 2 has a fine cast which it wastes , Paxton is always watchable , Robert Davi is criminally underused although Conchita Alonso annoyed me with her hairstyle & irritating accent . Predator 2 is a good film of that there is no doubt but I much prefer the original , it's as simple & straight forward as that . Definitely worth a watch though as I think most would enjoy it .
" There is only one form of life that matters . . . Dalek life ! " The only surviving episode from this story .	Doctor Who : The Evil of the Daleks : Episode 2 starts in London 1966 where the Doctor ( Patrick Troughton ) & Jamie ( Frazer Hines ) arrive at Edward Waterfield's ( John Bailey ) antiques shop at his request as they search for the stolen TARDIS , once there they find a man named Kennedy ( Griffith Davis ) dead & a secret room with a time machine inside . They are both rendered unconscious by some gas & Waterfield activates the time machine & transports himself , the Doctor & Jamie back 100 years to 1866 & a house owned by Theodore Maxtible ( Marius Goring ) . The Doctor demand to know what's going on & soon finds out as he discovers his old enemy the Daleks are up to no good . . . again . . . Episode 38 from season 4 this Doctor Who adventure originally aired here in the UK during May 1967 , The Evil of the Daleks was a mammoth seven part story which was totally wiped from the BBC archives during the tape purge of the early 70's to free up space & thus was lost in it's entirety until 1987 when Episode 2 was found in a private sale here in England . The only other surviving footage is a three second clip of two Daleks from Episode Seven which , lets face it , amounts to just about nothing . The final story from season 4 The Evil of the Daleks was Patrick Troughton's seventh story as the Doctor from his first season & is one of only six complete surviving episode from that season spread across the seven stories . Anyway , directed by Derek Martinus from a script by David Whitaker it's difficult to comment on one episode in isolation but I have to say I quite liked this & after seeing it I am slightly disappointed that I will in all probability never get to see the other six episodes . The story is quite good here , obviously it has a long way to go with a further five episodes & a lot can or indeed can't happen but it looked a good story & by all accounts it was / is . It moves along at a nice pace , it didn't seem to have any padding & I actually got quite into the action . I liked it , a shame I'll never get to see the rest of it . This story also features the debut of Victoria played by Deborah Watling who would go on to travel with the Doctor in TARDIS & become a regular companion until Fury From the Deep ( 1968 ) at the end of the following season . This one looks good with a large part of it being set in 1866 , the BBC even back then were damed good at period costume dramas ( certainly better than they ever have been at staging convincing sci-fi ) & the production design on this is pretty impressive . Was it just me or did the Daleks in this look really short ? I mean when one confronts Patrick Troughton who isn't exactly the tallest man ever himself it's actually shorter than Troughton is which just look a bit odd . There is also a very noticeable goof in this , when the Dalek puts Victoria on the scales after the close-up on her face if you look at the left hand side of the screen during the shot straight after you can see part of a TV camera move out of shot ! Probably the one that had just filmed the close-up on Victoria's face in fact . Evil of the Daleks : Episode 2 is a tantalising & frustrating glimpse into what seems like a good Dalek story ( contary to popular belief there aren't that many about . . . ) & I'm a tad disappointed I'll never be able to see the other six episodes . Oh well , I suppose in the grand scheme of life it doesn't matter that much . This can be found on the 3 disc Lost in Time Doctor Who DVD release & is a must for fans who have to see everything otherwise I doubt there's much point for more casual viewers .
" When you are poor no one wants to know you . " Hammer studio's attempt at the classic Holmes mystery .	The Hound of the Baskervilles starts in the mid 18th Century as Sir Hugo Baskerville ( David Oxley ) is enraged after a peasant girl escapes his lecherous clutches , Hugo chases after her & murders her but ends up with his throat torn out by a Hound from Hell that has been said to terrorise the Baskerville family ever since . . . The most recent Baskerville , Sir Charles , has also been found dead with a look of terror on his face although it has been officially put down as a heart condition , however Sir Charles best friend Dr . Richard Mortimer ( Francis De Wolff ) thinks other forces may be at work & asks the worlds foremost detective Sherlock Holmes ( Peter Cushing ) & his trusty assistant Dr . John Watson ( Andre Morell ) for help in discovering the true nature of Sir Charles death . The last of the Baskervilles Sir Henry ( Christopher Lee ) is set to inherit the entire Baskerville estate & fortune , after an attempt is made on his life Holmes is convinced that he is facing great evil & that Sir Henry is in grave danger . Sir Henry , Watson & Dr . Mortimer travel down to Devonshire where the town of Grimpen & Baskerville Hall are located , as Sir Henry introduces himself to the locals & Watson starts to investigate it seem almost everyone has a strong motive for murder . . . This British made Holmes mystery was directed by Terence Fisher & produced by Hammer who are perhaps both better know for their Dracula & Frankenstein series of films & a fine adaptation it is too with plenty of Hammer horror overtones & aspects . Maybe this version is not for the purists though , the script by Peter Bryan based on the novel by Arthur Conan Doyle changes quite a few things in an attempt to add a bit of tension , a few dramatics & quicken the pace up considerably . The film opens with flashback to the Sir Hugo incident unlike every other version I've seen which opens with Sir Charles Death & subsequently Dr . Mortimer tells Holmes about the legend later . While Watson & Sir Henry travel to Baskerville Hall on their own Holmes absence is probably only a few minutes as he turns up almost immediately again unlike other versions where he virtually disappears for the majority of the film , I think the idea behind this was to have Holmes on screen as Hammer thought audiences wanted to see him rather than Watson . Sir Henry is no longer American , the relationship between him & Cecile Stapelton ( Marla Landi ) develops in a different way & is barely touched upon , there is a scene in a mine shaft in which someone tries to kill Holmes & the ending is slightly different to any version I've seen . None of this makes it a bad film , far from it in fact as I rather enjoyed seeing Hammer taking the basic story & trying to make a commercial film out of it that the paying punters would flock to . This version still retains the strong story elements that make this such a timeless & entertaining tale but tries to spruce things up a bit . Director Fisher presents the typical image of Holmes complete with deerstalker cap , cape & pipe , I'm not sure what happened to the Hound in this version as it only gets about 2 minutes worth of screen time right at the end . Technically The Hound of the Baskervilles is solid , this was the first Sherlock Holmes film to be filmed in colour & it looks a little garish at times , the sets are great & the Hammer horror influence shines through with fog enshrouded ruins , dark Gothic type castle interiors & creaky old mines & as a whole it's well made throughout . The acting is good with Hammer regulars Cushing & Lee always fun to watch with the rest of the experienced cast doing a good job . Not the best version of The Hound of the Baskervilles but by no means the worst & if your familiar with the story then this may throw a few surprises & those without the patience to sit through a 2 plus hour adaptation then this is the one to go for as it runs for less than 90 minutes & considerably condenses things yet still manages to retain the ingredients that make the story such a success . Definitely worth a watch for mystery & Hammer fans .
Good documentary spoilt slightly by poor presentation .	The Wicker Man Enigma is a 35 minute-ish documentary that features on quite a few DVD editions of the classic horror film The Wicker Man ( 1973 ) , as far as these sorts of documentary's go it's a good ' un . A lot of the films production team are featured in the documentary , from the director & writer to the stars . It's basically a chronological story in which the cast & crew detail the making of the film & it's distribution problems starting with writer Anthony Shaffer who goes into the inspiration behind the film saying that he wanted to write a horror film but something significantly different from the likes of what Hammer studios were churning out . Various people talk about the making of the film & there's a neat montage here of locations from the film as they were in 2000 , I'd have said as they are now but this documentary was made 7 years ago & it's not unreasonable to think the locations might have significantly changed again . Christopher Lee again claims that he got paid nothing for making The Wicker Man & he still has his contract to prove it . Then it goes into the problems they had with the distributors & that the head of EMI told Christopher Lee it was one of the ten worst films he'd ever seen , it had chunks edited out of it & placed on a double bill with Don't Look now ( 1973 ) which the company also hated . Then there's the tragic story of how all the negatives , cut footage & outtakes were buried under the M3 by mistake before it goes on to discuss how the film is thought of these days & it's ' revival ' . Now , The Wicker Man Enigma would have been a great documentary as it's very informative , the interviewees speak freely & it's not a back patting self congratulatory promotional piece if not for the bizarre presentation . We have all seen films in widescreen on our TV's where there are black bars at the top & bottom of the screen which is fine but on The Wicker Man Enigma there are horrible distracting black bars on all four sides of the frame , why is the question I ask here , why ? It's almost like there's a TV ' within ' your TV & I am at a loss to see why the makers put a huge black frame around the picture , I personally found it irritating beyond belief but there you go . Overall this is a great documentary but why the black frame ? It's a very odd film-making decision & it bugged me more & more as time went by , I suppose it's a small grumble though when you consider it's a free extra on a DVD . Definitely worth a watch if your a fan of the film .
" Small town's are like people , some grow old & die a natural death , some get murdered . " Enjoyable sequel , & a decent film in it's own right .	Phantasm II sees Mike ( James LeGros ) now residing in ' Morningside Psychiatric Clinic ' after his tales of the Tall Man ( Angus Scrimm ) & mutant midgets fail to explain & convince the authorities why his friend Reggie's ( Reggie Bannister ) house was blown to pieces during the opening sequence . After 7 long years & lots of lying to the Doctors Mike is set free & immediately heads for the nearest graveyard where he discovers that all the bodies have been dug up & stolen & the prime suspect is the Tall Man . Mike also meets back up with Reggie who then invites Mike back to his ( new ) house to meet his family , unfortunately as they approach Reggie's house explodes , again . Since Mike is a bit of a psychic he knows that the Tall Man was responsible so he teams up with Reggie to track him down & put an end to his corpse stealing , mutant slave midget creating & murdering ways . Oh , & they would probably like to stop him blowing anymore of Reggie's homes & family members up too . They eventually track him down to a small town in Oregon called Perigord where he is in the middle of wiping out the entire town , together with a hitchhiker named Alchemy ( Samantha Phillips ) & an attractive woman named Liz ( Paula Irvine ) who both feature heavily in Mike's psychic visions he sets out for a final showdown to the death . . . Written & directed by Don Coscarelli this , the second of four Phantasm films so far , is probably as good as the series gets . The script is fast paced ( not one but two house's are blown up within the first 15 minutes ) , never boring or dull & doesn't seem to treat itself too seriously which considering the overall silliness of it is a good thing . The character's aren't developed that much & are a little one-dimensional but they just about come across as likable enough for us to care about them . Phantasm II feels very 80's with everything done to excess , the car they drive around in , the over-the-top weapons they construct like the home made flamethrower & the double double barrelled ( or maybe that should be quadruple barrelled ) sawn off shotgun ( wouldn't the recoil alone break your arm ? ) , a chainsaw fight , lots more make-up effects than the original & , of course , the hairdo's . I'm not sure about the psychic stuff & if the Tall Man can make a house explode why can't he just , for example , make the car that Reggie & Mike are driving in explode ? I liked the idea that the Tall Man travels across America robbing small town's of the contents of their graveyard's & as a whole the film worked well & has a certain engaging narrative . Director Coscarelli piles on the atmosphere & manages to film some cool horror sequences , the death of Father Meyers ( Kenneth Tigar ) by the series trademark silver sphere is memorable as it slices his ear off then drills into his forehead & there is a creepy scene when a worm like creature emerges from someones back & starts to talk . The girls look nice & even nicer without their tops on as we get a fair amount of nudity , in terms of gore there is the aforementioned death of Father Meyers , a sphere impales someones hand forcing them to chop it off with an axe & one works itself into someone's back & semi exit through their mouth , people are burned alive , embalmed with acid , a rat is blown to pieces & some unlucky guy has a chainsaw shoved between his legs , ouch . Made for about $3 , 000 , 000 Phantasm II easily has the biggest budget of the series , technically it shows with a very well made solid film throughout with some neat special effects , nice cinematography , good music & better than expected production values . The acting is OK but then again look at what these people had to work with , on a side note apparently according to the IMDb's ' Trivia ' section Brad Pitt auditioned for the role of Mike . . . I liked Phantasm II , sure it's silly & ultimately isn't going to change anyone's life but it is entertaining & fun & as far as I'm concerned that's the only reasons I watch films , to have fun & be entertained . There are much worse ways to spend 90 odd minutes , definitely worth a watch .
I rather liked it .	Slaughter High starts like any other day at Doddsville County High School where little minx Carol Manning ( Caroline Munro ) has tricked resident nerd Marty Rantzen ( Simon Scuddamore ) into the girls locker rooms where she tells him to get undressed in the shower , while doing so Carol's gang of friends come in & give the now naked Marty a big surprise as they film him as they stick his head down the girls toilet in an April fool's day joke . The school's sports coach ( Marc Smith ) saves Marty & punishes the gang who rather harshly blame Marty , they decide to play another trick on him only this time things get out of hand & Marty is caught in an explosion & has nitric acid splashed over his face . Years later & the whole gang are invited to a class reunion at the now closed down school , they all arrive to discover they are the only ones there . They all venture inside where they quickly learn they aren't the only ones there as Marty is back & has revenge on his mind . . . Originally shot under the title April Fool's Day which they changed probably because of another slasher film named April Fool's Day ( 1986 ) made the same year this American English co-production is unusual in that it has three credited writers & directors , George Dugdale , Mark Ezra & Peter Litten ( after never seeing a film with three credited director's I've now seen two in a week the other being the Jean-Claude Van Damme flick Kickboxer ( 1989 ) ) & I have to say I really rather liked Slaughter High even though it seems to have a pretty bad reputation . One of the things I like about the script is that it is a pure unashamed slasher flick , it doesn't try to be anything else & it just accepts the genres rules , short comings & trappings & plays up to them . Basically it delivers what it promises , a homicidal killer , blood , boobs & babes . I thought the character's were alright , the story was OK even though it's just an excuse to get a load of teens inside an isolated location so some killer can bump them off one at a time & I actually liked the twist ending as well which is also something for which Slaughter High gets a lot of flak for . The first half starts off a little slow but the second half moves along at a rate of knots as there is one gory killing after another . Some of the situations & character reactions make little sense but the same can be said of just about any film ever made so who's complaining ? Despite three credited director's Slaughter High turned out pretty good , I liked the look of the film a lot . The isolated rundown school made for a really atmospheric location & looked good , the makers throw in a good thunderstorm as well & there's some nice photography especially at the end where there are numerous impressive uninterrupted long lasting stedicam tracking shots which follow Carol through various corridors of the rundown school . While not particularly stylish it certainly looks nice enough & is professionally made . There is some good gore here including burnt bodies , people melted with acid , impalings , stomach explosions , axes in faces & death by lawnmower as well as someone who gets drowned in fecal matter down a drain ! The special effects are also better than one would expect & I was both impressed & pleased with the higher than expected body count . Technically the film is better than I had expected & beats most low budget horror crap that gets released today , I would have thought it was relatively low budget itself though . Supposedly set in America this was very obviously shot in England . Harry Manfredini composes another score which sounds exactly like all of his other musical scores & is basically the same as the theme from Friday the 13th ( 1980 ) & it's sequels . Anyone living here in the UK will probably recognise Billy Hartman who played Frank as a regular in Emmerdale Farm ( one of our nations top rated soap operas ) in which he plays Terry Woods ! While most horror fans will recognise the sexy Caroline Munro in a rare staring role . Legendary exploitation producer Dick Randall did the deed on Slaughter High & actually appears in the film as a porno movie producer . . . talk about typecasting ! You can also see a poster for the misunderstood brilliance that was Pieces ( 1982 ) which he also produced behind him in his office . Slaughter High is a slasher film that I liked a lot , did you see that ? I didn't say it was great I actually said I liked it on a personal level & I'm sure the predictable plot & lack of story will probably put many off so I can't recommend it but I can say I liked it , make of that what you want . Make sure you you watch the uncut version if you ever decide you want to check it out . If your not a fan of the slasher flick genre then Slaughter High won't change your mind but if your looking for a simple & effective slasher then you could do a lot worse than this .
Surprisingly good fun .	Slaughter Studios starts as an actor named Justin is shot & killed on the set of his latest film , was it an accident or something more sinister ? Either way Slaughter Studios has remained unused & empty ever since . . . Jump forward 20 years & aspiring low budget horror filmmaker Steve ( Peter Stanovich ) is going to break into Slaughter Studios & use the unused but still intact stages for his latest project . To help him he has assembled a crew of friends , production assistant Madigan ( Amy Shelton-White ) , Gary ( Matthew J . Roseman ) the cameraman , Ollie ( Anand Chulani ) the sound-man , & his cast of actors , Kevin ( Nicolas Reed ) , Chad ( Darren Reiher ) , goth babe Trisha ( Eva Frajko ) , Rebecca ( Laura Oatis ) , Darlene ( Serra Ellison ) , Candace ( Lorissa McComas ) & Portia ( Tara Killian ) . Together they break into the abandoned Slaugher Studios & get to work , however it appears that they are not alone as a killer stalks the corridors of the once busy studio . . . Edited & directed by Brian Katkin I really liked Slaughter Studios . On paper the script by Dan Acre & John Huckert looks pretty lousy , a horror comedy about a bunch of annoying teenagers being killed by a mysterious killer but in fact Slaughter Studios turned out to be a really likable & decent film . I hated Ollie but I found the rest of the character's very likable & were quite funny with some nice witty dialogue . The whole film-within-a-film , Blair Witch Project ( 1999 ) anyone ? , has been done before but Slaughter Studios incorporates it really well & the whole self referential jokes & mickey taking is done with a certain affection for the genre . There are a few good laughs here including a pretty funny farting in a tent gag ! I really liked the ending as well , I definitely wasn't expecting it & was both a clever & satisfying way to round the film off . Slaughter Studios never takes itself seriously , it moves along at a fair pace & is never boring or dull & makes for good entertainment . Don't get me wrong as it's far from a masterpiece but believe me you could do a hell of a lot worse than Slaughter Studios when you compare it to the straight-to-video crap that litter video shop shelves these days . Director Katkin does an impressive job , the lighting is excellent with bright neon greens , blues & reds along side the dark shadowy corners . The film looks great throughout & only the cheap looking digital video used to shoot it on gives it's low budget away . There is plenty of nudity , some lesbianism including a funny exchange of dialogue with the director convincing Portia that going nude & participating in acts if lesbianism would make her a better actress ! The gore isn't so plentiful , a pick-axe in someones stomach , someones throat is cut with some film & someone has a pitchfork stuck through them & there's a decapitated head . With a supposed budget of about $50 , 000 the filmmakers have worked absolute miracles . Slaughter Studios went straight-to-video but looks really good from start to finish & they obviously made that $50 , 000 go a long way . The acting varies , Chulani is absolutely awful . Frajko as the goth bird Trisha is a bit of a babe & really easy on the eyes . Slaughter Studios surprised me , a lot . I thought it was a highly entertaining & funny spoof comedy horror slasher . As a horror film fan you have to be able to take a chance on a film you've never heard of that will in all likelihood turn out to be complete & utter crap , most low budget straight-to-video horror films fall into this category . But once in a while you are rewarded with a bit of an unexpected gem & Slaughter Studios was just such an occasion for me , definitely worth a watch .
Monsters does a tearjerker .	Monsters : Glim-Glim is set in a small town where an alien spaceship has crash landed , the whole population has died because of a deadly virus except Carl ( Brian Fitzpatrick ) , a loving father ( Mark Hofmaier ) & his young daughter Amy ( Jenna von Oÿ ) . The only place in town with heating & electricity is the library so they break in & seek shelter in the basement but above them in the library itself the alien from the spaceship has also taken refuge . Carl thinks the alien has hostile intentions while Amy doesn't & names it Glim-Glim , who is right , what does the alien want & will the three survivors make it out of town alive ? Episode thirteen from season one of Monsters this originally aired in the US during February 1989 , directed by Peter Michael Sloan this is perhaps the saddest Monsters episode & you would need to have a heart made of stone not to feel a little tiny bit sad at the end for the little girl Amy & what has just happened . The script starts off like an alien invasion film as we learn a spaceship landed in town & all the townsfolk are now dead bar three survivors but soon turns into something about friendship , learning to see past initial impressions & below the surface as it were & of course looking past something or someones appearance which could be said to be an attack on racism if you really wanted to find some sort of deep meaningful message here . It's all of those things I suppose & a very well written & acted programme too that does entertain , that can be quite creepy during the first half as the mystery builds & surprisingly emotional at the end . For those that have seen it & know the end don't you think Glim-Glim would have been great as a Christmas special ? As with most Monsters episodes there's a monster in Glim-Glim & it's obviously the alien , unfortunately it looks pretty poor & is maybe best described as a giant green pear with four eyes , four tentacled arms & no legs or feet . To be honest it wouldn't look out of place in a 50's sci-fi film . Unusually for Monsters there's a bit of gore here as a decapitated head is seen on a chair in a quite gory moment which is at odds with the rest of the episode really . The acting is good which probably makes this episode work so well especially the cute little girl whom it's very hard not to feel sorry for at the end . Glim-Glim is another great episode of Monsters that in twenty short minutes manages to tell a meaningful & sometimes oddly emotional story on a low budget & features an alien which looks like a giant green pear , what more do you want ?
" Gatlin ! What ? Do they have a monopoly on road signs ? " One of the better King adaptations ? I think so . . .	Children of the Corn starts in ' Gatlin , Nebraska Three Years Ago ' where , suddenly & without warning , the town's children brutally kill all the adults seemingly orchestrated by a creepy young preacher boy named Isaac ( John Franklin ) . . . The film then switches to the ' Present Day ' as lovers Burton Stanton ( Peter Horton ) & Vicky Baxter ( Linda Hamilton ) are on a long journey through the middle of nowhere when a teenage boy named Joseph ( Jonas Marlowe ) stumbles out into the road , Burt cannot stop in time & hits him head on . Burt & Vicky rush to help but find him already dead & even worse he has had his throat cut . They decide to head to the nearest town & report the incident , the nearest town being Gatlin . Once there they discover the place totally deserted , in a state of ruin & corn lying around everywhere . The also quickly discover that Isaac has created his own religious cult by convincing all the town's children to worship a god known as ' He Who Walk's Behind the Rows ' where adults are offered as sacrifices . Isaac says that Burt & Vicky will do nicely , he sends the murderous Malachai ( Courtney Gains ) & the rest of the children to get them , however not all the children in Gatlin believe Isaac & young siblings Job ( Robby Kiger ) & Sarah ( Anne Marie McEvoy ) set out to try & help the stranded couple . . . Directed by Fritz Kiersch & despite it's bad reputation I actually rather liked Children of the Corn . The script by George Goldsmith is based on a short story ( about 15 pages long ) by Stephen King , although I have not read it so I cannot compare the two , & while it goes round in circles a bit I though it was effective enough . The film moves along at a nice pace although during the middle not much seems to happen & that's probably where the padding comes in to stretch the film out to 90 odd minutes . I really like the basic story of children turning against adults & setting up their own religion but the film doesn't go into much depth like for instance at the beginning when the children start to kill the adults I was asking myself what could a freaky looking kid say to everyone to get them to murder their parents , alas it is never explained . Neither do we actually get to see ' He Who Walk's Behind the Rows ' , I guess it's supposed to be some sort of demonic creature as it burrows under the ground . I did like how it builds up & tries to retain some mysterious elements & for some reason Children of the Corn is just one of those films that I enjoyed but don't quite know why , overall in my eyes it just added up to more than the sum of it's parts . Director Kiersch does a good job here & gives the film a great atmosphere of isolation & eeriness , there was just something about the whole idea & notion that unsettled me a little bit I mean any film that can make a corn field seem creepy is doing something right . While Children of the Corn doesn't have fantastic style to it there are some impressive scenes like the opening massacre , when Joesph is run down & it has that nice unique horror feel throughout & I especially like the shots of the children armed with various dangerous looking farming tools like hooks , scythes , pitchforks & machetes . Disappointingly the violence & gore is somewhat restrained with only a few slit throats , some splattered blood , a few stab & cut wounds & a rotten corpse . With a supposed budget of about $3 , 000 , 000 Children of the Corn is technically an accomplished film with good photography , decent enough special effects although don't expect the latest CGI & it has good solid production values throughout . A special mention for the music by Jonathan Elias which I found particularly good & moody . The acting is pretty good by everyone , Hamilton & Horton do OK & surprisingly the children didn't annoy me as much as child actors usually do & where did they find Malachai & Isaac ? They are two freaky & creepy looking kids , well their adults now obviously . I liked Children of the Corn , it seems to get a lot of stick which I can understand I suppose but films are all about personal opinion & I'm going to stand by mine . I think it's definitely worth a watch & at least it's ten times better than the adaptation of King's Graveyard Shift ( 1990 ) , isn't it ?
Really smart & enjoyable thriller .	Phone Booth is set in New York where Stu Shepard ( Colin Farell ) lives & works as a celebrity publicist , Stu calls a girl named Pamela ( Katie Holmes ) who he is stringing along from the last public phone booth in New York on the north side of West 53rd Street between Broadway & 8th Avenue . When done he puts the phone down but it starts to ring as he is about to leave the booth , curious Stu picks it up only to discover some real psycho on the other end ( Kiefer Sutherland ) who has a high powered sniper rifle aimed right at him & will kill him or an innocent bystander unless he does exactly what he wants . . . Directed by Joel Schumacher I have to admit that against all expectations I thought Phone Booth was a great thriller . It's Larry Cohen's smart fast moving & original feeling script which is the films main strength , set almost entirely in one location the premise which revolves around a guy stuck in a phone booth doesn't initially sound that promising but the script is really absorbing & pulls you into the intense situation Farell's character finds himself in which plays out during the film in real time like the TV series 24 ( 2001 ) . It manages to have a swipe at the media & the police while it makes you question just who is the bad guy , I mean Sutherland's character is obviously doing wrong but he's doing it with good intentions . At less than 80 minutes in length the time flies by , it never lets up for a second & once it has you hooked on the interesting premise it doesn't let you go right until the very end & even then you'll still be thinking about the ending as the end credits roll . The character's are very well written , the situation is maybe a little silly & one could debate that it would be virtually impossible to emulate in reality . A much better film than I had expected & a really smart little thriller that'll pass 80 odd minutes like they were 80 odd seconds . Director Schumacher goes for sped up scenes , split screen techniques so more than one person can be seen on screen at once & goes for a bleached look as the film has a blue washed out tint throughout . There's also a really cool opening & closing sequence which show's what you can do with CGI computer effects if they are done properly . Apparently the film was shot pretty much in sequence & took a meagre 12 days to shoot overall . According the IMDb's ' Trivia Section ' the sniper was originally played by Ron Eldrad but was replaced by Sutherland in re-shoots . With a modest sounding $10 , 000 , 000 budget ( it made something like 15 million on it's opening weekend ) this is well made essentially in the same location , shot on location in New York & in Los Angeles . The likes of Will Smith , Mel Gibson & Jim Carrey were all attached to Phone Booth at one point or another but I think it works well with a relatively low key unknown cast . Phone Booth is a really cool fast paced thriller that I enjoyed immensely , it's short , smart , gripping & original . I was impressed , very impressed .
I rather liked it .	Hammer House of Horror : Witching Time is set in rural England on Woodstock farm where stressed musician David Winter ( Jon Finch ) lives with his actress wife Mary ( Prunella Gee ) & is currently composing the music for a horror film . One night while looking for his dog Billy David finds a mysterious woman in his barn , calling herself Lucinda Jessop ( Patricia Quinn ) she claims to be a witch who has transported herself from 300 years in the past to now . Obviously rather sceptical David has a hard time believing her so he locks her in a room in his farmhouse & calls his doctor Charles ( Ian McCulloch ) to come examine her , however once he arrives & they enter the room Lucinda has disappeared . Charles puts it down to David drinking too much but over the next few day strange & disturbing things begin to happen to David & Mary . . . Witching Time was episode 1 from the short lived British anthology horror series produced by Hammer studios for TV & originally aired here in the UK during September 1980 , the first of two Hammer House of Horror episodes to be directed by Don Leaver ( episode 13 The Mark of Satan being the other ) I actually rather liked this . As a series Hammer House of Horror dealt with various different themes & were all unconnected to each other except in name & unsurprisingly Watching Time is a sinister & effective little tale about a witch , the script by Anthony Read benefits from it's slight 50 odd minute duration & moves along at a nice pace . The character's are pretty good as is the dialogue , there are some nice scenes here & I liked the way it never quite reveals whether David & Mary are going crazy or not . I think it's a well structured , entertaining & reasonably creepy horror themed TV show that I enjoyed more than I thought I would . Being made for British TV meant the boys at Hammer had a lower budget than usual , if that was even possible , & as such there is no gorgeous period settings here as in their most well know Frankenstein & Dracula films although the contemporary English setting does give it a certain atmosphere that you can relate to a bit more . Another TV based restriction is that the exploitation levels are lower than you might hope for , there's some nudity & gore but not much although I didn't mind too much as the story here is pretty good . It's well made for what it is & Hammer's experience on their feature films probably helped make these look pretty good , the acting is good as well with genre favourite Ian McCulloch making a bit-part appearance . Witching Time is a good start to the Hammer House of Horror series , as a 50 minute piece of British TV it's pretty damned good , now why don't they make show's like this over here anymore ?
Surprisingly effective horror flick .	Bad Dreams starts in the 70's where the Unity Fields cult , who believe in a perfect society created by love & trust , lead by a nutter called Harris ( Richard Lynch ) decide to make the ultimate sacrifice & commit suicide together . Except that is for a girl named Cynthia ( Jennifer Rubin ) who understandably isn't too keen on the idea , so while all the Unity Fields members are burning she manages to escape & is saved by the local emergency services . Jump forward thirteen years later & Cynthia wakes from a coma she has been in for all those years , having to adjust to late 80's culture & come to terms with the situation she is put under the care of psychiatrist Dr . Berrisford ( Harris Yulin ) & his assistant Dr . Karmen ( Bruce Abbott ) & regularly take part in therapy sessions . However it's not long before her old cult leader Harris comes back from beyond the grave to claim her & reunite her with those who sacrificed themselves . . . Co-written & directed by Andrew Fleming when I sat down to watch this last night I had never heard of Bad Dreams before & thought it sounded like some recent cheap generic low budget shot on videotape horror flick & expected the worse , as the film started the 20th Century Fox film logo came up & my interest instantly peaked & I thought ' wow , a major Hollywood studio , this might be decent ' , the titles ran & I noticed a few familiar names like Bruce Abbott from the Re-Animator ( 1985 ) series of films , Gale Anne Hurd who produced a lot of James Cameron's films like The Terminator ( 1984 ) & Aliens ( 1986 ) produced it while Steven E . de Souza who had only a few years previously wrote the likes of 48 Hrs . ( 1982 ) , Commando ( 1985 ) & The Running Man ( 1987 ) co-wrote it in the same year he would write the absolute classic Die Hard ( 1988 ) so there was definitely some pedigree both in front & behind the camera here & it show's as Bad Dreams is a surprisingly little known decent horror flick . The script by Souza & Fleming borrows heavily from the A Nightmare on Elm Street series of films , a main villain who is burned & as a ghost comes back from beyond the grave to terrorise & kill people although one has to say despite the title he never turns up in people's dreams as he appears as a ghostly entity . The similarity with A Nightmmare on Elm Street 3 : Dream Warriors ( 1987 ) in particular is striking , the group of psychiatric patients fighting against a villain from beyond the grave , the doctors who won't believe them & the two films in general feel & look very alike . Then just when you think you have it all worked out as a simple Elm Street rip-off the film springs an effective if unlikely twist ending which comes out of nowhere & no reasonable explanation for it is given but it's certainly memorable . The character's are good , the dialogue is amusing & sharp , it moves along at a decent pace & there's one or two nicely gory set-pieces too . Much better than expected although I went into it with zero expectations so that wasn't exactly difficult . Director Fleming makes his directorial debut here ( his only other horror film of note would be The Craft ( 1996 ) ) & does a good job , the film looks nice enough with some nice sequences . The scene inside the Unity Fields house where everyone is set on fire is very effective & the special effects during this scene are also very good . There's some gore here , someone jumps out of a window & splats on the pavement below , someone slices their arms with scalpels & then stabs themselves in the stomach , there are burned faces , there's a ventilation system full of blood that spurts it out everywhere & there's a severed hand . With a very healthy sounding budget of about $4 , 000 , 000 this is well made with good production values & the special effects are impressive . The acting is good from a competent cast . Bad Dreams sounds like some cheap dull horror flick & at first it seems like an Elm Street film rip-off but it's more than that & once it's got you thinking you know exactly what's going to happen it springs a twist ending out of nowhere , I just wish it made a bit more sense . Definitely well worth a watch I reckon .
Great early 70's gore soaked Frankenstein film !	A good solid early seventies Frankenstein movie . It stars Udo Kier , who still turns up in movies today like blade and end of days , as baron Frankenstein whom creates two patch work people , a male and a female , from choice parts . The bits and pieces he use to create them need to be perfect because he wants the two to mate and produce a new race of perfect humans . As you would expect things don't go according to plan and it ends up as a blood bath where pretty much everyone dies . Sex , baroness Frankenstein played by Monique van Vooren and the stable-boy played by Joe Dallesandro see to that , gore , free flowing intestines and decapitated heads handle this side of things and black comedy are the main ingredients of this movie . Good production values help it . Nice locations , good photography and decent special make up fx make watching it easy on the eyes . The script is well written and as a result the film is never dull . Better in my opinion than the boring companion piece blood for Dracula that was shot at the same time using the same cast and crew . I liked it
" You'll meet someone , someone very special , someone who won't press charges . " Good sequel .	Addams Family Values starts with the news that Morticia ( Angelica Huston ) is about to give birth , she does & everyone including the Father Gomez ( Raul Julia ) are very excited . However their two children Wednesday ( Christina Ricci ) & Pugsley ( Jimmy Workman ) feel threatened by the new arrival & to add to the families problems Debbie ( Joan Cusak ) the nanny that they hire tricks Uncle Fester ( Christopher Lloyd ) into marrying her & she plan's to kill him for his money . . . Directed by Barry Sonnenfeld Addams Family Values is a worthy sequel to the original Addams Family ( 1991 ) & a good watch in it's own right . The script by Paul Rudnick takes the usual standard social situations & twisting them into a ghoulish gag , joke or set-piece & there's plenty here to smile at . While I didn't find any of it laugh out loud hilarious I found it consistently amusing , it runs for 90 odd minutes & it moves along at a nice pace , there's enough happening to keep one entertained for it's duration . All the usual character's are there & well represented , the dialogue is good & the story is also pretty good . Director Sonnenfeld does a good job , there's that fantastic morbid atmosphere running through the film & the Addams Gothic mansion looks the business . Technically the film is very well made & has great production design & it has that big budget Hollywood look about it . The acting was good & the cast bring the character's to life . Addams Family Values is a good film , it's pretty morbid when it wants to but it also has that dark comedic edge as well . What more can I say , it's well worth a watch .
" I hope there will be other movies like this , where we get to be very creative & imaginative & rip people's heads off . " In depth making-of featurette .	Inside the Federation is a 30 minute fairly in depth look at the production of Starship Troopers 2 : Hero of the Fedration ( 2004 ) & is widely available on the UK & Sateside DVD editions of the film . Everything you would expect from a promotional piece such as this is here , the director Phil Tippett discusses the film , the special effects , the writing , the rushed production schedule & the various other crew-members involved . Writer Ed Neumeier talks about his ideas behind the script while the likes of the production designer , special effects people & the producer all feature . A large number of the cast also share their thoughts & feelings . There are a few interesting moments like the film was shot in 26 days in two studios & filming with high definition video instead of film . Unfortunately , for most of it's duration , this is very much one of those promotional ' wasn't he / she , the script , the special effects etc . brilliant ' type affairs as virtually everyone gets a big pat on the back from everyone else . There are numerous behind-the-scenes on set footage , rough uncompleted special effect's scenes to demonstrate the process of how they were achieved & lots of relevant clips from the finished film to illustrate certain points made by the interviewees . Inside the Federation is one of the better featurette's out there ( although having said that I usually can't be bothered to watch them ) that I have seen but I maybe would have liked everyone to have been a bit more forthright & less concerned with sucking up to everyone else .
" The instruments that save life are hardly more pleasant to look at than those that take it . " Solid Holmes mystery .	Sherlock Holmes Faces Death starts in Northumberland at a pub called ' The Rat and the Raven ' as the landlord ( Harold De Becker ) tells two sailors ( Peter Lawford & Eric Snowden ) to stay away from the eerie ' Musgrave Manor ' to which several ghost stories & dark legends are attached . Recently Musgrave Manor has been converted into a convalescence home for soldiers where Dr . John Watson ( Nigel Bruce ) is helping look after the patients . One dark night Dr . Watson's assistant Dr . Bob Sexton ( Arthur Margetson ) stumbles in with a bad neck wound having been attacked by someone outside . Dr . Watson travels to London & ask's his friend the world's foremost detective Sherlock Holmes ( Basil Rathbone ) to investigate , upon arriving at Musgrave Manor Holmes finds the body of the current ( well , ex owner now I suppose ) owner Geoffrey Musgrave ( Frederick Worlock ) & Inspector Lestrade ( Dennis Hoey ) of Scotland Yard who is looking into the attack on Dr . Sexton . The next Musgrove in line to inherit the estate is Sally ( Hillary Brooke ) who has to recite an old family poem which may mean more than it at first appears , it's not long before another Musgrave , Phillip ( Gavin Muir ) is found murdered & Holmes has little to go on except a long list of potential suspects in his attempts to bring the killer to justice . . . Produced & directed by Roy William Neil Sherlock Homes Faces Death was the sixth Holmes film out of fourteen featuring the duo of Rathbone & Bruce as Holmes & Watson made between 1939 & 1944 . The script by Bertram Millhauser based on the novel ' The Musgrave Ritual ' by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle is fast paced , interesting , suitably mysterious with plenty of suspects & motives while it also manages to involve & grip the viewer which is essential . The usual horror overtones are present as well with cobweb strewn crypts , ancient rituals , legends & a creepy dark old mansion with lots of secret passages . The mystery elements work well as the killer or their motives aren't at first obvious & it managed to captivate me to the extent where I wanted to know the killers identity . I really liked some of the ideas present too , I especially liked the way a tiled floor was used as a chess board & was used to play a game of chess that help unravel the mystery . I thought the twists in the climax also worked well & showed some imagination . The character's are good with plenty of suspects & motives flying about , although I could have done without Lestrade & his comedy relief moments . There is one silly bit as I'm not too sure the police would release a murder victim's body so that the Musgrave's could perform a family ritual over it , would they ? Director William Neil manages to pour on the atmosphere & films it almost like a horror in parts , the isolated creepy mansion , the woods , dark basements & crypts , rituals over dead bodies & of course the obligatory violent thunder storm . Technically Sherlock Holmes Faces Death is a very solid film throughout & well made considering the era that it comes from . The period setting ( as in the period it was made ) looks great & adds a nice feel to it , the black and white photography is fine & as a whole the production values are good . The acting was a little wooden & I'm not that convinced by Rathbone ( isn't that such a great sounding name ? ) as Holmes , I still prefer Jeremy Brett . Bruce as Watson seems to be there for laughs . I like a good Sherlock Holmes mystery & this one ain't bad at all , anyone who feels the same as me should check it out & it would also probably appeal to those who enjoy a good murder mystery who dun-nit . I think it's well worth a watch & don't let it's age & the fact that it's black and white put you off .
" Am I not the spawn of his depraved blood ? " Impressive 60's Edgar Allan Poe adaptation from Roger Corman .	Pit and the Pendulum ( there is no ' The ' at the beginning of the on screen title ) starts in 1546 somewhere in Spain . Francis Barnard ( John Kerr ) has travelled from England to investigate his sister Elizabeth's ( Barbara Steele ) sudden death . Francis arrives at a large foreboding mist enshrouded castle that sits on top of a cliff overlooking the ocean & belongs to Elizabeth's husband , Nicholas Medina ( Vincent Price ) . Francis knocks the door and Maximillian ( Patrick Westwood ) the butler answers . Nicholas's sister Catherine Medina ( Luana Anders ) also turns up and invites Francis in . Nicholas tells Francis that Elizabeth died unexpectedly three months ago from a condition of the blood . Francis is unimpressed by Nicholas's explanations and feels he is not being told the truth . The only other person in the castle at this point is the maid , Maria ( Lynette Bernay ) . At dinner that night Dr . Charles Leon ( Antony Carbone ) turns up . His side of events differ from Nicolas's . Leon claims that Elizabeth died from sheer fright as she became obsessed with a torture chamber situated in the bowls of the castle that belonged to Sebastian Medina ( Vincent Price , again ) , Nicolas's Father who was one of the most cruel and feared members of the Spanish Inquisition . Catherine's body has been resting in the Medina's families tomb for months but the distraught Nicholas fears that Catherine may have been buried alive , like his Mother . Strange occurrences start to happen , whispering voices & unexplained incidents that suggest Nicholas may be right and somehow Catherine has returned for revenge ! As the night draws on the sinister goings-on are revealed as a thunder storm rages outside , but can anyone survive the ultimate terror of the Pit and the Pendulum ! ? Produced and directed by Roger Corman I was pretty impressed with this adaptation of the Edgar Allan Poe novel of the same name . Pit and the Pendulum was the second of Corman's Poe adaptations coming after the House of Usher ( 1960 ) & before Premature Burial ( 1962 ) . The script by Richard Matheson effectively mixes haunted house horror & psychological terror with a satisfying twist ending . An ending that may not come quite as much of a surprise these days but is still very good all the same . I also loved the final ' poetic justice ' shot . There aren't many characters in the film but the ones there count . The acting is good all round but I did think Price went over the top a little at certain points , although one could argue that this was deliberate and was intended to be relevant to the twist ending . Having said that I wouldn't want any other actor but Price in the role . Forget about blood or gore as there isn't any , but don't let this put you off as a horror film doesn't have to be gory or violent to be good . One thing about Pit and the Pendulum that really stands out is the overall production design , sets , costumes and lighting . The film has a wonderful Gothic look throughout . The castle's cobweb strewn torture chamber , or it's gloomy flickering candle lit rooms and corridors with it's stonework walls . The solid antique looking furniture and props . The whole film is lavish and really looks the part , the evocative sets create half of the wonderful atmosphere on their own . Quite amazing considering that the budget was apparently only $200 , 000 which probably wasn't a lot even back in 1961 . Generally speaking the film is also well made throughout and at just under 80 minutes it never drags and is consistently both interesting & entertaining . On the negative side I'm not too sure I would watch it again now I know the twist ending and when all said and done not a great deal actually happens . But it's still a great character and plot driven Gothic horror / thriller from the early 60's that stands up very well even today & should be seen by all fans of the genre , so what are you waiting for ? Watch it !
An interesting film .	Alien Nation is set in Los Angeles several years after we make contact with a genetically engineered race of slave aliens whose spaceship has landed in the Mojave desert during 1989 & cannot take off again , these humanoid shaped aliens known as Newcomers are given the same rights as any human being & start to live & form a community in Los Angeles alongside us humans . Detective Sergeant Matthew Sykes ( James Caan ) & his partner Detective Bill Tuggle ( Roger Aaron Brwon ) stumble upon an armed robbery involving several Newcomers , during a shoot-out Tuggle is shot dead by a Newcomer . Determined to find his partner's killer Sykes volunteers to partner the first Newcomer ( Mandy Patinkin ) to make detective & use him for his own vendetta . However the situation becomes critical when the mismatched duo discover a prominent Newcomer named William Harcourt ( Terence Stamp ) making & selling a dangerous drug that is as addictive to Newcomers as Heroin is to us . . . Directed by Graham Baker this is an odd film that on the one hand is so clichéd it's untrue but on the other feels like no other film I have ever seen . The script by Rockne S . O'Bannon at first glance would pass for a generic Lethal Weapon ( 1987 ) or any other buddy buddy cop film rip-off , the two films are incredibly similar including the mismatched partner's ( one of whom gives the ' we ain't pal's or friends ' line to begin with ) , the plot revolving around drugs is almost identical to Lethal Weapon , there's a car chase at the end , the final bad guy confrontation , the two partner's using their unique styles to question suspects , the fact that one hates the other at first but then grow's a mutual respect for them by the end & if you take away the sci-fi alien aspect of Alien Nation then the two films are virtually identical . However what saves Alien nation is that sci-fi element , in Lethal Weaopn there were racial tensions because of differing ethnicity but here in Alien Nation the idea is taken to the absolute limit as having two cops teamed up who aren't even members of the same species ! This is where most of the interest in Alien Nation comes from , there are some really good character driven scenes including Sykes trying to tell a joke to his partner or explain what a condom is for instance while his Newcomer partner tries to present his people's side of the situation . This angle of the film isn't as deep or throughly explored as it might have been but that's another reason I like Alien Nation , all the obvious allergies to racial hatred & tension aren't too heavy handed , too forced , preachy or totally drown out the thriller aspects of the film . Director Baker does an OK job here , he keeps things moving along at a decent pace although I'd have liked a bit more sci-fi in it . I mean the film isn't even set in the future & as such it has dated a little bit . There's a pretty cool car chase at the end & a couple of good shoot-outs but the appearance of an alien monster at the end felt a little out of odds with the rest of it . The alien make-up is OK if a little unimaginative , they just look like bald people with a mottled pattern on their scalps . I am not sure about this but apparently there are two versions of Alien Nation floating around , one with subtitles for when the Newcomers speak in their own language & one without the subtitles . I saw the version without subtitles & it did get quite annoying not understanding what they were saying to each other . The original musical score for Alien Nation composed by Oscar winner Jerry Goldsmith was rejected in post production for being ' too weird ' even though it was complete to be replaced by the Curt Sobel soundtrack now heard on the final edit . With a supposed budget of about $16 , 000 , 000 Alien Nation didn't have a huge budget but it does look good with good production values , special effects & Los Angeles location filming . The acting is good especially from James Caan who is great in this ( did he have his gas cut off in the end ? ) while Terence Stamp is unrecognisable under all the make-up . Alien Nation is an odd film since it is so clichéd & by the numbers except the alien angle which really does transform it from an average buddy buddy cop film to a throughly decent sci-fi thriller . Followed by the Alien Nation ( 1989 ) TV series which ran for twenty three episodes & the made-for-TV film Alien Nation ( 1989 ) before another five made-for-TV films including Alien Nation : Dark Horizon ( 1994 ) , Alien Nation : Body and Soul ( 1995 ) , Alien Nation : Millennium ( 1996 ) , Alien Nation : The Enemy Within ( 1996 ) & finally Alien Nation : The Udara Legacy ( 1997 ) seem to have rounded things off .
Fascinating biopic of the notorious serial killer .	Ted Bundy starts in Seattle 1974 where failed law school student Ted Bundy ( Michael Reilly Burke ) is studying psychology , at first glance he seems a nice enough guy who has a girlfriend Lee ( Boti Bliss ) who loves him . However in reality he is a deviant sexual predator who quickly graduates from masturbating outside girls bedrooms to breaking into homes , beating , raping & murdering young women . Eventually Bundy decides to pack up & move on to Salt Lake City in 1975 & he continues his killing spree on the way . After a failed attempt to kidnap a young girl Bundy is caught & tired for his crimes where while in prison he studies law in order to defend himself . . . This English American co-production was co-written & directed by Matthew Bright & by all accounts is an extremely faithful dramatisation of the life & times of notorious real life American serial killer Ted Bundy , or at least as faithful as it could be considering Bundy is now dead & ultimately he was the only person who really knew for sure . The script by Bright & Stephen Johnston starts at the ( generally accepted ) beginning of Bundy's killing spree during 1974 & tells the story of Ted Bundy right up until he was executed by electric chair in 1989 although there are obviously large gaps here as the film tends to focus on major events . Told almost exclusively from the point of view of Bundy himself I think the female character who says that the ' motivation & psychology behind a murderer is fascinating ' is absolutely right because it is , there's just something very compelling watching Ted Bundy knowing that the central character was a real guy , the crimes depicted in Ted Bundy actually happened & to most of us we are intrigued as to what would make someone commit such heinous crimes . The film is apparently very accurate to the events which happened , from his early days as a petty thief to tricking girls with a fake cast on his arm to his escape from jail & his eventual execution . I think the only major change is that all of the victims names have been changed , presumably as a mark of respect for the family & friends . One of the frightening things about Ted Bundy is that he actually comes across as quite a charismatic & likable guy especially at the start of the film which again in reality people say he was . According to the end credits the term ' serial killer ' was actually coined to describe Bundy . No-one knows exactly how many people Bundy killed , he confessed to killing thirty people but some say the total may be higher although he was only convicted of murdering four before his execution . The film starts out like a black comedy with Bundy stealing a huge pot plant & stuffing it in his car before driving away with it sticking out of his passenger window but things soon turn a lot grimmer . While not the most graphic of films it can be fairly disturbing at times , the scene when he stabs a woman , rapes her & when she comes round he knocks her out so he can finish raping her before beating her to death with a brick all while another female victim looks on tied up . The film follows Bundy around & every so often he rapes & kills someone , there's no real build up to these scenes as one might see in a teen slasher & the film is played very straight in a very matter of fact sort of way . With a supposed budget of about $1 , 200 , 000 Ted Bundy is well made , the 70's period production values are good & the film looks nice enough although not overly flashy . Real newsreel footage was used during several points , during a montage of his crime spree & how it was reported , courtroom footage of the judge sentencing Bundy to death & footage of people waiting outside the Florida prison for his execution complete with pro execution banners . Although set in Seattle , Utah , Salt Lake City , Colorado & Florida the film was shot in & around Los Angeles in California . The acting is good with a fine performance from Burke as Bundy while genre actress Tiffany Shepis actually tries to act for once & special make-up effects man Tom Savini has a small cameo as a cop . Ted Bundy is a strangely compelling & often fascinating real life biopic of Ted Bundy & his crimes , I am not sure whether you should be entertained by it or whether the likes of Bundy should have films made about them but I did like it & thought it was well put together .
Hammer's most widely known film .	Dracula starts on the 3rd May , 1885 just outside the small Romanian village of Klausenberg as Vampire hunter Jonathan Harker ( John Van Eyssen ) arrives at Castle Dracula , there he is greeted & welcomed by Count Dracula ( Christopher Lee ) . Harker tries to kill Dracula but fails , ten days later Harker's body & diary are found by his friend Doctor Van Helsing ( Peter Cushing ) who learns of his unpleasant fate . Van Helsing takes it upon himself to inform Jonathan's fiancé Lucy Holmwwod ( Carol Marsh ) of his death but soon realises that Count Dracula is attempting to turn her into his Vampire bride as revenge against Harker , Van Helsing is determined to destroy Dracula & rid the world of his evil Vampire menace forever . . . This English production was directed by Terence Fisher & along with the previous years The Curse of Frankenstein ( 1957 ) which Fisher also directed Dracula really put Hammer studios on the map & made them synonymous with British Gothic horror for the next couple of decades & indeed to an extent until the present day . The script by Jimmy Sangster ( who also penned The Curse of Frankenstein as well as many other Hammer films ) is based upon the classic novel by Bram Stoker much like The Curse of Frankenstein was based upon a well known literary source , here he chooses to disregard several aspects of Stoker's original novel including the insane asylum , the boat trip from Transylvania to England & Dracula's servant Renfield . Having said that this is still very much a Dracula film & the loss of several sub plots & character's causes the film no great harm , in fact it's a nice self contained straight forward Gothic horror film that works as well as one could hope for . Dracula himself isn't given much to do though , he has only thirteen lines in the entire film & only really appears at the very start & the very end . Unlike the Universal Dracula portrayed by Bela Lugosi the Dracula here is a real sexual predator preying on exclusively on women , in fact there isn't even any mention about him drinking blood for any reason other than to turn girls into Vampires & everything he does revolves around girls with big bosom's . At about 80 odd minutes the film has a nice pace even if it does lack a bit of dramatic incident , some might even go as far as to say that Dracula is rather slow & a little dull which while I definitely liked the film would have a hard time arguing against . After doing a fine job on The Curse of Frankenstein director Fisher does pretty much the same here , the wonderful Technicolour cinematography ( most horror films of the period were shot in black and white ) , the busy Victorian period decorated sets & the lush costumes are put to good use & look great . Causing a storm when originally released due to it's violence & gore Dracula hasn't dated that well in those regards , apart from a bit of bright red fake blood there's nothing here to worry those of you with sensitive dispositions . Like a lot of Hammer films the loud booming James Bernard score just annoys me & I have to constantly turn the volume down because I hate them so much . With a supposed budget of about £81 , 000 there's quite a lot on screen for that small amount , it certainly looks great & you can understand why audiences went crazy over these fabulous looking Gothic Hammer films at the time the likes of which had never been seen before . Shot between November 1957 & January 1958 at Bray Studios in Berkshire in England . The acting is very good , both Cushing & Lee are excellent . Cushing gives a firm authoritative & gentlemanly performance while Lee effortlessly goes from perfect imposing lover to savage fang bearing animal with blood shot eyes in a second . Dracula was retitled to Horror of Dracula in the US to avoid confusion with Universal's Dracula ( 1931 ) staring Lugosi since that was still in theatres at the time , while the story isn't anything original ( even back in 1958 ) it's one of the better examples & is largely considered a classic . While I don't love it I do like & think it's a great film & recommend it as a must see for horror fans . Hammer made another eight Dracula films after this to varying degrees of quality starting with The Brides of Dracula ( 1960 ) & finishing with The Legend of the 7 Golden Vampires ( 1974 ) .
Superbly entertaining tongue-in-cheek thriller .	Snakes on a Plane starts in Honolulu in Hawaii where Sean Jones ( Nathan Philips ) sees Los Angeles prosecutor Daniel Hayes ( Scott Nicholson ) brutally murdered by vicious mobster Eddie Kim ( Byron Lawson ) , as a witness Sean has to be killed & silenced by Kim . FBI agent Neville Flynn ( Samuel L . Jackson ) gets to Sean before Kim though & persuades him to testify against the mobster at a trial in the US . Flynn is assigned to escort Sean to Los Angeles via flight 121 , a passenger flight from Honolulu to Los Angeles . They board the flight & take-off , all seems to be going well when 450 poisonous snakes smuggled aboard are released in the luggage hold & begin to slither their way all over the plane . With added pheromones sprayed everywhere that makes the snakes go crazy they attack everyone in sight . Trapped thousands of feet in the air on a plane full of killer snakes the remaining passengers have a hard time staying alive . . . Directed by David R . Ellis this somewhat infamous film seems to divide opinion , on the one side you have those who think it's ridiculous & silly & those like me who think that Snakes on a Plane is just so gloriously entertaining in all it's silliness . It's fairly well documented that the concept for Snakes on a Plane came from a late night booze session between Hollywood writers who challenged each other to see who could come up with the worst pitch for a film , out of humble beginnings it is said Snakes on a Plane was born as New Line Cinema actually then decided to make the thing . God bless ' em . Snakes on a Plane is definitely a B-Movie with A-Movie production values , this feels like the sort of thing that would turn up on the Sci-Fi Channel with a few has-been TV stars & awful CGI effects but the added Hollywood polish turns this into a really enjoyable way to pass an hour & three quarters of anyones time . The script & film as a whole certainly doesn't take itself too seriously & has it's tongue-in-cheek for the majority of the running time , from snakes biting a woman's naked breast to one biting a guy's penis while he has a pee to the often quoted line by Samuel L . Jackson towards the end . Some of it can get a little silly for it's own good especially at the end when the comedy relief fat black guy helps land the jet after saying he can because he plays lots of Playstation flight simulators ! The pace is good , the character's are alright & while you won't care about any of them they are likable enough & I rather liked it overall , sure it won't change your life , it has no deep underlying message about social or moral values & it's not going to make you think but it is undeniably entertaining & surely that's why we all watch films , to be entertained & it's as simple & straight forward as that . A sort of mixture of those transportation disaster films of the 70's & a creature feature Snakes on a Plane actually has some quite suspenseful scenes & director Ellis manages to create a fair amount of tension during the attack scenes & the ensuing panic . There are lots of nice little visual gags too like the the ' snake ' preset button on a microwave , a funny airline safety demonstration & along with the oxygen masks dropping down so do the snakes from the same compartments . There's a bit of gore & exploitation here that was filmed during re-shoots after New Line Cinema decided to upgrade the PG-13 to an R , there's a sex scene with some nudity , various bites , some blood splatter , a guy is trampled by a panicking woman who sticks her high heel into his head , a snake explodes in a microwave & someone is beaten with a baseball bat . The CGI computer effects are actually quite impressive & maybe slightly better than the film deserves but I ain't complaining . Keep watching the end credits as there's a funny specially shot music video which samples Samuel L . Jackson's infamous line of dialogue & features a lot of the main cast . With a supposed budget of about $33 , 000 , 000 & largely shot in Vancouver in Canada & has good production values throughout . The cast was probably chosen for their looks rather then their acting ability although it's all played in a knowingly fun way , Samuel L . Jackson is always watchable & there's a few good lookers here as well . Snakes on a Plane is a tremendously entertaining tongue-in-cheek horror thriller that I for one enjoyed immensely , so shoot me . Look , Snakes on a Plane is fun & entertains & that's all I really want from a film to be honest . I would sooner watch Snakes on a Plane than any of the recently announced BAFTA nominated films . If you really want to see a a rubbish film than watch the ' mockbuster ' rip-off Snakes on a Train ( 2006 ) which really is painful to sit through .
" They respect all life , no matter how small . " Very enjoyable 60's Sc-Fi adventure !	Fantastic Voyage starts with a plane landing on American soil , an important scientist named Dr . Jan Benes ( Jean Del Val ) steps off & speeds off in a waiting car . On the way to wherever he was going an assassination attempt leaves Benes with a serious brain injury & in a coma . Charles Grant ( Stephen Boyd ) is taken the the top secret Government organisation the ' Combined Miniature Deterrence Forces ' where he is told by General Carter ( Edmond O'Brien ) that he will oversee an operation by brain surgeon Dr . Peter Duvall ( Arthur Kennedy ) & his technical assistant Cora Peterson ( Raquel Welch ) . Grant is confused & says there is no reason for him to be present , General Carter goes on to say that he will be placed in a submarine , miniaturised & injected into Benes arterial system & travel to the injury which is the only way to operate on the blood clot in his brain without killing him . There are however a couple of problems , they can only be miniaturised for 60 minutes & that there may be a saboteur among the crew as the ' other side ' doesn't want Benes to talk . Together with the pilot Captain Bill Owens ( William Redfield ) , Dr . Duvall & Cora plus Dr . Maxwell Michaels ( Donald Pleasence ) Grant boards the sub which is then miniaturised & injected into Benes . Things don't go according to plan as the team encounter various obstacles that they must overcome in a race against time to save Benes & eventually themselves . . . Directed by Richard Fleischer I thought Fantastic Voyage was a very enjoyable piece of 60's Sci-Fi adventure that has not dated that well but still entertains & is good fun to watch on a lazy afternoon . The script by Harry Kleiner moves along at a nice pace , has a good solid if somewhat simple story that engages , manages to maintain interest & is very focused as it doesn't get distracted with silly sub-plots like any sort of romantic nonsense . There is a nice underlying current of mistrust as we know one of the team is a saboteur & the various problems the team encounter provide some nice scenes . Fantastic Voyage hasn't dated well , some of the ' futuristic ' looking technology & the medical equipment simply don't hold up these days but I thought it gave the film a certain naive charm & innocence about it . The special effects won't impress anyone theses days used to the latest multi million CGI stuff but everything considered they aren't too bad & I've definitely seen worse . I'm not sure how accurately Fantastic Voyage depicts the inside of the human body , I personally thought it would have been more red but maybe I'm wrong . Whether Fantastic Voyage is accurate or not doesn't really matter as this is pure science fiction & the overall look & feel of these scenes is very good & memorable . Technically Fantastic Voyage is very good with some nice colourful sets & production design , some unconvincing special effects the only real aspect that lets Fantastic Voyage down today . The acting is OK & no one is going to win an Oscar , I also thought the casting of the bad guy gives him away a little too easily if you now what I mean & I'm surprised Richard Basehart isn't here somewhere ! Raquel Welsh fans get to see her in tight fitting scuba gear which shows her best assets off quite well . . . I like Fantastic Voyage , it's good fun for all the family despite it age . A great little Sci-Fi film that is definitely worth a watch for fans & film-goers in general .
" I'm sorry . . . did I say doughnut ? " I actually really rather liked it .	Sometimes They Come Back . . . Again starts in the small American town of Glenrock where an old lady falls off a chair & dies in mysterious circumstances . . . Cut to Los Angeles & her son Jon Porter ( Michael Gross ) in informed of his Mother's death , together with his daughter Michelle ( Hilary Swank ) his goes back to his childhood town to attend the funeral & sort a few things out . However once back strange things begin to happen , a sinister figure from Jon's past in the shape of Tony Reno ( Alexis Arquette ) comes back to haunt his daughter . As past memories come flooding back to Jon a series of brutal murders take place all of which seem to come back to him & his daughter in someway . Only another figure from Jon's past seems able to help , an old priest named Father Archer Roberts ( Willaim Morgan Sheppard ) who talks of demons & sacrificial rituals . . . Co-written & directed by Adam Grossman Sometimes They Come Back . . . Again was the second film in a series of three which started with the Stephen King inspired made-for-TV Sometimes They Come Back ( 1991 ) which I have not seen & continued after this with Sometimes They Come Back . . . for More ( 1999 ) which I have seen & liked . The script by Grossman & Guy Riedel moves along at a nice pace & has a certain air of mystery about it , I mean it won't take a genius to work things out but at least it tries to do something a bit different & keep you guessing which is a hell of a lot more than a lot of dull boring horror films even attempt . The character's are OK & no one annoys , the main villain reminded me of John Travolta as Danny from Grease ( 1978 ) & I was half expecting him to break out into a ' feel-good ' pop tune at any moment ! I also must say that I'm a little surprised by all the negative comments & the disappointingly low user rating on IMDb , personally I have seen far worse & I thought this was a decent way to spend 100 odd minutes but it seems I'm in the minority & no one has ever accused me of having a particularly good taste in films so you may want to bear that in mind . Director Grossman does an OK job & the film looks fine throughout . There isn't much gore but what's here is decent , there's a cool scene in which someone has their head run over by a lawnmower with the expected blood spraying results & Sometimes They Come Back . . . Again is probably the only film to feature a literal death by Tarot card ! The demon make up is alright . With a supposed budget of around $3 , 000 , 000 Sometimes They Come Back . . . Again is a competently made film with a certain polish to it , I mean it ain't brilliant but it's far from bad . The acting is good although Arquette is a bit campy as the main villain & I think we could have done without a lot of the tacky one-liners which start to creep in towards the end . A pre fame Hilary Swank does an OK job & makes for a likable leading lady . Sometimes They Come Back . . . Again was , in my opinion , a pretty good film & better than I had expected . Personally I think you could a lot worse , sure you could do a lot better but not every film can be a Citizen Kane ( 1941 ) , can it ?
Excellent piece of 50's horror / sci-fi .	The Fly starts as a night watchman at a factory discovers the dead body of scientist Andre Delambre ( David Hedison ) with his head & arm having been crushed in a large industrial hydraulic press , he also sees Andre's wife Helene ( Patricia Owens ) running away . Helene phones Andre's brother François ( Vincent Price ) & openly admits to killing Andre , unsure of what to do François phones Inspector Charas ( Herbert Marshall ) . Together they find Andre's body & Helene becomes the obvious suspect , however while she admits to killing Andre she says she didn't murder him . If found guilty Helene would hang so François manages to convince her to tell him & Charas the truth , the horrible truth of a scientific experiment gone hideously wrong . . . Produced & directed by Kurt Neumann The Fly is easily one of the greatest sci-fi horror films of the fifties that stands up remarkably well even today when viewed in the cynical age in which we live during 2008 . The script by James Clavell was based on a short story by George Langelaan which first appeared in a 1957 edition of Playboy of all places , The Fly has a very solid & often intelligent script that works but boy there are some errors & plot holes which are difficult to overlook at times . Probably the most basic is that both Andre & the Fly swap heads with a tiny little fly buzzing around with David Hedison's head & Hedison being left with a giant Fly head which is alright in principal but why does the Fly head retain all of Andre's memories , thoughts & intelligence ? Surely besides being stuck with a Fly head the Fly's brain would have been inside it . Still if you can overlook this then there's a really fine film here . I suppose the moral message The Fly tries to put across is that technology is developing too quickly & there's a heavy handy speech in here which seems somewhat forced . The film has a really nice narrative , it starts off as a pure mystery with Andre's body being found & through a lengthy flashback the horrible truth is revealed . The first seventy odd minutes of The Fly is really gripping & intriguing stuff with some nice drama & character driven moments too , one could say the film loses some impact when the Fly creature is revealed because it's a bit of a let down in appearance . The ending is difficult to rate , on the one hand the basic concept is sound & works but in execution the special effects are poor & the filmmakers seem far too determined to have a happy ending with everyone standing around playing croquet in their garden ! ( apparently forced onto the production by Fox studio executives who wanted a happy ending . . . ) Director Neumann tragically committed suicide a month after it's premiere & just one week before it went on general release which is a shame since The Fly was a big box-office success & surely he would have had a chance to make it really big in Hollywood . He directs the The Fly well enough , the colour photography is a little garish at times but the film looks nice enough & he keeps the monster under wraps & hidden until the end & thus prolonging the tension . Of course a lot of sci-fi & horror films from the 50's were all about mutant monsters & giant bugs but there's more to The Fly than just that , it's very well thought out & constructed . The Fly was remade by Canadian director David Cronenberg during the mid 80's & one has to say it's the better film although the two are very different & Cronenberg's Fly presents a far more realistic , sombre , powerful & dramatic interpretation of the source material in what is easily one of the best horror films ever made in my opinion . With a supposed budget of about $700 , 000 The Fly is well made although I doubt it will impress many modern audiences . The acting is pretty good although like a lot of fifties sci-fi films a little wooden at times , genre favourite Vincent Price turns in a nice performance . The Fly is a classic fifties sci-fi horror film that stands up really well even today although David Cronenberg's remake is far superior , I liked it a lot & apart from a few questionable plot holes & lapses in scientific logic it's a great film . Vincent Price returned for the sequel Return of the Fly ( 1959 ) & a further sequel Curse of the Fly ( 1965 ) was also made , surprisingly both were shot in black and white & therefore one would assume were cheap cash-ins . It doesn't finish there either folks since Fox are making yet another remake called The Fly ( 2008 ) although is it a remake of this fifties original or Cronenberg's eighties remake ?
OK psycho horror / thriller from Dario Argento .	Detective Anna Manni ( Asia Argento ) , is investigating a series of rapes , the trail leads Anna to the Uffizi Museum of Art in Florence . She suffers from the real life Stendhal Syndrome , symptoms include rapid heartbeat , dizziness , confusion and hallucinations , brought on by an overdose of beautiful art , no I don't understand what shes doing in an art museum if she suffers from this either . While looking at a painting she faints . She has a bizarre dream about being underwater with a fish that has a human looking face which she kisses , and then thankfully wakes up . A worker at the museum , Alfredo Grossi ( Thomas Kretschmann ) , helps her to a taxi . Later that night Alfredo rapes Anna in her hotel room , at gun point . Anna's own gun that Alfredo had stolen from her bag earlier in the day when she had fainted in the museum . She faints again . When she wakes she sees Alfredo raping another woman in a car , he shoots and kills the woman , Anna escapes . Returning to Rome , Anna is put on leave and is told to see a psychiatrist Dr Cavanna ( Paolo Bonacelli ) . She decides to visit her family . However , Alfredo was never caught and is preparing to put Anna through another terrifying ordeal . Stylishly directed by Dario Argento I thought it was a pretty good horror / thriller . This time however Argento doesn't use as many camera tricks and weird angles as in some of his previous films , although there is one one scene I liked , it's where Asia is on the phone , the camera starts in front of her , it then begins to zoom in while doing so it twists 90 degrees for no apparent reason other than to look cool , a nice little shot that make someone talking on the phone look interesting ! But imaginatively filmed scenes like this are few and far between . At certain points the film becomes rather brutal and violent , with several rapes and murders , at least in the uncut version anyway . I found these scenes a bit distasteful . Special make up effects are good , including a sequence in which a woman is shot through both cheeks and the killer looks through both holes at Asia . The computer effects work less well , the shots of pills going down Asia's throat look awful , as do one or two of the hallucination scenes . The films biggest problem is the script , credited to Dario Argento , Franco Ferrini and Graziella Magherini . The killer is revealed almost immediately so there's no surprise or tension as to who's committing these brutal rapes and murders for most of the film , and the silly but entertaining twist ending takes absolutely ages to happen , the best part of 50 minutes after Alfredo is supposedly killed . It really drags in places , many scenes could have been shortened or deleted altogether without harming the story . And Asia's illness is more or less completely ignored for the second half of the film . A very young attractive Asia Argento never convinced me she was a hardened police Detective , either . One of Argento's earlier similar murder mystery films Tenebrae ( 1982 ) is a lot better , so try and track that down first . Well made and quite entertaining as far as it goes , but a little tedious in places , should have been 20 odd minutes shorter . Good , but not brilliant , and make sure you see the uncut version . Worth a watch at least .
" He'll get twenty years for that . " Great heist flick .	The First Great Train Robbery is set in Victorian England in 1855 during the Crimean War while Great Britain was at war with Imperial Russia , to pay the soldiers £25 , 000 worth of gold is transported to the Crimean Peninsula every month starting at the London branch of the Huddleston and Bradford bank & across England by train in two several inch thick safe's which require four keys to open . No-one has ever robbed a moving train before but suave criminal Edward Pierce ( Sean Connery ) & his partner Miriam ( Lesley-Anne Downe ) comes up with an elaborate & daring plan to do just that . Each of the four keys are stored separately so finding them & copying them is the first thing Edward & his men need to do , then the hard work really starts . . . This British production was written & directed by Michael Critchton based on his own 1975 novel which was simply titled Great Train Robbery , apparently the ' First ' was added to the title to distance itself from the real great train robbery of the 60's . The film apparently is a fairly accurate adaptation of the novel although the end is changed slightly & a subplot involving a 12 year old prostitute was also dropped . Based on true events that indeed took place in 1855 the film doesn't really strive for historic accuracy & is a crime caper in the mould of The Italian Job ( 1969 ) with a charismatic & likable criminal & his gang staging a daring heist to steal lots of gold & a throughly entertaining tale it is too , I have to say I liked it a lot . I liked the character's , Sean Connery's character in particular is very suave & likable , I love the innuendo filled conversation he has with Edgar Trent's wife , Donald Sutherland's key maker Agar provides good support although in the book it was he who turned Pierce into the police & there's plenty of colourful Victorian character's to flesh the film out as well . The film has a decent pace although it's not the most incident packed ever made , the film has lots of great sequences from the tension filled scenes where they steal & copy the the keys to the exciting climax where Pierce has to make his way across the roof of a speeding train . If you like crime heist films then this is one of the best . Director Crichton does a good job & the film looks splendid with sumptuous Victorian England production design , I would expect a lot of time effort & energy was spent on making The First Great Train Robbery look so good . Animal lovers should beware , although not in the UK since it's cut , because there's a ratting scene where a dog attacks some rats . The film showcase's both the rich splendour of the wealthy inhabitants of Victorian England ( there's a great scene early on in a mens club where several gents scoff at the idea of women being able to vote ) & the squalid slums of the poorer inhabitants . There's a great attention to detail throughout including a recreation of a flower show held at Crystal Palace . With a supposed budget of about £6 , 000 , 000 the film is well made throughout with impressive production values & period design . Filmed in Ireland & here in England . The acting is very good with Sean Connery making a very likable villain but one who also has a dark side when needed , British ballet dancer Wayne Sleep did all his own stunts including scaling that prison wall while there are numerous other notable faces involved . The First Great Train Robbery wasn't the first by any means but definitely still stands as a great heist film that has eye catching period detail , a good solid plot & a great cast . A really good film & it's as simple & straight forward as that .
" I've seen amputees with better hands than this . " I quite liked it actually .	Funny Man starts as Max Taylor ( Benny young ) & his mates are playing poker , serious poker for serious stakes . One of the other players Callum Chance ( Christopher Lee ) runs out of cash so puts up his English ancestral home worth about £1 million & promptly loses it . Max , his wife Tina ( Ingrid Lacey ) & children Harry ( Harry Heard ) & Jammie ( Jamie Heard ) pitch up there one night to check it out & wait for his brother Johnny ( Matthew Devitt ) who is driving there along with a load of weird hitchhikers to drop some of Max's stuff off to store there . However once there Max & his family are terrorised by a strange demonic Jester known as the Funny Man ( co-producer Tim James ) who comes from a place called Sod's Law , the Funny Man twists the things that people say & use it to come up with cruel & unusual ways to kill them . I have no idea why though . . . This English production ( this is the sort of thing which makes me proud to call myself an Englishman . . . ) was written & directed by Simon Sprackling & without quite knowing why I rather liked it for what it was . I should also say that according to the IMDb's ' Alternate Versions ' section Funny Man was cut for a US ' R ' rating & that I definitely watched the longer uncut version complete with the brains shooting out of the girls head , so bear that in mind . The script for Funny Man is a strange one & I don't quite know what to make of it , there's little in the way of story & it has a habit of switching tone from straight horror to comedy to slapstick to deadpan humour to downright crudeness & it's frankly weird at times & there's even enough time for it to be a musical as well but I thought it all came together rather well to create an enjoyable comedy horror that never takes itself seriously , it moves along like a rocket so it's never dull or boring & I actually found it quietly amusing at times although I think you will need a slightly twisted sense of humour to get the most out of it , I'm not sure what that says about me . . . The best way I can describe Funny Man is to liken it to a comedy sketch show where the Funny Man creates little mini films within the overall film to dispatch his victims in a ironic & gory way , yeah I'd call it the first horror orientated comedy sketch film that I've seen & for what it is & what it tries to be I found it good fun & good entertainment . Director Sprackling does a good job , I don't think I've seen another film quite like it . The Funny Man ( who lives in a place called Sod's Law , nice touch ) looks like an ugly Jester although he occasionally changes outfits & he regularly turns to the camera & ' talks ' to the audience a bit like a stand up comedian . I have no idea why there is a character in this who is obviously modelled on Velma from Scooby-Doo , here called Thelma . I'd imagine the gore is probably restrained in the cut American version but here in the UK it's always been uncut with such delights as decapitated heads , brains blown out , the top of some guys head is blown off & there's a nice shot of him on the floor twitching with the top half of his head missing spurting blood , the Funny Man burrows through someones stomach , he sticks a stiletto heel in someones eye , someone is battered to death with a baseball bat & more . With a supposed budget of about £1 , 000 , 000 Funny Man is well made with good production values although the film takes place almost entirely with the confines of one house . Some of the special effects aren't that great but they'll do considering . The acting is OK & there are one or two pretty funny performances here , while looking at the credits list on the IMDb I noticed one listed for ' Crap Puppeteer ' & I must admit I'm struggling to know who this refers too . . . Arsenal football club fans should note that ex-striker Ian Wright makes a voice cameo . For about two lines of dialogue . I was surprised about how much I liked Funny Man , it has a certain style & originality . This definitely isn't just another boring slasher & the attempted start of a soulless franchise , I personally think there's more to Funny Man than that . Not everything works , not everything is funny in it but it certainly gets points for effort & enthusiasm , not bad at all & if you like your horror light & mixed with laughs then you could do a hell of a lot worse than Funny Man you really could . . .
" I knew I should never have picked up that broad . " Surprisingly good little exploitation film from the 70's .	I Drink Your Blood starts late one night in some woods just outside the small American town of Valley Hills where the self proclaimed first born son of Satan Horace Bones ( Bhaskar Roy Chowdhury as Bhaskar ) & his gang of hippie Satanists are holding a ritual as a local girl named Sylvia Banner ( Iris Brooks ) looks on , she is discovered , caught & beaten up . Sylvia manages to stumble back to town & ' Mildred's Bakery ' run by ( surprise ) Mildred Nash ( Elizabeth Marner-Brooks ) , Sylvia is taken home to her Grandfather ( Richard Bowler ) who eventually manages to extract the truth from her . He decides to confront Horace & his gang who are now squatting in the now abandoned hotel , taking LSD , performing more Satanic rituals & generally behaving in an antisocial manner . They beat him up , give him LSD & send him home with his young Grandson Pete ( Riley Mills ) . Pete is upset at the treatment of his Grandfather & as luck would have it a dog with rabies turns up which Pete shoots dead , extracts some of it's blood & infects some meat pies in the local bakery which the hippies buy the next day . In no time at all most of the hippies have gone psycho & are killing each other & anyone else they come across , it's up to the final few residents of Valley Hills & some construction workers lead by Mildred's boyfriend Roger ( Jack Damon as John Damon ) to save the day & stop the disease from spreading any further . . . Written & directed by David Durston I thought I Drink Your Blood was better than I had expected , I will be commenting on the uncut 83 minute version released on DVD & billed after the end credits as a ' Director's Cut ' although I'm not sure as to how this version differs from any other . The script is a bit slow at times but generally it moves along at a nice pace & at least it's not boring . I Drink Your Blood is exploitation motivated for sure , there's rape , torture , hard drug usage , animal cruelty , nudity , Satanic rituals & as much murder & mayhem as the filmmakers could fit into 83 minutes . Maybe not as shocking or extreme when viewed today compared to when it was originally made over 35 years ago it still has a nice nasty streak running through it . My only real complaint with I Drink Your Blood is between the exploitation moments I found it a bit dull & not much fun to watch as it seems to take itself quite seriously with slightly stiff & somewhat boring dialogue & character's , I just wish it was a bit more fun if that's the right word . On the negative side as well I found it somewhat silly that these crazed rabid psycho's are scared of water to the extent that they are unable to even step in a shallow stream or resist a hose pipe , also if your an animal lover you may want to avoid I Drink Your Blood as director Durston seems to stick some dead animals or animal cruelty in the film at regular intervals , a chicken has it's throat slit , a dog is shot dead , rats are caught killed & cooked , a dead rabbit is beaten against a tree & for some unexplained reason a dead goat with a cut throat is dragged around during the climax with some nice close ups just so we don't miss it . Director Durston manages to create that essential unique 70's grimy , sleazy atmosphere that almost makes you feel dirty for just watching it . He handles everything very well & injects some pace & energy into the film . There is a pleasing amount of gore as well , beside the animal cruelty someone's feet are cut open , a leg is chopped off , someone is stabbed , a hand is cut off with an electric carving knife , someone stabs themselves in the stomach with a wooden stake , someone is impaled with a sword that ends up coming out of their mouth , someone is gorily stabbed in the stomach & someone is decapitated . Probably made on a shoestring budget I Drink Your Blood is technically a very accomplished film & much better made than I had expected , the production values are good , the photography is surprisingly fluid & not static , the music is OK & it is competently made throughout at some nice locations . The acting is also pretty good although I have a problem with Mills as Pete the young boy , he is very annoying as most leading children are in horror films . I Drink Your Blood was an unexpected surprise for me , it has the gore & exploitation elements that I was hoping for but it has a definite polish & exceeded my admittedly low expectation's . I personally think I Drink Your Blood is an absolute must for exploitation fans & most horror fans will probably also enjoy it on some level , well worth a watch for those with the tolerance for these type's of films .
This kid's a little devil . . . Classic demonic horror from the 70's that has stood the test of time pretty well .	The Omen starts in ' Rome June 6th - 6AM ' where the rich & powerful Robert Thorn ( Gregory Peck ) is told by Father Spiletto ( Martin Benson ) that his recently born son is dead , that his wife Katherine ( Lee Remick ) is not aware of it yet & that a replacement new born baby is ready if he wants it . Thorn accepts the offer & brings the boy Damien ( Harvey Stephens ) up as if he was his own , shortly after Thorn is appointed the American ambassador of England where he & his family move . However , when Damien turns the age of five things start to turn somewhat nasty . Holly ( Holly Palance ) , Damien's nanny , decides to commit suicide by hanging herself in front of Thorn & his guests . A vicious Rottweiler starts hanging around the Thorn estate , Father Brennan ( Patrick Troughton ) pays Thorn a visit & desperately tries to warn him of his son , Damien freaks out whenever he goes anywhere near a church , Katherine becomes pregnant but loses the baby in an ' accident ' & they hire the nanny from hell Mrs . Baylock ( Billie Whitelaw ) . A nosey photographer named Keith Jennings ( David Warner ) starts to dig a little & becomes aware of the strange goings-on , he contacts Thorn & as they investigate they slowly arrive at a theory that they may be dealing with the Antichrist himself . . . Directed by Richard Donner The Omen is a classic horror that plays well even today , two decades after it's initial release . The script by David Seltzer is a little slow in places but still managed to engage & interest me throughout , the character's are strong & as a whole the story & plotting are solid . The little kid Damien looks real evil but is barely in the film & most of the running time is spent on Thorn trying to figure out what's going on . The Omen was made in 1976 & has dated extremely well , both in terms of story & it's overall look without many hideous 70's hairdo's & clothes to date it . Director Donner does a good job at building the tension & considering the small sounding $2 , 800 , 000 budget The Omen is remarkably well made . The fantastic decapitation scene is one of the best ever committed to film although the rest of the violence in The Omen is disappointingly tame by comparison . The cinematography is great , very classy & stylish . Jerry Goldsmith won an Oscar for his brilliant music & as a whole The Omen has very nice production values & a polished feel throughout . The acting is strong by a good cast , apparently Charlton Heston , Roy Scheider & William Holden all turned down the leading role eventually taken by veteran actor Gregory Peck who hadn't worked prior to The Omen for five years & took a cut in salary , make of that what you want . . . Overall I liked The Omen , it makes for good entertainment & it has a certain greatness about it . Worth watching just for that cool decapitation scene & Jerry Goldsmith's score alone . . .
Fine British survivalist horror film .	Wilderness starts in Moorgate Prison for young offenders where a lad named Dave ( John Travers ) is found dead one morning in his dorm after having slit his wrist's during the night . The Guvenor ( George Shane ) isn't happy & is aware that Dave had been bullied & abused by other unmates so in his anger he sends these other inmates on a free holiday to a picturesque isolated island just off the coast for some fun ( some punishment ! ) . Prison guard Jed Walker ( Sean Pertwee ) gets the job of babysitting them but things get out of hand when the mutilated body of a tramp ( Colin Nicolson ) is found , one of the inmates Callum ( Toby Kebbell ) is accused but the group quickly discover they are not alone on the island as some unseen psycho killer begins to pick them off one-by-one . . . This British production was directed by Michael J . Bassett & I have to say that I was impressed with Wildnerness , I didn't think it was perfect but it's certainly an effective little British horror flick with an edge . Wilderness is a well put together sort of mix of survivalist , horror , action , thriller & teen slasher film all rolled into one & it's very similar to Severance ( 2006 ) another British survivalist horror film made the same year but without the comedy elements . Wilderness takes itself very seriously in fact , there's a fairly disturbing opening sequence showing the bullying & subsequent suicide of a young offender in prison ( with which his tormentors are given a free holiday for as punishment ! ) & it's fairly grim going right through until the end with some brutal murders , some really unlikable character's who do some really nasty stuff & a pretty bleak atmosphere . The film has a good pace , there's plenty going on & there's some very memorable moments here but it's not perfect , the fact that all of the character's are so unlikable is a problem because you end up wanting them to die rather than rooting for them & I was disappointed by a fairly lacklustre twist at the end & an all too predictable killer . The film looks good & there's none of that awful slow-motion , fast-motion , quick cut editing , shaky hand-held camcorder cinematography or any colour bleaching which is great , it's nice to see a film shot pretty much ' as is ' rather than have lots of pointless & often annoying post-production techniques inserted . There's some nice gore here too , there's a fair amount of blood splatter , someone is shot with arrows , dogs tear the side of someone's face off & bite his chest & stomach open leaving his insides hanging out , there's a severed head on a spike , there's a slit throat , a guy has his foot sliced off by a bear trap , there's a severed arm , there are stabbings & the violence levels are up to the required standards . There are one or two really great scenes here , the bit when Callum stands looking around by sees nothing then moves away only for the leaves on the ground to move or when the killer slashes someone's throat from behind without them even noticing them there are very effective . With a supposed budget of about £3 , 000 , 000 this was shot in Scotland & Nothern Ireland here in the UK & the locations are nice enough . The acting is pretty solid although some of the accents are a little off putting & feel very forced & at times dubbed . Sean Pertwee is the only cast member of any real note here . Wilderness is a very good film that will have most gripped , the plot is good & the action & gore is great . Definitely well worth a watch as far as I am concerned .
Surprisingly inventive murder mystery .	Grip of the Strangler starts in Victorian London at ' Newgate Prison 1860 ' where a notorious murderer named Edward Styles ( Michael Atkinson ) dubbed the ' Haymarket Strangler ' is sent to the gallows & hanged in front of a cheering cockney public . . . Jump forward 20 years & novelist James Rankin ( Boris Karloff ) also happens to be a social reformer & is taking a great deal of interest in the conviction & hanging of Styles , he believes that had Styles had the money to pay for a decent legal defence in court he would never had been convicted & in an attempt to get good legal aid for everyone Rankin decides to prove that Styles was innocent . Along with his assistant Dr . Kenneth McColl ( Tim Turner ) Rankin collects overwhelming evidence that a doctor named Tennant was responsible for the brutal killings , unfortunately his investigation's take a sinister & unexpected turn as the murders start up once more . . . This English production was directed by Robert Day & was better than I had expected . The script by John Croydon & Jan Read , who also wrote the story ' Stranglehold ' upon which Grip of the Strangler is based , main asset is a couple of neat twists & turns that caught me by surprise & it seems a fair amount of thought went into it . The mystery elements are minimal as it's made clear from the start Styles is innocent & Tennant was responsible but even with this basic framework of a murder mystery about half way through Grip of the Strangler suddenly turns into a 50's slasher film with a neat plot twist . At less than 80 minutes long it never becomes boring , the story engages , the character's are alright & is more than watchable . Director Day does an OK job but you have to take into consideration that Grip of the Strangler is the best part of half a century old , I would have thought it was quite risqué at the time with a knife wielding maniac running around strangling & slashing young women to death & it bar in which scantily clad ( for the 50's ) women perform on stage for men . There's a nice period atmosphere to the film & there's some effective scenes . Technically the film is fine with nice black and white cinematography & good solid production design . The acting was better than expected , Karloff pulls a strange face at the end as he is meant to be paralysed down one side & looks pretty ugly if nothing else . Grip of the Strangler is a good solid British horror film that is well worth watching for fans of the genre or fans of Karloff . Worth tracking down .
" It's like something out of a horror movie . " Top Quincy episode .	Quincy M . E . : A Night to Raise the Dead starts late one stormy Los Angeles night ( or very early one morning whichever way you look at it ) , as a ferocious thunderstorm rages outside Alan Turner ( Frank Aletter ) has to go to his car when he remembers he left some important paperwork in it . Alan puts his coat & wellies on & venture into the pouring rain & over to his car , then he is horrified to see a dead body on the ground . Lt . Monahan ( Garry Walberg ) notifies Los Angeles coroner & chief medical examiner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) who attends the scene , after the autopsy back at the laboratory Quincy becomes worried after he confirms the man died from a severe form of typhoid . Then more bodies are found in the area , it turns out that the Park Knowles cemetery collapsed in the torrential rain & lots of coffins & bodies were washed downhill . Quincy faces a race against time to find the bodies infected with typhoid before an epidemic occurs but finds his progress hindered by red tape , bureaucracy & a cover up . . . Episode 9 from season 4 this Quincy story was directed by Gene Nelson & is yet another great episode from a very strong season four . I think by the time season three & four went into production the production team were very comfortable with the ideas & themes behind the show & were prepared to experiment & try different things . It's an urban myth that every Quincy episode revolves around a murder & the title character Quincy solving it , that's absolute nonsense as the show did indeed start that way but there really are a lot of diverse & imaginative stories & the basic concept of the show allows for this as well . Here A Night to Raise the Dead is a prime example , there's no murder here & it's a race against time to prevent an epidemic of a dangerous disease & it's a great episode . The set-up is very good & I really liked the idea of a cemetery collapsing scattering bodies & coffins all over the place which leads to Quincy uncovering corruption & fighting red tape & bureaucracy in order to prevent an epidemic . The one aspect of A Night to Raise the Dead that doesn't quite work is the slightly anti climactic ending , I mean after all this build up & constant hammering home about the threat of a dead body with typhoid the program just finishes with the body being found & that's it . It's like the makers realised they were running out of time & just decided to have someone find the body & close the case . Still , a very entertaining & different episode , I liked it . I have to say I always like to see a good thunderstorm in a film or TV show , they are just so atmospheric & evocative . Here Lt . Monahan goes for a different look , he wears a trilby 1940's detective type hat & long overcoat which is different from his usual tight fitting suits . By contrast Quincy spends a large majority of this episode in a bright yellow plastic anorak & wellies ! The acting is fine but as usual the regulars are better than the guests , the scene when Quincy passionately argues with Morales is a prime example as Klugman is just excellent while the guy playing Morales is flat & very poor by comparison . A Night to Raise the Dead is another excellent example of Quincy & it's variety of very flexible & diverse story lines which don't always revolve around a murder . A must for fans & I could see more casual viewers liking it as well .
Classic Quincy .	Quincy M . E . : Accomplice to Murder starts as Martha Steele ( Karen Philipp ) arrives home after a day shopping with her friend , inside her apartment & she is faced by burglar Joseph Kling ( Randall R . Stumpe ) who frightens her & causes Martha to trip over , hit her head on a cushion & die . Los Angeles coroner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) performs an autopsy & concludes Martha died from a severe cerebral hemorrhage , Lt . Monahan ( Garry Walberg ) arrests Joseph & considers it an open & shut case . However Quincy isn't so sure as there were no indications to suggest Joseph hit her & that the main cause of Martha's death was an old brain injury sustained six months earlier , Quincy also finds out that Martha was regularly beaten by her husband William ( Robert Colbert ) & Quincy becomes convinced that's how Martha got the injuries which ultimately killed her , although how can he prove it ? Episode 13 from season 3 this Quincy story was directed by Paul Krasny & is a solid entry in the series . This episode is divided between Quincy proving Joseph the burglar wasn't responsible for Martha's death & trying to prove her husband William was along with the strong moral message about domestic abuse & wife beating . The script suggests that nobody wants to deal with the problem of domestic violence as the victims Doctors , the police , prosecutors & judge's all turn a blind eye . Of course that's where Quincy steps in & show's everyone how to do it , how to stand up for women's rights & that a man beating his wife isn't normal or acceptable which it obviously isn't . The script does a good job of balancing the two out , giving enough time for the usual Quincy murder mystery where he has to use his medical expertise & knowledge to prove something & the moral message about wife beating & that there are people out there who can help & that women shouldn't just accept it . I liked this episode , it moves along at a good pace , there's a touch of humour to lighten the tone & it has the balls to portray a serious issue which Quincy as a series never shied away from anyway . Accomplice to Murder is the fabled episode where Quincy gives his business card to a woman named Bonnie as he offers her a job , later on while looking through her purse her husband sees the card & there's a close-up on it & it reads ' Dr . R . Quincy M . E . ' which is as close as we ever came to discovering Quincy's first name . In fact it became a running gag & even during his wedding vows in season eight he is just referred to as Quincy ! So what does the initial ' R ' stand for ? I guess we'll never know now . . . Accomplice to Murder also indicates that Sam keeps his lunch in the laboratory fridge along with dissected human brains , nice . The acting is good although again like a lot of season three there's no Danny or bar scenes . Accomplice to Murder is a good solid Quincy episode , it has a decent murder mystery & a commendable moral message which are both given equal time to develop . A must for fans .
A good crime solving Quincy episode .	Quincy M . E . : Across the Line starts outside the L . A . branch of the Frasier Pacific Bank where Lt . Monahan ( Garry Walberg ) is on a stakeout after an anonymous tip that an armed robbery was going to take place , sure enough two men rob the bank at gunpoint . A gunfight between the cops & robbers takes place where one robber is shot dead while the other hijacks a car , he forces the female driver a Sally Tourneau to put her foot down & get him as far away from the bank as possible but another cop called Brian Taggart ( Jack Kehoe ) shoots at the speeding car & kills Sally . It seems like a clear case of excessive force & a bad shooting so Taggart is suspended & more than likely to be kicked off the force , Taggart asks Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) to defend him in a tribunal even though he knows Quincy thinks he's guilty . Reluctantly Quincy agrees but all the evidence points to Taggart having needlessly killed an innocent woman . . . Episode 9 from season 8 this Quincy story was directed by Georg Fenady & I think it's a really well balanced one which hasn't always been the case during season 8 so far . I must say that I thought the season started off really badly & hated the first few episodes but things have definitely picked up & this is a good solid mystery with a social message about trigger happy cops which the producers were obviously so keen on including . I must admit I really liked the idea that Quincy has to prove Taggart innocent even though everyone including Quincy himself thinks he's guilty of killing an innocent woman although as a plot I'm not sure how much sense it makes , I mean would you let someone represent you in what is basically a murder trial who has publicly admitted they thought you were guilty ? No , I wouldn't either but it's an interesting notion that makes for a good Quincy episode where he has to use his medical knowledge & knowhow to get to the truth which is actually a surprise for once . At less than an hour in length it moves along at a nice pace , it never bores & Klugman is just so watchable as usual . This one starts with a shoot out between the cops & robbers , some of the ' ordinary ' cops are actually armed with machine guns ! Don't you think the LAPD would have a special firearms unit that carried machine guns rather than give them to your average cop ? Also wouldn't there be more cops besides two in a van & three hidden behind some beams of wood ? It's nice to see all the regular cast , Asten , Monahan , Brill , Danny & Sam all have reasonable sized parts in Across the Line as so far season 8 hasn't been kind to them . The guest cast do a pretty good job here as do the more familiar faces . Across the Line is a good solid & throughly enjoyable Quincy episode , season 8 is definitely getting better as it goes , I liked this one & thought the story was unusual & interesting while still remaining entertaining & Quincy-like .
" That fcking leech been chucking up for the past twenty minutes down here , it's wall to wall sht all over the place . " Entertaining enough gross-out horror .	Body Melt starts with evil Vimuville health resort hostess Shaan ( Regina Gaigalas ) pumping chemist Ryan ( Robert Simper ) full of a bright green drug known as E59 & then phoning her boss & telling them he won't make it till morning . Ryan has developed a conscience & is against the testing of new experimental drugs on ordinary people in Pebbles Court located in Homesville . On his way to Pebbles Court to warn the residents Ryan crashes his car & is killed . Detective Sam Phillips ( Gerard Kennedy ) & his partner Johnno ( Andrew Daddo ) are on the case . Paul Matthews ( William McInnes ) who lives at No . 9 finds a free vitamin drink sample in his mailbox & decides to give it a go , it's not long before he starts to suffer bizarre hallucinations . Brian ( Brett Cilmo ) & his pregnant wife Cheryl Rand ( Lisa McCune ) are prescribed Vimuville drugs , two friends Gino Argento ( Maurie Annese ) & Sal Ciccone ( Nick Polites ) are invited to Vimuville for sperm donation purposes & the Noble family , Thompson ( Adrian Wright ) , Angelica ( Jill Murray ) , Elloise ( Amanda Douge ) & Brandon ( Ben Geurens ) are given a holiday by Vimuville as the residents of Pebbles Court become unwilling Guinea pigs for the evil Dr . Carrera ( Ian Smith ) & his somewhat unstable experimental drugs . . . This Autralian production was directed by Philip Brophy who also composed the music for Body Melt & I quite liked it , but it isn't without it's faults . The script by co-producer Rod Bishop lacks a central character , too many characters just come & go within a short space of time . Ryan is introduced at the start but killed off quickly , Matthews is then introduced but almost entirely forgotten about , a crazy back woods family who last for about twenty minutes , Gino & Sal are killed off early on , Shaan occasionally pops up , the evil Carrera isn't seen for the best part of an hour , the Noble family only get about a thirty minute chunk towards the end so we are left with the cops who are the only consistent characters but even they don't have much screen time & aren't developed . There is no one to really root for or against in Body Melt which is a big problem as I never became gripped or involved with what was happening on screen . It almost seems like a collection of events & situations rather than a linear film with narrative structure . The ending was disappointing as it just sort of fizzes out when most of it's characters have suffered gooey deaths . I absolutely hated Pud ( Vincent Gil ) & his retarded family , shades of The Texas Chainsaw Massacre ( 1974 ) maybe ? I don't know about anyone else but if I encountered them I wouldn't stick around , windscreen or no windscreen much less try to have sex with one of the most ugly girls I've ever seen ! I really hope that was make up effects on her face , I really do . . . On the positive side these events & situations lead into some memorable & gross special effect sequences . Someones throat slits open & tentacles slide out up their nose , someone grows a giant tongue , the annoying kid has a rollerskating accident & scrapes his face off ( Horay ! ) , a guy is attacked by his wife's living placenta , an autopsied corpse , someone puking up green sick , a body builders back splitting open , someones head melts , a kangaroo is killed then has it's throat cut out & eaten , an exploding penis & a truly gross scene when someone drowns in their own snot , most of these are quite silly & not always convincing but their fun & a bit different . Body Melt moves along at a nice pace & at only 80 odd minutes never became boring , at least something is always going on to keep one entertained . The acting is OK & a few familiar faces turn up including Ian Smith as the bad guy . Tecnically Body Melt is above average for a low budget film & I was quite impressed with it's overall production values & feel . Body Melt is something a little different & worth a watch for that reason alone , the over-the-top splatter gross out effect's will also stay with you long after you have forgotten about most of the rest of it . Definitely worth a watch but it does feel scattered & unfocused at times .
Entertaining adaptation of the musical .	Sweeney Todd : The Demon Barber of Fleet Street starts as wrongly convicted escaped penal colony prisoner Benjamin Barker ( Johnny Depp ) arrives back home in London 15 years after he was imprisoned at the behest of the corrupt Judge Turpin ( Alan Rickman ) leaving behind a beautiful wife & a young daughter named Johanna for the lecherous old Judge to prey on . Barker heads back to where he used to live & finds Mrs . Lovett ( Helena Bonham Carter ) running a meat pie shop , she claims his wife committed suicide & the Judge now keeps Johanna ( Jayne Wisener ) imprisoned in his house . Changing his name from Barker to Sweeney Todd to hide his real identity he sets up a barber's above the meat pie shop where he plots his gruesome revenge . . . This British American co-production was directed by Tim Burton & is a gory Gothic & darkly morbid film adaptation of the Stephen Sondheim musical as opposed to a straight adaptation of the infamous story which has been around since the 19th Century , apparently . The musical adaptation was by Christopher Bond while the films screenplay is credited to John Logan , I will admit right here & now that I haven't seen Sondheim's musical this is based on so I have no idea if it's faithful but by all accounts there are several songs missing from this & it goes without saying that this film version has far more flexibility in what it shows than a live stage musical ever could . I liked the story , I liked the setting , I liked the character's & for the most part I liked the songs too but I did think the first half was a little slow at times . It's fair to say right now a few weeks after Sweeney Todd : The Demon Barber of Fleet Street opened it has reached # 189 in the IMDb's ' Top 250 ' films list although I doubt very much that it will stay there especially when it comes out on home video . This is a hard film to call & recommend , apart from some isolated sequences with dialogue the entire film is sang & that in itself may put many off , it can look a bit strange at times & I must admit that I did start & get a little bored with it as the entire first half of the film is song after song with very little incident . Once the killings & gore start the films picks up immeasurably but that's probably down to the fact that I love horror films & gory horror films at that so one could argue that my liking for such things carried me through . If you don't like musicals where everyone bursts into song every few seconds & you don't like blood drenched darkly Gothic horror films then Sweeney Todd : The Demon Barber of Fleet Street is your worst nightmare come true . This really is down to personal taste , if you have no interest in musicals or gore then give it a miss since I think it's a very acquired taste . Director Burton knows how to turn in a visually interesting & stylish film with Sweeney Todd : The Demon Barber of Fleet Street no exception , there's some wonderful camera shots & plenty of little visual gags & clever touches . It's certainly a great & often ghoulish film to sit down & watch . The sets are superb , they really give you a feel of the run down rat infested back streets of Victorian ( modern ? ! ) London & are totally convincing . Large parts of the film are gore free but once the blood flows there's plenty on show with some of the coolest slit throats out there , huge spurts of crimson red blood look great as do the various minced up bodies & mutilated human remains seen at the end of the film . Talking of the end it's all rather morbid & downbeat , personally I thought it was an appropriate & fitting way to round the film off but just don't expect a Grease ( 1978 ) style happy ending ! Over here in the UK the trailers that have run on TV have all been dialogue based & make no indication that Sweeney Todd : The Barber of Fleet Street is 95 % musical , I could certainly see people mislead by the trailers into thinking they were going to see a Tim Burton Gothic horror gore-fest rather than a sprightly musical which I think is rather naughty . . . With a supposed budget of about $50 , 000 , 000 Sweeney Todd : The Demon Barber of Fleet Street is superbly made with exquisite production values , the sets look gorgeous although Burton tends to bleach a lot of the colour out of the shot & at times it's not far from being black and white . Actually shot here in the UK this certainly looks very nice . The acting is alright , the singing is alright & I have no major problems with either although I doubt anyone will be singing any of the songs on show here to themselves on the way home & the heavy cockney accents might put some off . Sweeney Todd : The Demon Barber of Fleet Street is an acquired taste for sure , I'm positive it won't stay in the IMDb Top 250 for very long & I don't really think it deserves to be there now . This one really is down to personal tastes , bear in mind that it's a musical & that it's quite bloody & if it still appeals to you then your more than likely going to enjoy it .
" He's been betting on horses for so long he eats hay for breakfast . " Classic Quincy .	Quincy M . E . : A Blow to the Head . . . A Blow to the Heart starts as LA coroner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) is called to a local sports arena after a championship boxer named Luke Stokes ( Rodney Hoston ) suddenly collapsed & died after a high profile boxing match against Ray Ringo ( Randy Shield ) , after the autopsy Quincy is convinced Stokes died from massive brain damage . However before he is able to sign the death certificate as natural causes Stokes widow Laura ( Lynne Moody ) raises suspicions that her husband's death wasn't accidental , Quincy starts to do some digging & he discovers huge amounts of money were placed on Ringo who was the overwhelming underdog . Quincy smells a fixed fight , a fixed fight which left a man dead & because of that he is determined to get to the truth & bring the bad guy's to justice . . . Episode 2 from season 3 this Quincy story was directed by Corey Allen & is a good solid crime drama staring everyone's favourite coroner . In this one Quincy has to tackle sports corruption & the fatal consequence to a young championship boxer , it's a good entertaining plot in which Quincy gets to play detective & follow his hunch when everyone else thinks he's wrong as usual . This one also delves into themes of loyalty & friendship as Quincy suspects one of his closet friends although things turn out all well & good at the end , the final resolution & ending where the bad guy is unmasked thankfully isn't too obvious . At 50 odd minutes ( minus adverts ) it moves along at a nice pace , it doesn't have a sentimental moral message that gets in the way of the main story & is a very watchable crime mystery . It's not the best Quincy episode ever but it's far from the worst . During the opening credits to this episode Quincy's usual ' Gentlemen , you are about to enter the most fas . . . ' speech is not present , the actual footage of his mouth moving , the cops lining up & fainting one-by-one is still there but the speech itself is missing for some bizarre reason ! I also noticed that the big box-office smash of the previous year was the boxing film Rocky ( 1976 ) & I wonder if that films success had any influence on the makers of Quincy to do a story involving boxing , it wouldn't surprise me . As usual this is well made & functional if a little bland . The acting is good , Joe Louis ( AKA Sgt . Joe Louis ) the World Heavyweight boxing champion ( apparently considered by some as the greatest champion in the sports history ) from 1937 to 1949 makes a cameo appearance as a mate of Quincy's ! A Blow to the Head . . . A Blow to the Heart is another great Quincy episode , sure I love the series so maybe I'm biased but that's my right , isn't it ? A must for fans of the show & anyone into good mystery telly looking to pass 50 odd minutes .
Good Quincy episode .	Quincy M . E . : A Matter of Principle starts as a woman is brutally raped by a ski masked psycho , outside her apartment block the police arrest known rapist Robert Denvo ( Robert F . Lyons ) for the crime . At the forensics laboratory Odontologist Dr . Winter ( Wallace Rooney ) compare cats of Denvo's teeth to bite wounds found on the victim & he concludes they match perfectly . However laboratory analyst Sam Fujiama ( Robert Ito ) says he has developed a new more accurate way to identify bite marks using an electron microscope which contradicts the findings of Dr Winter . In court Sam's new method puts sufficient doubt into the jury's minds & Denvo is acquitted , however shortly after Denvo is released another woman is brutally raped & murdered & Sam's new technique isn't looking quite so good anymore when all the evidence points to Denvo . . . Episode 2 from season 6 this Quincy story was directed by Ron Satlof & after the lacklustre season opener Last Rights ( 1980 ) this is the first great episode of the sixth season . Here Quincy takes a back seat for the majority of the episode & it's his trusty lab assistant Sam who gets to play detective having just developed a more accurate way to identify teeth marks . Not everyone believes Sam's new method though & when a woman is raped & murdered after an accused rapist is set free due to his technique Sam starts to question himself & Quincy is the only one who supports him , the majority of A Matter of Principle focuses on Sam & the effect the case has on him . There's a pretty good murder mystery as well as you just know Sam is right & Denvo didn't do it but the actual rapist & killers motives are a little slim to say the least , add to that a watchable if short court trial & there's enough going on to maintain ones interest . All in all a good episode that gives one of the secondary character's a chance to shine for a change , there's not much humour here & the overall message about believing in yourself is a little heavy handed at times but at only fifty odd minutes in length A Matter of Principle is well worth watching . The opening of A Matter of Principle sees a woman attacked in her apartment by a rapist & killer wearing a ski mask who reminded me of the killer from the exploitation classic The Toolbox Murders ( 1978 ) , the original that is & not the rubbishy Tobe Hooper remake . Interestingly it is stated in A Matter of Principle that Sam has been working at the county coroner's office for six years & since Quincy by now was in it's sixth season you could make the argument that the series has run in almost ' real time ' . Set largely in the laboratory A Matter of Principle is well made but unremarkable . The acting is fine although Ito can't really carry an episode like the peerless Klugman can , no offence but he isn't the lowly laboratory assistant for nothing ! A Matter of Principle is a good classic Quincy episode that might lack some trademark humour but it gives one of the other character's a chance to play detective & solve a murder . Fans of the show should like it & I think it's one of those episodes that more casual viewers would enjoy .
" If Doctor Quincy has any next of kin I'd notify them now . " The one where Quincy gets shot .	Quincy M . E . : Even Odds starts late one night in a bar where the owner Don Peters has been shot & killed , Lt . Monahan ( Garry Walberg ) & Sgt . Brill ( Joseph Roman ) from the LAPD are there as is Los Angeles coroner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) & his laboratory assistant Sam ( Robert Ito ) . According to the bartender John Holmes ( Richard McKenzie ) his boss was shot twice by a customer named Billings ( Dennis Madalone ) but Quincy starts asking some awkward questions , then Billings is brought in having been caught just up the road . Monahan questions Billings & ask's if the gun found at the scene is his at which point Billings manages to grab the gun & start shooting , the police start shooting back & all hell breaks loose . After Billings is shot Monhan notices Quincy lying behind the bar having been shot , it's touch & go whether he will survive & it's up to Sam & his boss Dr . Asten ( John S . Ragin ) to uncover the truth & just who did shoot Quincy & why . . . Episode 6 from season 4 this Quincy story was directed by Ray Danton & apart from the awful A Test for the Living ( 1978 ) so far season four has been great & Even Odds continues that very strong start . For the majority of this episode Quincy is confined to a hospital bed ( in the series regular Doctors Hospital ) & he said enough to Sam for him to realise that not everything about Peters death & his shooting is as straight forward as it seems , there's even a nice little line of dialogue when Monahan says ' even from his bed Quincy manages to turn a simple case into a Chinese puzzle ' ! It was only five episodes ago that Sam was the one who was dying in The Last Six Hours & while this is similar that was a race against time to find an antidote whereas Even Odds is about whether Quincy will pull through or not so the tension & intrigue isn't quite there but it's still a great episode without a moral message or social issue in sight . The other notable thing about Even Odds is that there are four flashbacks all of which contain a little mini Quincy story which various character's recall ( Dr . Asten has one , Sam has one , Lt . Monahan has one & at the end they all have the same flashback together ! ) which enable them to solve the Peters murder & reveal the identity of the person who shot Quincy . So I suppose you could say that with Even Odds you get five Quincy stories in one ! At only fifty minutes long it's short , it moves along at a good pace & it passes the time harmlessly enough . According to the IMDb ' Trivia ' section for Even Odds the bullet matching technique using particles of a shattered bullet featured here & regularly used by the FBI in reality has now been discredited & no longer used . It doesn't really affect the program that much other than date it pretty badly ( & that maybe Sgt . Brill should stand trial for the murder of that hostage since the matching of his bullet was proved by a incorrect test ) , the actual technique sounds good & is plausible even though it's wrong ! Whenever a TV show like this had to show an operation they always had a point-of-view from the patient looking up as the surgeons worked & those huge operating theatre lights in the way so they didn't have to show any blood . The acting is good from all involved . Even Odds is a great Quincy episode , OK it proves why the show is called Quincy M . E . rather than Sam Fujiama M . E . ( his ' maybe I'm not Quincy but I know what I'm doing ' line said in all seriousness is hilarious when viewed in context ) but he makes for an able deputy while Quincy is fighting for his life ! An entertaining episode & a must for fans of the show .
" Holy mackerel . . . I thought this was going to be such a simple case . " Imaginative Quincy episode .	Quincy M . E . : Gone But Not Forgotten starts as Los Angeles coroner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) is called out the Regent Plazza Hotel where the dead body of reclusive billionaire Stanley Appleton Troy has been found in his executive suite with a knife stuck in his chest . Lt . Monahan ( Garry Walberg ) thinks it's an open & shut case since there is only one way into the suite , only one man Ben Mular ( Ramon Bieri ) has entered since Troy was last seen alive & his fingerprints are on the murder weapon . At first glance Quincy agrees but several things don't add up after the autopsy like why no rigour mortis ? Why the unusual blood test results ? Why the needle puncture wound on Troy's arm ? Quincy becomes convinced Mular is innocent & knows Troy was murdered by someone else , but will he be able to put the pieces of the puzzle together & prove it ? Episode 18 from season 3 this Quincy mystery was directed by Paul Kransy & is another great murder mystery , like a lot of season three this one has a neat story which is surprisingly clever with a good twist ending . It's not so much whodunit as to how they did it which provides the fun here , I won't spoil it but it's a well thought out idea which maybe is a bit far fetched but certainly isn't predictable . As usual no-one believes Quincy & he has to stake his reputation to solve the most baffling case he's ever seen so there's still plenty of scenes with Quincy tackling bureaucracy , red tape & stubborn unhelpful officials to give the episode a familiar feel . At 50 odd minutes ( without commercials ) it moves along at a nice pace , the basic mystery surrounding the events of the story is enough of a hook to keep you watching & I really rather enjoyed it . Made with competence but little style this is a bland to look at but it was probably made on a shoe-string budget . The acting is alright , like always the regular cast do a better job than the guest stars although someone called Joan Van Ark ( why does that name sound funny to me ? ) who is probably better know as Valene Ewing in the cult soap opera Dallas ( 1978 - 1991 ) & the same character in over 300 episodes of the Dallas spin-off series Knots Landing ( 1979 - 1993 ) becomes Quincy's latest conquest . Gone But Not Forgotten is a good solid Quincy murder mystery episode with a much better twist ending than usual , in fact it sort of comes out of the blue & does take you a bit by surprise . This is one of the more imaginative Quincy episodes & definitely recommended .
Good classic Quincy episode .	Quincy M . E . : Heah Hunter starts early one morning as Los Angeles chief medical examiner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) is called to the apartment of murdered air stewardess Elaine Collier ( Lynn Herring ) , there he finds Lt . Monahan ( Garry Walberg ) & the mutilated corpse of Elaine . Back at the laboratory & Quincy performs an autopsy & discovers Elaine was suffocated & then her stomach was cut open , Quincy suspects she was carrying drugs through customs in her stomach & whoever killed her wanted them . Then the case becomes tricky when narcotics cop Joe Masalla ( Eddie Fontaine ) is accused by Lt . Sal Drasso ( Joseph Sirola ) of LAPD internal affairs of killing her & stealing the drugs . With a mans life & career on the line as well as an almost undetectable method of smuggling cocaine to uncover & stop Quincy has to find a way to discover the truth . . . Episode 10 from season 6 this Quincy story was directed by Michael Vejar & is an enjoyable episode with quite a lot going on . There's the mystery revolving around the drugs , the murder mystery revolving around Elaine & her mutilations , there's the subplot about the drug smuggling , there's the investigation by internal affairs , there's the effect that the situation has on Joe Masalla as the truth comes out , there's a few good plot twists some of which are actually quite surprising & there's Quincy who is caught up in the middle of everything as one side wants him to prove Masalla was innocent while the other wants him to prove Masalla was guilty . Overall this is a very good episode , my only real complaint is that the murder of Elaine is maybe forgotten about a bit too easily & there's perhaps a touch too much time spent on Masalla , his womanising & whether he is guilty or not . At fifty odd minutes the episode moves along at a good pace , the story has several subplots which all come together quite nicely & Head Hunter is one of those Quincy episodes where there isn't a traditional happy ending & I thought it was both unusual & refreshing to see that Masalla was in fact guilty & Drasso the internal affairs guy who is painted throughout the entire episode as the bad guy who wants to ruin people's lives is actually right which everyone has to grudgingly accept at the end . Unusually there's a bit of blood in this episode & there are one or two shots of Elaine on the autopsy table although nothing graphic is shown . There's not much humour here , in fact there isn't even a happy cheesy comedy ending at Danny's which is unusual . The acting is pretty good here with Joseph Sirola standing out as the cigar chomping internal affairs guy everyone loves to hate , in the third of his five guest appearances on Quincy he has some good scenes & he & Klugman play off each other very well . Head Hunter is a good Quincy episode with plenty going on including a solid murder mystery , drug smuggling & cop corruption . I liked it but then I'm a big fan of the show anyway but I do think Head Hunter is one of those episodes that more casual viewers would like too .
Classic Quincy .	Quincy M . E . : Holding Pattern starts as flight PLL-636 lands on runway 4 at LAX , on-board are 18 passengers & 5 heavily armed terrorists . Adam Fielding ( Gerald S . O'Loughlin ) the chief of the federal hijack containment unit is in charge , the head terrorist demands a medical examiner to pick up the body of a man who died while in the air . Los Angeles coroner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) gets the job , the terrorist says that they did not kill him & they want the world to know . Quincy gets to work & quickly realises that the man died from a deadly & highly infectious virus & that everyone on the plane is in danger , not only does Quincy have to deal with armed terrorists but he has to prevent a potential epidemic of a disease which could kill millions if left to spread . . . Episode 7 from season 3 this Quincy story was directed by Ronald Satlof & is yet another fine example of Quincy as a series having a wide variety of differing story lines , I mean this time Quincy has to deal with terrorists who have hijacked a plane & stop the spread of a lethal disease . Holding Pattern is a good episode , it's something a bit different from the norm & it has a good story which moves long at a nice pace . I suppose if you were being critical I would say that the terrorists are a little too co-operative for my liking & Quincy manages to change their mind about blowing the plane up at only the second time he gets to talk with them ! Maybe he should change careers & become a hostage negotiator ! Well worth a watch if you ask me but then I'm a big fan of the series in general so maybe I'm biased . This one looks OK as usual , it's well made enough if utterly bland & unspectacular . These Quincy episodes certainly aren't much to look at that's for sure . I doubt this episode would have been made these days , almost certainly not post anyway & it's interesting to note even back then the clichéd image of a plane hijacker was a middle Eastern guy with bad moustache & an automatic machine gun . The acting is OK but I'm not sure about the terrorists middle Eastern accents at all . . . Holding Pattern is another fine Quincy episode in one of the stand-out seasons , a must for fans & I'm sure that more casual viewers would also enjoy this . I liked it .
" Just another victim . . . just another statistic . " Top Quincy with a message .	Quincy M . E . : D . U . I . starts as high powered attorney Preston Arthur Claymore ( Charles Aidman ) runs down & kills innocent pedestrian Arnold Leventhal , Claymore's blood alcohol level is tested & it comes back right off the scale . Quincy comforts Arnold's widow ( Ruth Manning ) & becomes emotionally involved when he learns that because Claymore was drunk & the laws are so weak he might get away with as little as a $355 fine & not spend a single day in prison . . . Episode 5 from season 7 this Quincy story was directed by Georg Fenady & is a good story which mixes a strong moral message with an entertaining cold blooded murder . The script obviously takes the moral high-ground when it comes to drink driving , I'm not sure how attitude's towards drink driving were back in ' 81 but perhaps it's a sad reflection on society that this storyline is still very relevant today in the year 2007 . As usual it's pretty heavy-handed but it makes it's point well enough . Thankfully the makers didn't forget that Quincy is a detective show & there's a nice twist in the story here as Claymore deliberately killed Leventhal & tried to use the leniency surrounding drink driving to get off scott free which makes for a nice parallel because in reality what is the difference ? This a good Quincy with both a moral message & a nice murder mystery for him to solve . This looks just about like any other episode , it's got OK production values but I doubt the budget's were that big . The acting is alright in this one & Klugman is always fun to watch as the passionate coroner who gets things done . D . U . I . ( which I think stands for Driving Under the Influence ) is another top Quincy episode , one of the better ones from season 7 so far in fact , well worth a watch .
" He didn't die in that accident . . . his death caused it . " More classic Quincy .	Quincy M . E . : Dead Stop has L . A . coroner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) perform an autopsy on a trucker named Hank Cheznell ( Sandy McPeak ) who supposedly died because of a road accident but he comes to the conclusion that Hank died from a poisonous gas called hydrogen chloride before the accident happened . Quincy investigates the case & realises that Hank was moonlighting & dumping illegal toxic waste which was how he came into contact with a lethal substance called phosphorous trichloride ( a real life industrial chemical used for a the manufacture of organophosphorus compounds whatever they are ) which when wet produces the deadly gas that killed Hank , with the rains about to come & 1000's of people's lives are at risk so Quincy must locate the illegal dumping site before it's too late . . . Episode 8 from season 7 this Quincy story was directed by Ray Danton & is yet another entertaining mystery with a moral message that shows how diverse & broad-ranging this series can be with it's story lines & in the issues it raises . This one obviously deals with the dangers surrounding toxic chemicals & their potential risk to the public & this is an episode where Quincy becomes involved because of an autopsy he performed & decides to follow up after it raises several questions , while this isn't a murder mystery strictly speaking there are still some death's in it & Quincy getting angrier & angrier as he searches for the phosphorous trichloride & encounters all sorts of incompetence is still as fun as ever & Klugman is on top form as usual as the coroner who does about 10 people's jobs every episode in an attempt to get thing's done . Season 7 so far has been pretty moral issue driven & while Dead Stop isn't an exception it's one of the better stories which focus on a social issue in my opinion . This is reasonably well made as usual although no Quincy episode is going to win any awards for style A quick mention for the really groovy incidental music that plays at the very start of this story , were can I get the CD ? There's a pretty decent truck crash in this one but the cable TV station which aired this stuck a commercial break half way through the truck rolling over ! Oh , & that's another thing if Hank's truck rolled over & got damaged how come his wife is driving it a day or so later & it's in perfect condition ? The acting is alright in this one . Dead Stop is another great Quincy episode but then again I'm a big fan so maybe I'm biased , personally I think this ones well worth a watch .
A great ' race against time ' episode .	Quincy M . E . : Deadly Arena starts as Los Angeles chief medical examiner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) autopsies meat delivery driver Charlie Ransler ( Michael Alldredge ) & soon after a woman named Marsha Davenport ( Mary Carver ) but finds no obvious reason as to why they died . Both seemingly unconnected Quincy is shocked to learn that they died of botulism , then an electrician named Ray Norris ( Marvin Walters ) becomes the third victim of the deadly disease . The department of health is called in & the only thing the three people have in common is that they were all at the Franlkin Field sports stadium shortly before they died , convinced that the stadium is the source Quincy has a race against time to find it before a big football match takes place which over 90 , 000 spectators are due to watch in the stadium . . . Episode 21 from season 5 this Quincy story was directed by Jeffrey Hayden & is maybe my favourite ' race against time ' plot based episode of Quincy . Here instead of a human killer the villain of this Deadly Arena is botulism which makes for a bit of variety without foregoing the detective & entertainment aspect of the show unlike the moralistic episodes which can be deathly dull affairs . The story is good , the pace is good & it's nice to see Quincy tackle all types of stories , the threat seems plausible & real & the stadium setting is quite cool as Quincy fights against bureaucracy as usual when the stadium director is more interested in money than the spectators lives . Quincy the sly old dog just can't help himself can he ? Heere in Deadly Arena he meets female health inspector Janey Carlye & within two minutes is chatting her up , he just doesn't waste any time does he ? Quincy says that he thinks she is ' beautiful ' to which she replies ' your not so bad yourself ' ! Wow , he has just got the midas touch when it comes to the ladies hasn't he ? This is just a great episode with a good setting , good character's & overall Deadly Arena is very entertaining with a good believable threat although the ending does feel a little rushed . It's nice to know that Quincy actually knows who the great Pele is but it's not nice to hear Americans constantly refer to football as soccer . The game is called football people not soccer . The tournament in Deadly Arena is entirely fictitious , the organisers claim it's the ' soccer wold cup championship's ' that only come around once every four years . Well there was no world cup during 1980 & at this point America had never held it anyway although that changed when they did stage it during 1994 . I don't know where this was shot but I can find no evidence of a Franlkin Fields stadium anywhere . The acting is alright although I think Quincy was a little hasty to describe Janet as beautiful . . . Deadly Arena is a fine classic Quincy episode that I really liked , it's just a shame about the rushed ending . Fans of the show should like it & anyone looking for a entertaining way to pass fifty odd minutes should too .
Great Quincy episode .	Quincy M . E . : Dead and Alive starts as a White Messenger courier van catches fire & crashes into a petrol station causing a huge explosion . Los Angeles finest Lt . Monahan ( Garry Walberg ) & medical examiner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) are called to the scene , a badly burned body is found inside the van which is initially thought to be that of courier Peter Neilson ( Bruce Wright ) . No positive identification can be made although all the evidence points towards Peter . Meanwhile Peter's sister Carol ( Ayn Ruymen ) tells Quincy that has spoken to her brother on the phone so it cannot be him which puzzles Quincy , since no positive identification can be made on the badly burnt body Quincy is inclined to believe her & sets out to find the truth one way or the other . . . Episode 7 from season 4 this Quincy story was directed by James Benson & is very enjoyable as well as proving that Quincy as a series could handle a wide variety of interesting & different stories . Here despite almost overwhelming evidence to the contrary Quincy sets out to prove that Peter Neilson is still alive & badly injured somewhere , it's neat little story story actually & I don't think I've seen anything similar in any other series . It's not all about dead bodies , Quincy is often about finding the truth although it generally starts with a dead body . Dead and Alive is a great episode , there's crime , there's drama , there's some humour , there's Quincy having to fight against bureaucracy & there's a good solid story although one has to say maybe it's a little bit predictable . It's still fun though & well worth fifty minutes of anyones time . The start of Dead and Alive sees some pretty cool stunt work as a van explodes , crashes into a petrol station & the whole thing blows up in spectacular style . The acting is pretty good as usual although predictably the regulars are just better with the format & what is required . I think I'm right in saying that the Richard O'Brien in this episode is not that same one who appeared in the cult The Rocky Horror Picture Show ( 1975 ) or hosted The Crystal Maze ( 1990 - 1993 ) TV game show . Dead and Alive is a quality crime driven Quincy episode with an original & entertaining story that I enjoyed a lot . A must for fans & TV detective show lovers everywhere .
Very entertaining episode .	Quincy M . E . : Dear Mummy starts in Aswan in Egypt where Nazi war criminal Carl Fresser ( Robert Emhardt ) & his associate Stikler ( Albert Paulsen ) agree to smuggle thirty million dollars worth of ancient gems into America & sell them to German thief Major Rudolph Eichelmann ( Than Wyenn ) using an ancient Egyptian Mummy which is intended to go on exhibition at the ' Los Angeles County Museum of Natural History ' which Dr . Asten ( John S . Ragin ) happens to be a member of the board of directors & as such has convinced the others to let him , Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) & the pathology department examine the ancient Mummy & study it . However US customs agents Brice ( John Karlen ) & Niven ( Edward Grover ) are onto Stikler's plans & convince Quincy to help them get the gems & their man but things get complicated when the gems go missing & seem to leave a trail of dead bodies in their wake . . . Episode 9 from season 6 this Quincy story was directed by Georg Fenady & just after I was starting to lose faith in the sixth season there's two terrific episodes in a row , Stain of Guilt & this Dear Mummy which is a lot of fun . There's no moral or social issues in this one at all & thank God is all I can say . Dear Mummy has just about everything except the kitchen sink , there's international gem smuggling plots , ancient Egyptian Mummies , plot twists , double crosses , murder , mayhem , several dead bodies , the Israeli secret service pops up , there's a Nazi war criminal , poisonings , agents Brice & Niven return from Hot Ice ( 1979 ) & Diplomatic Immunity ( 1980 ) from season five & there's even time for Danny to get kidnapped & held to ransom . This is a great episode , full of humour , some good character's including some returning ones & if anything one might actually say there's too much going on although that keeps the pace fast which is no bad thing . If you ignore one or two plot holes ( how did Stikler switch the real Mummy with Cameron's dead body ? ) & just go with it then Dear Mummy is great fun . At fifty odd minutes this crime mystery drama with a touch of light hearted humour about it is well worth a watch & fans of the show , like myself , should enjoy it . There are a couple of points in Dear Mummy where stock footage of an Egyptian market place is used , obviously the production team couldn't afford to fly & shoot what amounts to a few minutes of screen time in Egypt itself so sets were built & the difference between the stock footage & then the sets as the programme cuts between the two is really jarring but sort of amusing as well . Dear Mummy was the third & as it turned out the final time US customs agents Brice & Niven featured in the series . The acting is alright but some of the accents are a little suspect but that all adds to the fun of the episode . Strangely the music in Dear Mummy is also very slapstick & comical in nature even when nothing particularly humorous is happening on screen which sounds a bit odd at times . Former Miss Jamaica & one time Bond girl in Thunderball ( 1965 ) Martine Beswick provides the glamour as an Israeli secret service agent ! Dear Mummy is definitely one of the few highlights of a generally disappointing sixth season of Quincy , fans of the show should love it & more casual viewers should also find something here to enjoy .
" If you die first I'm definitely going to eat you . " OK period horror .	Ravenous is set during the 1847 Mexican-American civil war where Capatin John Boyd ( Guy Pearce ) is found out to be a coward & sent to Fort Spencer in California deep in the Western Sierra Nevadas , a station for travellers in the middle of nowhere run by a bunch of social rejects & misfits . It's John's first night there & he notices a man outside , the man is helped inside the fort & given medical treatment . The man identifies himself as Colqhoun ( Robert Carlyle ) & that he was a member of an ill-fated party of prospectors who were caught out by the harsh winter , they all took shelter in a cave but quickly ran out of food . Colqhoun then says that they turned to cannibalism to survive as they began to die from malnutrition . . . Colonel Hart ( Jeffery Jones ) organises an expedition to search for any other possible survivors , Colqhoun , John , Private Reich ( Neal McDonough ) , Private Toffler ( Jeremy Davis ) & an Indian named George ( Joseph Runningfox ) head off to the cave to see what horror lie within . Once there they quickly discover that Colqhoun's story is a lie & he is the cannibal , a cannibal who can't get enough human flesh to satisfy his hunger . . . Directed by Antonia Bird I thought Ravenous was an OK film but didn't quite do enough for me . The script by Ted Griffin is a bit of a mess when you think about it , there are supernatural elements involved which are never fully explained , the character's are a bit thin as Boyd hardly says a word throughout the entire film which make sit almost impossible to care about him & the Colonel Ives character is sketchy to say the least , if he was indeed a Colonel what was he doing stuck in a cave in the middle of nowhere ? Is Ravenous a horror film , or is it a historical drama , a thriller or maybe a black comedy ? I think it tries to all of these things but doesn't quite manage to strike the right balance between any of them . There are scenes of people bing miraculously healed & a stupid bit when Boyd jumps of a cliff & survives ( I don't care that those trees broke his fall , from the height he jumped he would have died ) . There are some decent ideas here & in the right hands it might have made for an effective horror , the twist involving Colqhoun & the subsequent confrontations between himself & Boyd could have been great but instead the best the film can do is have Boyd shut a book loudly next to Boyd so as to make him jump , great stuff . I was also seriously disappointed with the cannibal aspects of the story , it's only ever really talked about & I was hoping to see some nice gore , it never happened . Having said all that the film is pretty fun to watch , there's a fair bit to it , there's some decent plot twist's , it's something a bit different , it moves along at a fair pace & it kept me watching right through to the end if nothing else . Director Bird was the third choice to direct & a last minute replacement for Milcho Manchevski who only lasted two weeks into production , she does a fine job & captures the Czech Republic & Slovakian ( where it was filmed in reality ) scenery very well . There isn't much in the way of shocks or scares & while some say Ravenous is a very gory film I have to disagree , there is not one scene in Ravenous of someone engaging in cannibalism , well there is one brief bit but it turns out to be a dream sequence so it doesn't count , the stew scene doesn't count either as it looks like normal stew . There's a gory bit at the end when Major Knox ( Stephen Spinella ) is killed & chopped up on a chopping block but it lasts for a few seconds at most , the rest of the gore in Ravenous consists of some skeletons with bits of flesh & gristle hanging off , some dead animals , a couple of people with their stomachs cut open , a whole lot of fake blood & the best gore scene when someone has their throat slashed open with much blood spurtage as a result . With a fairly restrained budget of about $12 , 000 , 000 Ravenous still had a decent amount of cash to play with , the film is undoubtedly well made , the costumes & period settings look authentic enough & it has that Hollywood polish about it . The music in Ravenous seems to divide opinion , personally I hated it , it ruins certain scenes that with appropriate music could have been so much more effective . The acting was alright , Pearce hardly says a word & just walks around in a world of his own most of the time , Carlyle is great as the villain . David Arquette as Private Cleaves is barely in it despite almost top billing . Overall I was a bit disappointed by Ravenous , I don't buy the metaphor's , messages & moral dilemmas that the film seems to suggest as I couldn't take it that seriously . I think it's well worth a watch & is an entertaining film but ultimately it could have been so much better , good but not brilliant .
Enjoyable classic Quincy .	Quincy M . E . : Passing starts in a desert roadside diner as Los Angeles coroner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) & his lab assistant Sam ( Robert Ito ) discuss the coroner's convention they have just attended & returning to LA from , a group of rowdy bikers enter the diner & Sam feels uneasy so he persuades Quincy to leave his hamburger & hit the highway . Outside Quincy notices one of the bikers motorbikes has a human skull mounted on the handlebars , instantly intrigued where it came from Quincy takes a look & sees that the teeth were knocked out to hamper identification & that the person who it belonged to probably died from a massive blow to the head . Quincy buy's the skull from the bikers & calls in facial reconstruction expert Lynn Peters ( Zohra Lampert ) to rebuild the persons face , after a bit of detective work Quincy becomes convinced the skull belonged to missing trade union president David Lockwood who mysteriously disappeared two years , three months & five days prior after supposedly stealing two & a half million dollars from a pension fund . Now Quincy has to find his killer . . . Episode 15 from season 3 this Quincy story was directed by David Alexander this is a good solid Quincy episode . I liked the idea behind the facial reconstruction to identify a body & I would have thought this technique would have been pretty new back in ' 78 , in fact you can tell how dated this episode is when Sam & Quincy are talking in the diner at the start & Quincy says that soon they will be able to identify someone from a single drop of their blood ! We've been able to do that for years already . The mystery elements are good & it draws you in although there are one or two issues which I was less satisfied with . For instance Quincy ask's Monahan for a list of people who have gone missing during the past two years , well it turns out Lockwood went missing two years & three months prior so how did he end up on the list ? Secondly as soon as Monahan says the name David Lockwood Quincy automatically assumes it's him even to extent where he visits his wife & friends at that point without any proof whatsoever , to be honest Quincy could have picked any name from Monahan's list & stood as much chance of being right so why did he assume it was Lockwood ? The very fact he was right is surely a million to one shot ? In a way that's like getting a list of the names of 100's of people you don't know or have never heard of , then being told one of them has won the lottery , randomly picking one & being absolutely right with your first guess ! I suppose if you get over the huge leap of logic Passing is a fun enough episode with enough mystery , incident & some interesting detective work by Quincy using his medical skills to justify 50 odd minutes of your time . This one is competently made as usual but rather bland to look at these days . I'm not happy about the plot point where David Lockwood was apparently a black man but was light skinned enough to pass himself off as white , the part of the story where the title Passing comes from . I'm sorry but by definition a black man has dark skin & I find it very hard to believe anyone of that origin could be light enough to pass themselves off as white , even back in ' 78 I doubt many people were convinced by this part of the plot . The acting is OK , Simon Oakland who played Sal Jarrett makes the first of his four guest appearances on Quincy where he played four different character's in four different episodes ranging from a US senator to a car mechanic ! Passing is a good Quincy episode , your going to have to get over a few plot holes & some rushed logic but overall I liked this one . A must for fans of the show .
Enjoyable Quincy episode .	Quincy M . E . : Of All Sad Words starts as Los Angeles medical examiner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) rushes to the scene of a huge fire which is burning a nightclub down to the ground , there he meets the beautiful Elizabeth Chessler ( Darleen Car ) who fears that her gangster husband Lou ( Borah Silver ) may have been inside . Her fears turn out to be true & Lou's dead body is found inside the burnt nightclub remains , after the autopsy Quincy concludes Lou died from heart failure & puts it down as a natural death . Quincy quickly falls in love with the charming & attractive Elizabeth but not everyone believes her story & insurance investigator Aaron Zacharian ( Val Avery ) is convinced she is a murderer . Quincy seems blinded by his affection for Elizabeth & his friends start to worry as they think he may become Elizabeth's next victim . . . Episode 15 from season 6 this Quincy story was directed by Bob Bender & after a hit & miss sort of season six Of All Sad Words has restored some faith & I am pleased to report that there isn't a single moral or social issue or message in sight . Of All Sad Words is a strange episode in a few ways , for a start Quincy falls in love like a schoolboy & he neglects everything in his life that is important to him , his job & his friends in particular which has never happened before in the show . Then there's the sequence when Quincy fixes some laboratory results which might implicate Elizabeth in her husbands murder which I found so out of character I didn't quite know what to make of it . Quincy has always had great integrity , honesty & respect for his work as he fights for justice & truth for the dead , for the dead who can't fight for themselves anymore & for him to alter autopsy tests just seemed a million miles from the Quincy character of the previous five & a half seasons . For a start he should have been sacked immediately when his fake tests were discovered just like Dr . Moore was in the Quincy episode Last Day , First Day ( 1980 ) from the start of season six , I mean what was the difference ? What makes Quincy different here to Dr . Moore in Last Day , First Day ? Yes I know he did it to set Elizabeth up & discover the truth but why didn't he tell anyone else what he was doing ? Also Quincy's tampering with equipment affected other test results in the laboratory so by his irresponsible actions another murderer could have gone free & wrong test results obtained . Other than that huge misgiving about Quincy's actions Of All Sad Words is a good episode , there's murder , intrigue , mystery , some good character's & a side of Quincy we have never seen before although I have no idea who Alex was at the end or where he came from ! For those interested the title Of All Sad Words actually refers to a quote by nineteenth century poet John Greenleaf Whitter that goes ' For of all sad words of tongue or pen , the saddest of these , " It might have been ! " which is quoted by both Quincy & Elizabeth on several occasions during this episode . The acting is pretty good , Darleen Car provides the glamour & you can see why Quincy falls for her while Val Avery is good as the persistent insurance investigator . Of All Sad Words is a good murder mystery Quincy episode in which Quincy finds himself in danger when he falls in love but the sequence when he alters laboratory tests to help her just doesn't sit too well with me & is at odds with Quincy's character , his honesty & integrity .
More classic Quincy .	Quincy M . E . : Jury Duty starts as Los Angeles coroner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) opens his mail & learns he has been selected for jury duty , something he is looking forward to . The case which he has to hear concerns the death of Shirley Ann Larrabee ( Margueritte Ray ) & her boyfriend Frank Munson ( Morgan Stevens ) who is accused of her rape & murder , while hearing the prosecution evidence Quincy becomes concerned & feels a lot of the forensic evidence is severely flawed but he is not allowed to interfere in the case . Can Quincy somehow use his expertise & medical knowledge to stop a miscarriage of justice even though the law forbids it ? Episode 12 from season 6 this Quincy story was directed by Georg Fenady & is yet another top mystery . The script by Preston Wood isn't a straight forward murder mystery but instead goes inside the court room where Quincy has to prevent the conviction of an innocent man by using his own skill's , it's a neat idea which works well & is something that bit different from the usual episode blueprint . Most of the regular cast take a back seat in this episode , there isn't much of a moral message in this episode either as it gets on with it's mystery elements & lets Quincy do what he does best & to honest that's how I prefer them . It moves along at a nice pace , it never bores , it has a simple yet effective hook in the story & is yet another great Quincy episode . OK , so there is a small moral message here at the end when Quincy says everyone's eyes were closed & didn't try to look for any other explanation , I mean there had to be one right ? A good , solid entertaining episode . The acting is alright in this episode , I didn't like Joan Darling as the judge that much but generally speaking everyone does OK . Jury Duty is another fine Quincy episode , a must for fans of the show but I'm sure many would find much to like here . Definitely well worth a watch .
The cut down 45 minutes version .	Quincy M . E . : Hot Ice , Cold Hearts starts in Mexico city where thieves Alex ( Andrew Prine ) & Lisa ( Marianna Hill ) break into the national museum & steal $4 million worth of diamond jewellery . Cut to Catalina where LA coroner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) & his woman Lee ( Lynette Mettey ) are planning to enjoy the Independence Day 4th July celebrations on his boat , unfortunately it's not long before Quincy is called into action when a man named Juan ( Ron Hasson ) is taken seriously ill & later dies under mysterious circumstances . Quincy thinks he has been poisoned by a Stonefish but all the local marine experts say there are no Stonefish in Catalina , after several more suspicious incidents Quincy believes Juan was murdered but no-one will take his claims seriously . . . Episode 4 from season 1 this Quincy story was directed by Bruce Kessler & is more classic Quincy that should please fans of the show . I should say that Hot Ice , Cold Hearts was originally a feature length episode but was edited down at some point to make it run the same time as the episodes when Quincy became a regular series & it's this shorter 45 minute version that I will be basing my comments on although the version readily available on DVD is the longer one , it's all very confusing . . . The script on this one has a decent enough mystery behind it & develops the Quincy character as someone who can't let go & always fights for the truth , the diamond heist theme is pretty good as well . This one moves along at a fast pace & at times this shorter version seems to take huge strides forward in a very short space of time & I would image thats down to the editing out of 30 odd minutes of footage . I prefer it when Quincy is in the lab rather than on a holiday & I must admit I don't like his female friend Lee either , I just find her annoying & superficial . She feels almost like a token woman just because there has to be one in the cast . This one hasn't dated too badly , it still looks OK but isn't going to win any awards for style . It's well made enough on location . The acting is alright & it was nice to see Stuart Whitman turn up as a Sheriff . Hot Ice , Cold Hearts is a solid classic early episode of Quincy , if you don't like the show they you won't like this but if your a fan then it's a must see .
An almost perfect episode of Quincy .	Quincy M . E . : Hot Ice starts at Los Angeles airport where after a twenty hour flight a man named Vito ( Charlie Picerni ) runs out in front of a bus & gets himself killed , Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) performs the autopsy & discovers 20 stolen diamonds worth two million dollars inside a fake pacemaker in his chest . Two customs officials Agents Bryce ( John Karlen ) & Niven ( Edward Grover ) asks Quincy to help them , they had been tailing Vito in an attempt to catch Las Vegas crime boss Andre Otero ( David Sheiner ) in possession of the stolen jewel's after the trade . It just so happens Quincy is on his way to Las Vegas to judge the Miss Coroner contest & is set up by the two custom agents to make the trade himself , what could possibly go wrong . . . All the fives episode 5 from season 5 this Quincy story was directed by Ray Danton & for the first forty five minutes Hot Ice was set to be one of my all time favourite Quincy episodes , unfortunately there are too many loose ends & plot holes which spoil it for me although I still found it very enjoyable . I think the main strength & at the same time it's main problem is that Hot Ice tries to do too much , there's the sub plot where everything goes wrong for Quincy , there's the trip to Las Vegas , there are the two customs agents , there are the comedy relief scenes around the Miss Coroner contest , there are the diamonds , there is a death & an autopsy at the start , there's Quincy being tricked , there's the trade which goes wrong & then there's the climax which involves a killer who uses a poisoned cane & Quincy's fight for life as his friends desperately search for answers . There's just too much going on , while it's nice to have lots of things happening there isn't enough time to tie everything together . My main problem is the killer Eddie Parker , who is he ? What did he want ? Who was he working for ? If anyone . I can understand why he killed Vito to try & steal the diamonds but why try to kill Quincy ? He made no attempt to take the diamonds from him so again I ask why ? Why not kill Otero & his men ? They were the ones who ended up with the diamonds . Parker wasn't working for Otero either because if he was why did Otero order his men to hurt Quincy & make an example out of him if he knew Quincy had been poisoned & was going to die anyway ? They certainly never met each other & there is no indication that Parker worked for Otero so who was Parker ? What did he have to do with it ? What was his plan ? Nothing fits , it just doesn't make any sense if you think about it for more than a few minutes which is a shame because otherwise Hot Ice is excellent , it's funny , the character's are great , the dialogue is amusing , there's another great performance by Klugman & it's just a great episode apart from some glaring plot holes . Not to be confused with the similar titled Quincy episode Hot Ice , Cold Hearts ( 1977 ) from season one also about stolen diamonds . There is also a sloppy script continuity error here , Quincy sees Otero with one of the twenty diamonds planted on him by the two customs agents . Otero finds the diamond & says he wants the rest , later the two customs agents give Quincy the rest of the diamonds in a pouch to make the trade but clearly state that ' all twenty diamonds are there ' but if Quincy had been given one to temp Otero it should have been nineteen diamonds since Otero already had one . The final fifteen minutes of Hot Ice is very similar to The Last Six Hours ( 1978 ) during season four in which Sam is poisoned & Quincy has to find a cure only this time the roles are reversed . Hot Ice is also the second time in a year in which Quincy has been nearly murdered after he was shot by a suspect in Even Odds ( 1978 ) during season four . Custom agents Bryce & Niven would return to Quincy in another couple of episodes . Hot Ice could have been one of the greatest Quincy episodes ever , it had it all with a murder , diamond smuggling , humour , funny character's , a race against time to save Quincy's life & a deadly cane wielding killer but it doesn't quite come together & ends up being a little bit frustrating .
" I said stop blaming yourself not start blaming us . " More classic Quincy .	Quincy M . E . : Memories of Allison starts as L . A . county coroner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) & his lab assistant Sam ( Robert Ito ) are giving out career advice when Quincy spots a woman ( Sharon Acker ) in a panic who stumbles on an escalator & knocks herself out . The woman is taken to hospital where she is diagnosed with post traumatic amnesia & personal memory loss , that night an attempt on her life is made by an assassin but a cop saves her . Quincy takes an interest in her & tries to help her remember who she is but when she is kidnapped & murdered Quincy is determined to bring her killers to justice . . . Episode 1 from season 7 this Quincy story was directed by Georg Fenady & was a good solid way to kick of the seventh season . The script is a bit patchy as it starts off with an in intriguing plot hook before it sags for about 15 minutes as it concentrates building up sympathy for Allison & her situation before surprisingly killing her off in an unexpected plot development when the episode then becomes classic Quincy as he uses his medical expertise to find a killer . This one moves along at a decent pace , there's a fair amount going on & the basic story is pretty entertaining although I didn't like the character of Allison that much & I'm not sure why or in what capacity an L . A . coroner would be allowed to babysit & help a woman with with amnesia . This one is well made but undistinguished & the guest cast do OK . Memories of Allison is a bit uneven but is still a fine Quincy story where things don't turn out as you might first think , I love the show so maybe I'm biased but I think it's well worth 50 odd minutes of your time .
Enjoyable Quincy episode .	Quincy M . E . : The Death Challenge starts as Los Angeles coroner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) is enjoying a romantic evening on his boat with his latest girlfriend Maggie ( Jo Ann Pflug ) , they watch a show on telly in which Mark Santini the protégé of the famous magician Harry Whitehead ( Don Ameche ) attempts to perform the dangerous ' death challenge ' trick in which he is handcuffed , placed in a bag which is then placed in a locked wooden crate which is then placed in a locked clear box which is then placed in a huge tank of water & the trick is to get out before you drown . Unfortunately the trick goes wrong & on live national telly Mark drowns , the next morning & Quincy has to perform the autopsy to discover whether Marks death was an accident or murder . After the autopsy Quincy is convinced Mark was murdered , but by whom & for what reason . . . Episode 22 from season 4 this Quincy story was directed by Ronald Satlof & is a great episode , forget all that outdated moralistic nonsense that belongs in the 70's The Death Challenge is a good old fashioned murder mystery all the way where Quincy has to use his medical knowledge & skills to find a killer . These are the sort of Quincy episode I enjoy the most & while The Death Challenge isn't the best episode out there I found it very enjoyable , The Death Challenege actually reminds me of the Columbo episode Now You See Him ( 1976 ) which also involved a murderous magician even down to the fact that one of the character's is called the Great Santini ! The plot has various suspects who could have done it as well as having a motive without ever making the true murderer too obvious , at only fifty minutes it moves along at a decent pace & there's the usual touches of humour & watching Quincy run around trying to solve a case is pretty entertaining in itself . While watching The Death Challenge I couldn't help but think that a major TV network wouldn't keep broadcasting a magic trick that has killed one person & almost killed another , surely it would leave them open to all sorts of lawsuits & I doubt it would be particularly good publicity either . I think The Death Challenge is the only Quincy episode in which we get to see laboratory assistant Sam in his swimming trunks ! The acting is OK & veteran actor Martin Kove makes an appearance . The Death Challenge is a great Quincy episode which is murder mystery all the way & there isn't a single moral message or issue in sight & thats good enough for me .
" In regards to your Goose I'd say it was well & truly cooked . " More classic Midsomer Murders .	Midsomer Murders : Blood Will Out is set in the Midsomer village of Martyr Warren where traveller Orville Tudway ( Kevin McNally ) & a few of his friends arrive , they park their caravans on Will ( John Duttine ) & Muriel Saxby's ( Elizabeth Garvie ) land which annoys & irritates rich local magistrate & Falkland's war hero Major Hector Bridges ( Paul Jesson ) . When one of the Major's Geese mysteriously disappears he calls in DCI Tom Barnaby ( John Nettles ) & Sgt . Troy ( Daniel Casey ) to investigate , the Major points the finger at Orville . Then another group of travellers pitch up on a green outside the local Church , during a pony chariot race organised by the travellers Major Bridges is shot dead in his own manor house & a simple PR exercise to keep a powerful magistrate happy becomes a full blown murder investigation for Barnaby . He has to sort through all the lies to find the killer , a task not made any easier by the fact the entire village seemed to hate the Major who was a pretty nasty piece of work . . . Episode 4 from season 2 this Midsomer Murders mystery was the final story from the second season & out of the first two seasons which contain nine stories there hasn't been a bad one yet , while Blood Will Out doesn't quite reach the lofty heights set by some of the earlier stories it's still a great crime drama & it's as simple & straight forward as that . Directed by Moira Armstrong & written by Douglas Watkinson this story has all the essential parts for a terrific mystery , there's the usual assortment of fine character's many of whom could have done it , there's the careful well thought out back-story & various red herrings which are thrown in there to confuse us & the part I like best it has a great twist ending which I admit I did guess before it was revealed although I doubt many will , maybe I was just lucky . One part of this story I didn't think worked that well was the second death of John Smith the traveller , once it has been committed Barnaby almost seems to ignore it on purpose & continues to exclusively concentrate on the Major's death & I'd almost forgotten about it by the time an explanation for it was given . Also why didn't Barnaby charge Orville for cruelty to animals or theft in regards to the Goose he stole & ate ? Still , they are small quibbles as the Major's murder was at the center of everything anyway so it doesn't matter a whole lot . This is yet another top murder mystery from this quality crime drama that's as good as anything out there in this genre , as usual I liked it & found it both engrossing & intriguing which is one of the show's real strengths . This story features a humorous subplot about Barnaby being forced to diet by his wife & daughter , it doesn't get in the way of the main story but is a light hearted & amusing addition to the script . The English locations are nice to look at , the real life village of Hambleden in Buckinghamshire was used as Martyr Warren . This would be a great show to film in HD ( High Definition ) as the extra detail on the beautiful locations would make it worthwhile right down to the individual blades of grass . There's a scenes when someone is killed with a shotgun which has some blood splatter & there's a dead body with a head wound so if you don't like the sight of blood be warned . The acting as always is top notch . Blood Will Out doesn't quite reach the standards of the earlier Anthony Horowitz written / Jeremy Silberston directed episodes but is still a great Midsomer Murders & isn't too far behind them . This is the last episode of season 2 & there hasn't been a bad one yet !
Classic crime solving Quncy .	Quincy M . E . : The Face of Fear starts as housebound agoraphobia sufferer Victoria McGuire ( Carrie Snodgress ) decides t take her dog Ralph for a short walk on the Malibu beach where she lives , at first she's nervous & tentative & things get worse when she witnesses the murder of a young Hispanic woman ( Connie Ramirez ) through the window of a beach house . Victoria calls the police & Lt . Monahan ( Garry Walbeg ) is on the case , however when he checks out the supposed murder scene there is no evidence of a struggle , there is no body & the owner of the house Nick Ganziano ( Paul Mantee ) looks nothing like the killer . Monahan puts it down to an over active imagination but Vctoria's doctor Alicia Ranier ( Dixie Carter ) is an old friend of Quincy's & calls on the canny coroner's help to solve a murder with as yet no body . . . Episode 19 from season 7 this Quincy story was directed Bob Bender & this one tries to highlight the social issue of people suffering from agoraphobia which is an anxiety disorder where suffers might experience a panic attack in situations too far from their own personal comfort zone , I know that this is a condition which many people suffer from but it's such an odd thing for me personally to try & understand & relate to that it almost seems as far fetched & unbelievable as the average Quincy plot ! Luckily though the makers managed to keep this side of the story down to a minimum & focus on the murder mystery elements a little more than in a lot of season 7 so far which I for one think was a very good decision , I mean I like a good moral message as the next guy but the reason I like Quincy so much is because of the detective side of the show . To be honest here in The Face of Fear it's not much of a mystery because he killer is revealed straight away & it's more of a case of watching Quincy track him down & prove there was a murder in the first place , overall a good solid episode that's a bit different & has a neat murder as it's basic premise . There's not much to say about this episode except Quincy gets to visit a very cold looking Malibu beach , purely for work purposes though . Future Star Trek : The Next Generation ( 1987 - 1994 ) star Jonathan Frakes who played Commander William T . Riker in 177 episodes of the sci-fi series turns up here in an early role as a cocaine dealing murderer . The Face of Fear is another top Quincy episode that is different to much of season 7 as it focuses more on the crime element of the story rather than a moral or social issue & for that reason alone it has to be one of the seasons best & most watchable .
" You just couldn't have your tooth ache somewhere else could ya . " Similar to the first , but still very good .	The Dentist 2 starts in the Los Angeles mental institution that the crazy dentist Dr . Alan Feinstone ( Corbin Bernsen , returning from The Dentist ( 1996 ) to reprise his role ) is currently locked up inside . As he discusses his mental state with Dr . Cussler ( Rende Rae Norman ) he pulls a weapon out of a wound on his leg , holds it to her throat & makes his escape . . . Feinstone heads for a small rural town in Missouri called Paradise where he has stashed a load of cash under the name Dr . Lawrence Caine in one of the banks safety deposit boxes . He claims the money & is introduced by the bank manager Jeremy Wilkes ( Jeff Doucette ) to his attractive niece Jamie Devers ( Jillian McWhirter ) who offers him the opportunity to rent a small cottage she owns , Feinstone accepts . Shortly after one of Feinstone's caps in his teeth falls out & has to visit the local dentist Dr . Burns ( Jim Antonio ) who does a less than satisfactory job , in a fit of rage Feinstone kills Burns & makes it look like an accident . Feinstone is offered the opportunity of becoming Paradise's new dentist , he accepts . However he starts to lose his mind again in fits of jealousy over Jamie whom he has fallen in love with , one of the banks employees Bev ( Susanne Wright ) becomes suspicious & a private eye ( Ralph Martin ) hired by his tongueless vengeful wife Brooke ( Linda Hoffman ) discovers his whereabouts as his cosy new existence is threatened & begins to fall apart . . . Directed by Brian Yuzna The Dentist 2 plays a lot like the original . The script by Richard Dana Smith once again contains infidelity , moral decay , low dental hygiene standards & Feinstone taking his frustrations out on his unlucky patients as he slowly starts to lose his marbles , again . The main difference is that the film takes place in a rural setting rather than a big city , maybe The Dentist 2 is trying to say that decay eventually spreads everywhere ? It moves along at a fair pace although the varying story threads do take a while to come together & it doesn't really kick into gear until about the hour mark . Again like the original anyone who is afraid of going to the dentist may want to give this film a miss as it features some cool , but maybe disturbing to some , dental torture scenes as Dr . Feinstone is a man who enjoys his job . . . The Dentist 2 is more of a character study of the mental breakdown of a man rather than a teenage slasher film that have proved so popular , it's as much a psycho thriller as a horror . The character's are well developed & fleshed out which is unusual in a low budget horror such as this & I have to give it credit for being different & making an effort . Director Yuzna again delights in forcing the viewer to witness all sorts of dental torture & it's pretty strong stuff , scenes of plaque removers sticking into people's gums , dentist's drills destroying teeth & gums , exposed nerves , cut off tongues , a dream sequence which features a mouth full of crawling cockroaches , teeth mercilessly being pulled out , a hammer in someone's head , a needle stuck in someone's ear & a nasty torture scene when Bev really gets it . . . With a budget of about $1 , 800 , 000 The Dentist 2 is a very well made film throughout . The special effects are good & the acting is too with Bernsen really getting into the spirit of things , the now silent Linda Hoffman returns & she's still a bit of a babe . The Dentist 2 is a worthy sequel & a good film although I couldn't help but think it was very similar to the original , which in itself isn't a particularly bad thing . Well worth watching especially if you have a phobia about the dentist , it'll leave mental scars . . .
" You only have to be breathed on by the wrong person & your as good as dead . " Classic two part Quincy .	Quincy M . E . : Slow Boat to Madness : Part 1 starts as L . A . county coroner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) & his lady friend Dr . Janet Carlyle ( Diana Muldaur ) prepare for a relaxing vacation on a cruise ship , they fly to Thaihiti where they board the ship & set sail . However their plans for a great time suffer a setback when first a passenger jumps overboard & drowns while another kills a crew-member before dying himself . Captain Edwards ( Ed Nelson ) calls on Quincy & Janet to help , working together they quickly discover that there is a mysterious & very deadly virus spreading throughout the ship & everyone on board is at risk . . . Episode 3 from season 7 this two part Quincy story was directed by Daniel Haller & is another top medical mystery & one where Quincy gets out of the laboratory which makes for a nice change of pace . The script this time has no intention of making a heavy-handed moral point & is pretty much action all the way , it moves along at a nice pace & has some typical Quincy humour along with the death & despair . Klugman is just great to watch as usual although you can tell the producers wanted story lines that were more personal for Quincy as here they try to set him up with a potential wife in Janet , luckily this doesn't overshadow the main mystery elements of Slow Boat to Madness which are strong to retain ones interest & the main reason I think most watch the show . This part has built the situation up nicely & my only real criticism is that some of the character's are a bit one dimensional although I'm looking forward to part 2 . Obviously shot on a real cruise ship this one looks pretty good , there are a few bizarre hallucination scenes including one which involves a slot machine full of eel's & snails . Most of the regular cast like Sam , Dr . Asten & Lt . Monahan only feature for a few seconds at the start but the guest cast do OK except the two trying to be Russians as their accents are just plain awful . Slow Boat to Madness : Part 1 is another very watchable Quincy story that gets back to the show's roots by having Quincy solve a mystery rather than try to put the world to rights singlehandedly . Well worth a watch for mystery fans .
A great Quincy episode .	Quincy M . E . : Sleeping Dogs is set in the small American town of Mill Falls where L . A . coroner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) is testifying in the trial of Henry Muller ( Brion James ) a thuggish bully who is accused of murder , it's a pretty straight forward case as indisputable evidence points to Muller . However two key witnesses are pressurized by Muller so one doesn't even turn up to testify while the other lies on the stand , without the witness testimony the case is dismissed & Muller goes free . Quincy talks to the local Sheriff Frank Ollano ( John Anderson ) to try & get a retrial when a phone call comes in to say Henry Muller has been shot dead in a local store , the Sheriff & Quincy rush over there & find Henry shot six times . Even though it's a clear case of murder six different men all claim to have fired one bullet so who fired the fatal one ? Quincy is determined to find out but finds Henry's past victims start covering up for one another . . . Episode 6 from season 8 this Quincy story was directed by Georg Fenady & is a great murder mystery , the sort of Quincy episode which we haven't had during season 8 so far . Sleeping Dogs just gets back to the classic Quincy formula where a crime or murder is committed & he has to use his medical skills & knowledge to uncover the truth , it's a simple yet effective plot for a show & this is the first time in season 8 that Quincy has had a good old fashioned murder to solve . I liked the small town setting , the basic murder plot is pretty good & the killer isn't too obvious either , there were also some nice touches of humour that have been absent from season 8 & while there is a social message about justice & not ignoring a problem it isn't rammed down our throats every two seconds & actually adds to the story rather than distracts from it . Overall this is easily the best story from season 8 so far , a season which I haven't enjoyed at all , until Sleeping Dogs anyway . This episode moves along at a nice enough pace & isn't as dull as those purely social or moral issue driven stories . Distinctive screen ' heavy ' Brion James puts in a good performance as the villain as he did in many films , he appeared in many big budget Hollywood films including Blade Runner ( 1982 ) which was released in the same year this originally aired . Sleeping dogs is a welcome return to form for everyones favourite coroner , having said that I feel Sleeping Dogs is the exception in season 8 rather than the rule .
I am still enjoying the series anyway .	Saw IV starts as Detective Hoffman ( Costas Mandylor ) , SWAT team leader Officer Rigg ( Lyriq Bent ) & their team find the dead mutilated body of Detective Kerry ( Dina Meyer ) in one of notorious killer Jigsaw's ( Tobin Bell ) traps . FBI agents Strahm ( Scott Patterson ) & Perez ( Athena Karkanis ) both feel Jigsaw has some sort of accomplice & are determined to find out who it is , meanwhile with Detective Eric Matthews ( Donnie Wahlberg ) still missing & the bodies continuing to pile up Officer Rigg just can't let it go & somehow feels responsible & helpless . Later that night in his apartment Rigg is knocked out & comes round in his bathroom faced by Jigsaw on his telly as Rigg finds himself part of the horrific games that Jigsaw likes to play . Jigsaw gives Rigg ninety minutes to save both Detectives Matthews & Hoffman who are now both at the mercy of Jigsaw in one of his deadly traps but Jigsaw makes sure it's not easy for Rigg who has lots of difficult decisions to make along the way . . . Like Saw II ( 2005 ) & Saw III ( 2006 ) this third sequel to the surprise sleeper smash hit horror thriller Saw ( 2003 ) was directed by Darren Lynn Bousman & I have to say that at this point I am still enjoying the Saw franchise . While maybe not quite as good as Saw II or definitely not as good as the rather excellent Saw III one has to say that I enjoyed Saw IV , it moves along like a rocket , there's a few decent twist's & turns although if you have seen the previous Saw films they will perhaps seem a little familiar but they are still good twist's . Now , I think the main problems with Saw IV are that it tries to shoehorn too many bit part character's from the previous three films into the script , there were a few times when I was confused about who was who & what connection they had to the series if any . While Saw IV works as a stand alone film for the majority of it's 90 odd minute duration it's definitely an advantage if you have seen the other films prior to watching this & then there's the ending which I liked but it could have been scripted a little better so it was a bit clearer about what had actually happened & this is the one aspect of the film that pretty much relies on you having seen at least Saw III . Basically the twist is that the film is actually a flashback after the gruesome opening autopsy which makes the audience think they are watching a straight chronological sequel to Saw III when in fact you are not , the events of Saw III & Saw IV take place simultaneously in a rather neat & clever twist that a lot of viewers ( judging by the IMDb message board for Saw IV & a few of the User Comments I have read ) don't seem to understand , get or even comprehend which is partly down to the filmmakers as I have already said since the ending is a bit abrupt , a little underwritten & relies on the audience having seen ( & remembering ) Saw III . Overall though I liked Saw IV , the character's are good with yet more back-story for the character's especially Jigsaw & the relationship between him & his ex-wife , the plot is pretty clever & it does all come together nicely at the end without any apparent plot holes & there's some more crackingly gory set-pieces that I personally just can't get enough of . Well one has to say if your looking for some blood , sadism & gore then you could do a lot worse than Saw IV , it starts off with an extremely graphic autopsy sequence the likes of which I have never seen in a major film before . I was amazed at how nasty the autopsy scene is , from the skin on Jigsaw's scalp being pulled back over his face to the top of his skull being sawed off & his brain removed to his chest being sliced open , his ribcage opened up & his stomach removed . It's actually pretty gruelling stuff & if your easily squeamish you may want to give Saw IV a miss . Other gore highlights include mutilated rat infested bodies , a woman having her scalp torn off , a guy getting his eyeball pierced , some guy's head being crushed between two huge blocks , two people are skewered with metal spikes with predictably bloody results & a scene which even made me wince a little when a guy has to free himself from a trap by pushing his face through two columns of razor sharp knives therefore slicing his face to bits . If that wasn't enough the poor guy then falls into a cage full of barb wire ! Ouch . Having said that I don't think this is quite as gory or brutal as Saw III though . Apparently Saw IV was given the green-light before Saw III was even made or released as both were commissioned at the same time shortly after Saw II opened to huge box-office business . With a supposed budget of about $10 , 000 , 000 & apparently shot in just 32 days in Ontario in Canada Saw IV took over $31 , 000 , 000 during it's opening weekend at the box-office , the production values & special effects are slick & I particularly liked some of the neat editing transitions between scenes . The acting is fine if nothing spectacular , quite a few of the cast return from previous instalments . Saw IV is another great entry in a pretty good horror franchise which I suppose you will either love it's twist's & scenes of brutal torture & gore or simply hate it as sick pointless rubbish , in my opinion I'd vote for the former any day of the week . Being such a big financial hit Saw V ( 2008 ) was guaranteed while yet another sequel Saw VI ( 2009 ) is in production .
Great Quincy episode .	Quincy M . E . : Speed Trap starts one one Sunday afternoon as Los Angeles coroner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) & his laboratory assistant Sam ( Robert Ito ) are enjoying watching a Grand Prix on the telly , Kevin Bannon driving his Red Phantom car for the Reddon team is way out in from & miles ahead of anyone else . Then on one of his final laps Kevin loses control & crashes , Kevin dies from his injuries & ends up on Quincy's autopsy table . Apart from a small amount of amphetamines the autopsy proves Kevin died from massive injuries sustained in the crash , case closed . Then Kevins chief mechanic Chick Thomas ( Simon Oakland ) assures Quincy that Kevin would never take drugs , Quincy investigates further & discovers that Kevin had hypoglycemia & that the drugs would have made him pass out in his car which turns an accident into a murder . . . Episode 2 from season 4 this Quincy story was directed by Ronald Satlof & after a the fantastic The Last Six Hours ( 1978 ) which opened season four the second episode isn't half bad either . Speed trap is a very murder mystery based Quincy episode without a moral message or social issue in sight which is just fine by me . There's pretty much everything here that I like about Quincy as a show , the humour , the now established relationships between the character's with the cast & crew having fun with them , Quincy's use of medical & forensic science , a fairly clever murder plot which isn't too obvious & all packed into a neat little fifty minute duration . The science on show here feels plausible although I'm not sure whether you could inject a rubber tyre with acid . The plot revolving around the world of motor sport & racing is pretty cool too & I love the scenes with Dr . Asten moaning at Quincy especially the garbage bag incident . . . There's some on track location filming here , I have no idea which race track they used but it's a fair bet it's one in Los Angeles somewhere . The one thing that stood out for me in this late 70's production was how ugly & horrible the race cars looked , they are all ungainly square box like angles which don't look very aerodynamic or sexy at all . When compared to todays ultra sleek & stylish sporty race & Grand Prix cars there's no comparison . There are a couple of car crashes although I suspect that stock footage was used . The acting is fine by all involved . Speed Trap is a great Quincy murder mystery based episode that has kept the very strong start to season four going & is almost as good as the previous episode the excellent The Last Six Hours , a must for fans & armchair detectives everywhere .
" If someones life is erased it's called murder , what is it called if someones death is erased , that's a crime too you know . " Classic Quincy .	Quincy M . E . : Stolen Tears starts as Jew & Holocaust survivor Issac Koviac ( Tha Wyenn ) is run down & killed in what seems like an open & shut case of hit-and-run , however before he was killed Issac managed to get a written note to his friend & fellow Holocaust survivor Hyam Sigerski ( Martin Baslam ) saying that he saw one of the sadistic German prison guards from the Auschwitz concentration camp where they were held during World War II somewhere in Los Angeles . Hyam believes Issac was killed deliberately by this German guard to silence him & prevent his exposure , Lt . Monahan ( Garry Walberg ) & the LAPD aren't interested so in desperation Hyam talks to Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) who performed Issac's autopsy to try & convince him it was murder . Meanwhile an organisation lead by Cornelius Sumner ( Norman Lloyd ) is on a campaign to discredit people like Hyam & spread the filthy propaganda that the Holocaust never happen & it was all lies , doctored video footage & photo's plus false confessions . . . Episode 18 from season 7 this Quincy story was directed by Georg Fenady & is one of those Quincy episodes where he has to use his medical expertise & detective skills to solve a crime as well as use his stiff moral backbone to confront & tackle a serious issue & I guess they don't come much more political , serious or sombre then the systematic extermination of over 6 million Jews in German concentration camps during the second World War but this is Quincy & he doesn't shy away from anything even an issue as heartfelt & emotional as this . To be honest this is quite a heavy issue & a surprising subject matter for the show to deal with but the one thing I really like about Quincy is the diversity of subjects & issues it can & does tackle , of course I think the show is at it's best when it mixes a solid social issue around an intriguing & entertaining murder mystery which Stolen Tears does quite effectively . I couldn't help thinking that maybe the issue of German concentration camps might be a little heavy for Quincy & at only 50 odd minutes in length it doesn't quite have the time to address some of the issue it raises but as a big fan of the show I still liked this episode all the same & it's as simple & straight forward as that . As usual the show is competently made if a little cheap looking , I doubt the makers had much of a budget or a lot of time . This particular episode also gives the viewer a rare chance to see the inside of Danny's restaurants public toilets which I think has never happened before or since ! The acting here is OK , Klugman as Quincy is just class & I could watch him all day while the guest stars do OK but aren't anything special . Stolen Tears is a pretty sombre Quincy which deals with a difficult & still quite sensitive subject , I can't say it does it complete justice but it tries & there's time for a neat little murder mystery in between all the politics as well .
Classic two part Quincy .	Quincy M . E : Slow Boat to Madness : Part 2 starts as L . A . coroner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) is continuing helping out on a cruise ship by using his medical knowhow to try & discover the mystery illness which has killed three so far & infected many more . That isn't Quincy's only problem though as the ship has been refused entry to any country for fear of an epidemic by local authorities & when his close friend Dr . Janet Carlyle ( Diana Muldaur ) becomes one of the victims it becomes personal for him as he faces a race against to prevent her & anybody else's death , but is it already too late . . . Episode 4 from season 7 this two part Quincy story was directed Daniel Haller & while this episode wasn't quite as good as Part 1 overall it's still a good Quincy mystery across it's two parts . The script goes a little off track here as the first half features a dull subplot about two defected Russians & the fact that the two actors portraying them put in terrible performances along with truly awful accents don't help . Then about halfway through they disappear never to be seen again , most of the set up in Part 1 doesn't really come to much like the crew making a film on-board who get a couple of brief scenes here but nothing that important & I also felt the eventual conclusion was a bit rushed where things were wrapped up a bit quickly & a bit conveniently . Having said that it's still a decent episode , Klugman is always watchable & there's no moral issues in this story . Shot mostly on a real cruise ship none of this story is set in the laboratory which makes for a change if nothing else . Sam & Mark feature during the first half of this episode but the other regular cast don't appear until the final feel good moment at Danny's which is as cheesy as ever . Slow Boat to Madness : Part 2 isn't quite as good as part 1 but over the two 50 odd minute episodes I'm going to rate it a throughly respectable & entertaining , I liked it & I'm sure there are many other's out there who will too .
" We are all interested in the future for that is where you & I are going to spend the rest of our lives . " Affectionate look at the life & career of Edward D . Wood Jr .	The Incredibly Strange Film Show : Ed Wood , or ' The Son of The Incredibly Strange . . . ' as it's on screen title says , is a 40 odd minute documentary focusing on the life , the career & the death of the infamous Edward D . Wood Jr . . Originally aired here in the UK during 1989 this was episode 1 from season 2 of the short lived TV series The Incredibly Strange Film Show that looked at a variety of oddball filmmakers . This particular episode focuses on the so-called worst director of all time Ed Wood , to be honest I can't see why he merits so much attention or notoriety as his films are simply terrible & being branded as the worst director of all time is nothing to be proud of but each to their own I suppose . As well looking at his films including Glen or Glenda ( 1953 ) , The Bride of the Monster ( 1955 ) & Plan 9 From Outer Space ( 1959 ) it delves into his personal life revealing he was a transvestite & that he died on his own , homeless & penniless in Hollywood . There are filmed interviews with his ex-wife who says he never saw a penny from any of his films , Vampira who appeared in Plan 9 , Paul Marco who also appeared in several of his films & leading lady from Night of the Ghouls ( 1959 ) Valda Hansen which are both affectionate , candid & sometimes sad like Marco's recollections of Bela Lugosi injecting himself with drugs to satisfy his addiction . Overall this is a good solid informative , entertaining & heartfelt documentary that is a must for Ed Wood fans . Shot in Hollywood this , like other Incredibly Strange Film Show episodes , visits some relevant locations & interviews quite a few people who are no longer with us so this documentary couldn't be made today . In fact unlike the rest of the episodes in The Incredibly Strange Film Show's two season stint this is the only one where the main focus of the documentary was dead at the time it was made & could therefore be considered a retrospective piece . There is one hilarious anecdote when someone says that the flying saucers from Plan 9 look like metal pie dishes but has subsequently discovered that the films budget didn't stretch to metal pie dishes & they were actually two paper plates stuck together ! There is also some awful looking footage from the Plan 9 From Outer Space musical which looks absolutely terrible . This is another great show from this great series & series producer & host Jonathan Ross clearly loves the genre , if your a fan of strange films & exploitation cinema then this is a must . It's also a must for Ed Wood fans , if such things exist . This is a notoriously hard series to track down , only illegal bootleg DVD-R's & domestic off-air recordings made at the time it was originally broadcast are currently available which is a shame .
The 44 minute edited for TV version . . .	Quincy M . E . : Who's Who in Neverland starts as Margo Bentley ( Joanna Barnes ) decides to take a break from the stresses & strains of writing a fictional account of her life & check into the cheap Sunset Motel under the name Barbara Miller for a while , unfortunately for her it's the last thing she ever does as she is murdered there soon afterwards . Lt . Monahan ( Garry Walberg ) of the LAPD decides she's a prostitute & that she died of alcohol poisoning , however LA county coroner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) has his suspicions & decides to investigate . He soon discovers that Margot's publisher Arthur Ellis has also recently died from apparent alcohol abuse & becomes convinced he has a double murder on his hands but Quincy finds it hard to convince the people that matter . . . Episode 2 from season 1 this Quincy story was directed by Steven H . Stern & is a good solid murder mystery that set the tone for many that followed it . At this point I should say that Who's Who in Neverland was one of several 90 minute long Quincy feature films made for TV before it settled down into a 60 minute time slot for it's own series , now somewhere along the line this has been edited down to a 44 minute ( minus commercials ) version to presumably fit in with subsequent Quincy episodes during re-runs & maybe foreign sales as I can't think of another reason . Anyway , I will be basing my comments on the shorter 44 minute version . This being only the second ever Quincy episode the character's relationships are still raw & still being developed but even at this early stage you can see the humour between the character's , the fact that Dr . Asten is a pencil pusher while Quincy conversely stands up against bureaucracy at every opportunity , he makes impassioned speeches which would become a character trademark & his eye for detail & his meticulous attention to his work that would later uncover & solve all sorts of crimes is here to see from the very beginning . This starts out like a Columbo mystery as we know who the killer is straight away & it's just whether Quincy can use his medical knowhow & expertise to track them down & catch them . I'm not sure how this played as a 73 minute ( minus commercials that was the original length ) long episode but at 44 minutes it moves along at a nice pace , it seems to retain all the key plot elements & still makes sense so I really have no idea what ended up on the cutting room floor . This one looks alright & contains several of the clips used in the iconic opening sequence used throughout the rest of the show's run . The acting is decent enough & Klugman looks like he was born to play the role of Quincy . Who's Who in Neverland is a good solid early Quincy murder mystery , having said that I'm basing my comments on the edited version so bear that in mind . A must for fans of the show .
" I have to go & see a man about a horse . . . a murdered one . " Classic Quincy .	Quincy M . E . : When Luck Ran Out starts as L . A . coroner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) is having a day off at the races with his date an insurance investigator named Annie O'Connor ( Katherine Justice ) , he also meets up with an old friend & successful horse trainer Nelson Spencer ( Craig Stevens ) whose horse Star Chaser is a dead cert . Everything goes well & Star Chaser wins the race , Quincy wins his bet & he's about to take Annie to dinner when Star Chaser suddenly collapses & dies . Nelson wants the $2 million insurance money but there has to be a routine investigation & it just so happens by a complete coincidence that Annie is assigned to the case , she suspects foul play but Quincy disagrees . Could Quincy's friendship with Nelson be clouding his judgement & does Star Chasers death have anything to do with the murder of a vet named Dr . Harris ? Episode 11 from season 7 this Quincy story was directed by Georg Fenady & is a good solid episode . The script almost totally concentrates on the mystery side of things rather than spend a lot of time on a moral issue which has been common practice during season 7 , as a detective mystery it's a solid entertaining watch although I'd say that it's maybe a little too predictable & it could have used a few more suspects to keep the mystery side of things going a little longer . There's a small sub plot with meaning about letting friendship get in the way & the issue surrounding impartiality but the script doesn't dwell on it . The traditional feel good happy ending at Danny's in this episode surely has to be one of the silliest & cheesiest in the entire series . At only 50 odd minutes in length it moves along at a nice pace , it's not a boring episode & it doesn't outstay it's welcome . This one looks alright , the scenes of Quincy & Annie sitting in the stands look very fake & the background extras could have put a bit more effort into it ! The acting is OK although Craig Stevens as the bad guy is pretty poor & gives a lifeless performance like he's reading cue cards . When Luck Ran Out is another great Quincy episode where he does what he does best , investigate a crime & solve it using his medical knowledge . Definitely well worth a watch .
Jonathan Ross meets the godfather of gore . . .	The Incredibly Strange Film Show : Herschell Gordon Lewis is a 40 odd minute documentary focusing on the career of exploitation filmmaker Herschell Gordon Lewis from his early ' Nudie Cutie ' films to his trademark gore flicks . Originally aired during 1988 here in the UK this was episode 2 from season 1 of the short lived TV series The Incredibly Strange Film Show in which presenter & exploitation film fan Jonathan Ross would travel the world interviewing various legendary filmmakers . Here it's the turn of the godfather of gore Herschell Gordon Lewis who is credited single handedly with creating the gore film with Blood Feast ( 1963 ) , Ross covers virtually his entire film-making career although for some bizarre reason there is no mention of Lewis ' final gore film The Gore Gore Girls ( 1972 ) . Exploitation film producer David Freidman is also interviewed about working with Lewis . Various topics are discussed , censorship , the ideas behind his films , actors , money , locations , his cameo in A Taste of Blood ( 1967 ) , the opening of his own theatre with live gore show's & various personal thoughts . The dialogue is clear , Lewis sticks to the questions & doesn't go off topic & he's a good talker which helps . While not that detailed this is an entertaining documentary & Gordon comes off as a pretty likable guy who admits he was only in it for the money which , quite frankly , you can't blame him for . This was shot at some of the locations used in Lewis ' films so it provides some interest on that level , there is an odd interview with an over enthusiastic woman described as a ' film fan ' who says she thinks Gordon has & I quote ' produced some of the most fantastic works of art ' ! Whatever she's on I want some . . . It's also interesting these days for us Brits to note that Ross openly admits that a lot of the clips used in this episode have been edited because they are so graphic & shocking & at that time we had very strict censorship laws yet these days here in the UK all of Lewis ' films are available uncut & when viewed the gore is pretty fake looking . Still , I'd have imagined that if the full clips were played back in ' 88 on a major TV channel they would have found themselves in a lot of trouble . This is another great episode from a good series , it helps that Ross is such a fan of the people & films involved as it comes across in his respectful yet sometimes over-the-top rose tinted spectacle's fan-boy narration . A must for Herschell Gordon Lewis fans & anyone interested in exploitation cinema . The series is incredibly rare , it has never been released on VHS yet alone DVD , apart from illegal bootlegs , & hasn't played on TV since it first aired . I believe the only way to watch it is to track down an original off-air recording made at the time it was originally broadcast or buy one of the illegal DVD-R's .
Incredibly rare documentary about George Romero & Tom Savini .	The Incredibly Strange Film Show : George Romero & Tom Savini , actually titled ' Son of the Incredibly Strange . . . ' on screen , is a 40 odd minute documentary focusing on writer & director George Romero's dead trilogy of films , Night of the Living Dead ( 1968 ) , Dawn of the Dead ( 1978 ) & Day of the Dead ( 1985 ) along with a brief bit about his interesting Vampire film Martin ( 1977 ) along with a sizable contribution from special make-up effects man Tom Savini . Originally aired during 1989 here in the UK on Channel 4 this was episode 2 from season 2 of the criminally short lived TV program The Incredibly Strange Film Show produced , directed & hosted by youthful looking Jonathan Ross who has since gone on to become one of the biggest celebrities here in the UK although he admirably has never hidden his love for exploitation cinema . This particular episode is a fascinating look at the dead trilogy of films made by Romero & Savini , the two main interviewees are obviously Romero & Savini who speak clearly , generally stick to the question they have been asked without wandering off topic & are easy to understand . I didn't think any of it was exactly groundbreaking but if your after a entertaining & informative documentary about Romero's dead films then this is it . What I also liked about this was that Ross & a camera crew went to Pennsylvania where the dead films & Martin were shot , Ross visits & presents some of the show from the actual locations used in the film including the cemetery from the opening sequence of Night of the Living Dead & the mall from Dawn of the Dead which looked exactly the same as it did during the film right down to a car on display ! There are numerous clips from the films mentioned including some of the gory highlights , there is some footage of Savini's studio & some of his previous effects work which fans of his will recognise & he even makes Ross up in zombie make-up which is a nice scene . This is a nice documentary which at 40 minutes lasts long enough to be relatively detailed although at the same time short enough not to outstay it's welcome . It could have been a bit more comprehensive but it's still pretty good all the same & you can tell Ross loves the genre which makes a big difference . Beware though , this series is notoriously hard to find & as far as I am aware has never been issued on VHS let alone DVD or had any repeats either , in fact I believe the only way to watch it is from off-air domestic recordings made by viewers at home the time it was originally aired .
" Vietnam couldn't kill him but his neighbourhood did . " More classic Quincy .	Quincy M . E . : Vigil of Fear starts as two vigilantes Frank ( Len Bari ) & his younger brother Tony Penner ( Peter Virgo Jr . ) stumble across an armed robbery at a liqueur store where an innocent bystander has been shot dead , Frank & Tony purse the killer ( Paul Koslo ) into a pitch black alley where in a gunfight Tony shoots him dead . Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) is called in to autopsy the body & discovers that Tony shot an innocent man , Lt . Monahan ( Garry Walberg ) wants Tony put away while there is still an armed killer on the loose as the relationship between the vigilantes & the police deteriorate even further . . . Episode 18 from season 6 this Quincy story was directed by Bob Bender & is one of those times where Quincy & his crime solving ways take a back seat to a moral message . The script has the basic message that vigilante groups that operate outside the law are bad & cause more problems then they solve although vigilante groups who work with the police get instant results & are a very good thing . To be honest Quincy is secondary in this episode & while the basic plot is pretty solid it's nothing more than a platform to raise the whole vigilante issue , having said that Quincy still gets to do a bit of detective work at the start as he figures out what really happened in the pitch black alley way . It depends on your opinion of these more morally driven stories how much you will enjoy Vigil of Fear , in my opinion it's still a watchable episode & at least they managed to work at least one impassioned speech into Quincy's dialogue ! Vigil of Fear hasn't dated that well , I mean if you went up to some punk these days & asked them to move on they'd probably pull & gun or knife on you & blow you away , I also think the sight of six middle aged men wouldn't really send shivers down the spines of hardened criminals these days either . The acting isn't the best here , I mean when Frank & his mates get back from his younger brother's funeral they all start drinking beer & having a laugh like they were at a party as opposed to having had just buried someone ! Vigil of Fear maybe hasn't dated as well as some Quincy stories but it's still good fun with a serious message !
Good Quincy murder mystery .	Quincy M . E . : Valleyview starts as Los Angeles coroner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) is asked to perform a private autopsy on seventy six year old Howard Phillips by his Grandson David ( Ed Begley Jr . ) , the official cause of death is a heart attack but David is sure that was not the case & that the Doctor's at Valleyview Sanitarium are hiding something . After the autopsy Quincy is puzzled , he has no idea how Howard died & it certainly wasn't from a heart attack although Quincy discovers Howard was suffering from prostate cancer . Then another body , that of mentally retarded teenager Anne , is brought in on a tip-off & again Quincy can find no cause of death . Quincy then thinks that there may be a mercy killer at Valleyview murdering terminally ill patients but no-one will believe him & without any evidence he has nowhere to go . . . Episode 12 from season 2 this Quincy story was directed by Ronald Satlof & is a very entertaining murder mystery with which to pass fifty odd minutes . Here the sensitive & emotive issue of euthanasia & mercy killing is brought up but while in later seasons of Quincy this issue would have been explored much deeper , dominated proceedings & been the moral issue of the week here in Valleyview it is merely used as a backdrop & motive for multiple murder that Quincy has to use his medical knowledge & skills to solve & as such doesn't go to much into the moral & social issues , implications & arguments surrounding the delicate topic which is fine with me since I much prefer the murder mystery themed Quincy episodes than the overly heavy handed moralistic ones . Valleyview is solid throughout , there's a steady stream of murder victims , there's a strong mystery element , the final outcome isn't too obvious & will probably keep you guessing until the end , there's the scenes where Quincy comes up against & fights bureaucracy , there's the scenes where no-one will believe Quincy & his ideas & there's that trademark Quincy humour . Pretty much all any Quincy fan would want from an episode really . There's nothing that is particularly memorable in this episode , it's well made but somewhat flat & a bit bland . Have you ever noticed the production team use the same still shot of Quincy's car parked outside Danny's ? I'm sure it's just a single stock photograph that they use as a quick establishing shot to show that Quincy is at Danny's in the same way all the exterior shot's of Quincy's building look exactly the same ! The acting is alright here so there's no problems on that front , TV & Hollywood veteran Ed Begley Jr . makes his first of three Quincy guest appearances & would next feature in the excellent No Way to Treat a Body ( 1978 ) during season four while Carolyn Jones made this the same year she starred in Tobe Hooper's one time ' video nasty ' here in the UK the sleazy killer man eating Crocodile flick Eaten Alive ( 1977 ) . Valleyview is a good solid early Quincy murder mystery that has a hint of a moral message but thankfully doesn't let it overshadow or dominate the mystery crime elements .
Jonathan Ross meets the director of Spider-Man . . .	The Incredibly Strange Film Show : Sam Raimi is a 40 odd minute documentary focusing on the , at that point , up & down career of Sam Raimi who came to worldwide attention with The Evil Dead ( 1982 ) before eventually making it big with the Spider-Man ( 2002 - 2007 ) series of films which he made over 10 years after this was filmed . . . Originally aired during 1988 here in the UK this was episode 6 from season 1 & was the final episode from the first season of the short lived The Incredibly Strange Film Show which ran for a mere 12 episodes over 2 seasons . As the title suggest the regular host of the show Jonathan Ross , who has gone on to become one of the UK's biggest celebrities although he has never hid his liking for oddball films , interviews Sam Raimi about his career & the films he had made to that point . In fact at the time this was made Raimi had only made the original The Evil Dead claiming he regretted filming & using the sequence where a woman is raped by some possessed trees , the disastrous Crimewave ( 1985 ) & Evil Dead II ( 1987 ) although at the end it is mentioned he is working on a project for Universal Pictures which turned out to be Darkman ( 1990 ) . A lot of the early part of the program is spent discussing Raimi's love for The Three Stooges style of comedy & how he , Bruce Campbell & Robert Tapert got funding for the original The Evil Dead . Crimewave is largely dismissed & it's clear Raimi himself is unhappy with it , there's an interview on the set of the rather good slasher flick Intruder ( 1989 ) in which Raimi is acting in & finally the last part of the documentary focuses on Evil Dead II , what he wanted to achieve with the film , how he got it financed & what he thinks about it . It was also nice to hear Raimi acknowledge the British public for the success of The Evil Dead as before it was released over here & did so well no American distributor would touch it . It's also strange to hear Raimi talk about making a big budget Hollywood film which he obviously went on to do with the Spider-Man franchise , he sounds like he was looking down on it & I bet his opinion has changed now ! As usual for this series the interviews are interesting , Raimi speaks well & is clear & concise , he doesn't stray off topic & there are plenty of clips from his films to illustrate his & Ross ' points . Another brilliant & throughly entertaining from Ross & his production team . Like the other show's in this series Ross & his team travel to Raimi & the show comes from Hollywood . The behind-the-scenes segment on the set of Intruder is great for fans of that film which I am so I was pleasantly surprised . There is also a visit to the special effects place of Mark Shostrom & he talks about the effects in Evil Dead II & show's off a few of the actual physical effects he has lying around . This is another top episode from a fascinating , well made , informative & entertaining series . Ross obviously has great affection for exploitation , horror & the oddball & that definitely comes through in his enthusiasm & knowledge . A must for Raimi fans , fans of the series & horror , exploitation & oddball film fans in general . This is a pretty hard series to come by but this is without doubt the easiest to find as it is featured on several special edition DVD's of the original The Evil Dead as an extra although I think I am right in saying the clips from Within the Woods ( 1978 ) have been edited out as Raimi seems very anal about letting anyone see it these days .
Two Incredibly Strange Film Show's in one !	The Incredibly Strange Film Show : Tsui Hark & Stuart Gordon , or ' Son of the Incredibly Strange . . . ' to give it it's full title , is a 40 odd minute documentary that for the first 20 minutes focuses on the weird world of Chinese Hong Kong cinema & in particular writer , actor & director Tsui Hark . Once the commercial break is over ( when it was originally broadcast here in the UK anyway ) the show switches to Los Angeles & Hollywood to focus on director Stuart Gordon & in particular his classic splatter film the rather fabulous Re-Animator ( 1985 ) . Originally aired during 1989 here in the UK on Channel 4 this was episode 4 from season 2 of the criminally short lived The Incredibly Strange Film Show presented by a young looking Jonathan Ross who has gone on to become one of the UK's biggest celebrities . The first half of this episode is about the Chinese film industry , although Ross interviews Hark the show covers a broad range of Hong Kong fantasy cinema . Personally I'm not a big fan of Asian cinema & therefore I found this part pretty dull , sure there are the usual nice interviews with various people , plenty of clips ( none of which made me want to watch any of the films presented & in fact put me off Asian fantasy films even more ) & nice location reporting form Hong Kong itself but I'm just not that interested in the subject matter . It's also odd to hear Hark say he has no intention of defecting to Hollywood to make films almost 10 years before he actually did & made the two Jean-Claude Van Damme flicks Double Team ( 1997 ) & Knock Off ( 1998 ) . The show improves from my point of view dramatically as the second half concentrates on Stuart Gordon & his splatter flick Re-Animator , this part was far more interesting & since I'm a huge Re-Animator fan this is just great stuff . The questions Ross puts to him are relevant & Gordon's answers are clear , concise & he doesn't stray off topic . Another great episode from a great series . Again this is actually shot on location in Hong Kong for the Tsui Hark part & Hollywood for the Stuart Gordon interview . While in Hollywood Ross also visits the set of Bride of Re-Animator ( 1990 ) which was being filmed at the time he was there , interviews with director Brian Yuzna & star Jeffrey Combs are forthcoming . There are some nice behind-the-scenes stuff on the set & Ross also interviews special make-up effects man John Carl Beuchler & there is a quick glimpse of some of his effects in his workshop including the Jason Voorhees mask from Friday the 13th Part VII : The New Blood ( 1988 ) & he makes a mechanical Troll from Troll ( 1984 ) sing during the end credits . Another visually interesting & well put together documentary . This is a great documentary , if your a fan of both Chinese fantasy films & Stuart Gordon then you'll be happy as a pig in sit . While not a big fan of the Hong Kong stuff the Stuart Gordon Re-Animator interview more than makes up for it . This is a very rare series that has never been released on VHS or DVD , apart from illegal bootleg copies taken from off-air recording of the original broadcasts . If you can find a copy & you like cult films then this , as is the whole 12 episodes over it's 2 seasons , is a must .
" We must feed so that we may breed . " Quite good fun in a dumb sort of way .	Night Hunter starts in ' 1968 ' as a young Jack Cutter ( Chris Aguilar ) is unexpectedly handed the family tradition of becoming a Vampire hunter when a fellow Vampire hunter Sid O'Mack ( Sid Haim ) betrays his family & hands them over to the Vampire's , to aid Jack on his quest he is given a book that contains the name of every Vampire alive , or dead whichever way you look at it . . . Jump to ' June 1995 ' & Los Angeles where the now adult Cutter ( Don ' The Dragon ' Wilson , also credited as co-producer ) has but four names left in the book including , Argento ( Vince Murdocco ) & Carmella ( Sophia Crawford ) together they are the last of the American Vampires . As they all dine in a restaurant Cutter crashes the party & kills them , job done right ? Wrong as King of the Vampires Bruno Fischer ( Nicholas Guest ) calls in the last four remaining Vampires from around the world , the French Tournier ( Maria Ford ) , the Asian Hashimoto ( Ron Yuan ) , Ulmer ( David ' Shark Fralick ) & Sangster ( Vincent Klyn ) to track Cutter down & kill him . Meanwhile Detective's Hooper ( Marcus Aurelius ) & Browning ( Cash Casey ) don't have a clue & a nosey reporter named Raimy Baker ( Melanie Smith ) becomes involved in the battle between Cutter & the Vampire's on which the very fate of Earth rests ! Directed by Rick Jacobson I thought Night Hunter was quite a fun way to pass 85 odd minutes . The script by William C . Martell mixes martial arts & horror with a fair degree of success , it moves along at a nice pace & is at least never boring & thankfully doesn't seem to take itself too seriously . The character names that reference other horror film director's / actors are a little tacky though . Some may be surprised at how closely Night Hunter resembles Blade ( 1998 ) yet was made a couple of years prior , the lone moody long coat wearing Vampire hunter who happens to be an expert in martial arts , the scene set in a nightclub & the innocent woman drawn into the world of Vampire's . Night Hunter doesn't really stick to traditional Vampire film law , for instance sunlight only irritates their eye's , they can only breed on a solar eclipse ( why ? ) , stakes through the heart & garlic is no good as the way to kill a Vampire in Night Hunter is to break it's neck . I could have done with a bit more horror & a bit more blood as it leans more towards the martial arts side of things . The dialogue is suitably cheesy & the character's are just about likable enough in a silly way . Director Jacobson does his best to ruin the film , the actions scenes are OK but lack a certain something & for some bizarre reason whenever an action sequence takes place he shakes his camera constantly , it's like the camera is placed upon a washing machine full cycle ! Hey Rick , mate , it's not clever or stylish it's irritating & annoying . The gore is disappointing with a few gory gunshot wounds & a few splashes of blood , breaking Vampire's necks don't involve much blood unfortunately . With a budget that probably didn't amount to much Night Hunter is competently made throughout . The acting was bad most of the time & what's with ' The Dragon ' thing in Don ' The Dragon ' Wilson's name ? Has he legally changed his name ? Does he sign cheques Don ' The Dragon ' Wilson ? ! Does he get mail addressed to him in that name ? I think I might do something like this , from now on I want to be known as Paul ' The Killer Klown ' Andrews . . . Night Hunter is one of those crap films that transcends it's limitations & awfulness to become pure golden entertainment . If you like your films fun then Night Hunter might be for you , if your looking for big-budget thrills in a similar vein ( ! Vampire's , veins & blood get it ? ) then Blade & it's sequels would probably be a better choice . What the hell , I liked it so sue me .
" I've got a clock in my head , every tick is like a time-bomb in my mind ! " Classic Quincy .	Quincy M . E . : Tissue of Truth starts as Los Angeles cops Lt . Monahan ( Garry Walberg ) & Sgt . Brill ( Joseph Roman ) are in the middle of a kidnap case , a young 18 year old boy named Bobby Stoddard ( Steve Burns ) has been abducted by John Westman & he is demanding $500 , 000 from his parents Robert ( Craig Stevens ) & Amanda ( Lenka Peterson ) for his safe return . Weston says that he has buried Bobby in an underground vault with only 36 hours worth of air , unfortunately before Weston can reveal Bobby's location he is involved in a car accident & dies . The only person on Earth who knows where Bobby is has been killed , step in LA coroner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) who is determined to use his medical & forensic skills to unravel the clues left by Weston & find out where Bobby is , but as time rapidly runs out & with a 200 mile radius to narrow down can Quincy save Bobby ? Episode 6 from season 3 this Quincy story was directed by Ray Danton & is one of those episodes which all those people who think Quincy is all about solving murders should watch , I've always said as a series Quinmcy had a wide variety of story lines & wasn't afraid to tack serious social issues & it's a myth that every episode is centered around a murder which Tissue of Truth proves beyond a shadow of a doubt . I liked Tissue of Truth , I really liked the story about Quincy having to use his expertise to figure out where Bobby was & I liked the feeling of a ' race against time ' situation as Bobby slowly ran out of air . However I didn't like all the co-incidences & all the guess work going on here , I mean for instance the police sketch artist who draws virtually a perfect picture of Louise from being told nothing more than this mystery woman has a scar , wears glasses , has long blonde hair & has good jaw alignment ! I'm sorry but those are very vague features to then go on & draw an exact likeness of Louise who he had never met needs one to suspend their disbelief . Then there's the scene when Quincy finds a puddle in a 100 square mile part of San Marco valley at night using a spotlight ! Rather lucky I thought & of course it was the exact puddle that Westman drove his car through . Also there are lots of assumptions & things which didn't quite work for me , the stain on Westman's pants for instance as he could have got that from literally anywhere . The sunflower pollen in his nasal cavity , again he could have got that from anywhere . I liked the story but I didn't like some of the very shaky plot points , I suppose it's a toss up between the two & since I like Quincy as a series I am probably more likely to forgive some silly & downright unrealistic plotting once in a while which Tissue of Truth has it's fair share of . Again like almost every episode from season 3 there's no Danny or his restaurant even though he's mentioned by name at one point . This is well made if rather basic , there's a reasonable car chase & crash in this one too . The acting is good from most of the cast , as usual the regulars are better than the guest stars . Tissue of Truth is a great Quincy episode , sure the actual science in this one isn't great in fact it's terrible but the story is cool & pretty gripping . I liked it , so sue me .
Great Quincy episode .	Quincy M . E . : The Two Sides of Truth starts in court as Los Angeles chief medical examiner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) is called as expert witness in a court case to determine the way a man died , Quincy is sure that he is right but his mentor & teacher Professor Herbert Stone ( Barry Sullivan ) is on the defence & disputes Quincy's findings . Then Quincy is called to a fire at PetraChem oil refinery where a body has been found , it is initially thought it is the body of the president of the company William Farrell ( Michael Callan ) & the evidence seems to point to that but Quincy is unsure as the body cannot be identified through normal means because it is so badly burnt . An inquest is called & again Quincy finds himself up against his old pathology Professor , his loyalty & friendship is called into question as he searches for the truth no-one else seems interested in . . . Episode 5 from season 2 this Quincy story was directed by Ronald Satlof & The Two Sides of Truth is yet another great early example of Quincy & that it can successfully mix it's story lines & be varied yet still be entertaining . Here Quincy has to deal with personal conflict as his idol , teacher , mentor & the man he admires so much Dr . Stone seems to be selling his medical expertise to the highest bidder & will say just about anything in court for money . There are obviously other issues brought up as well like using expert witnesses who have something to gain from a certain outcome & how they might seek to suppress the truth & while not blatantly lie certainly not tell the complete truth or maybe omit a few facts here & there . Overall though those side issues don't overshadow a good solid murder mystery plot that Quincy uses his medical knowledge & skills to solve & the fact that most of the moral issues brought up involve Quincy himself in personal conflict means I found them more meaningful . The outcome of this episode is maybe a little bit too predictable & slightly too ' happyily ever after ' but it's fitting & works well enough . After the different set of opening titles as seen in the previous episode Visitors in Paradise ( 1977 ) the production team reverts back to the traditional titles which would remain the same for the rest of the entire run of six and a half more seasons although the main theme music would get revamped from time to time the actual titles stayed exactly the same . There's a very silly sub plot in The Two Sides of Truth about a clumsy laboratory assistant named Alice who Sam fancies breaking everything she touches who was promptly dropped & never seen again . The acting is alright although the regulars are better than the guest stars as usual . The Two Sides of Truth has a strong storyline about finding out the truth & not settling for anything less , a strong basic concept which would run through Quincy as a series & as a series would largely base itself upon that one single specific concept .
" I've got four men in the hall & at the door with instructions to stick to you like fresh paint . " More quality Quincy .	Quincy M . E . : To Kill in Plain Sight starts as an assassins scout named Lane Garrison ( Blake Marion ) is ironically assassinated himself by letter bomb , L . A . ' s finest Lt . Monahan ( Garry Walberg ) & Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) are on the case . In the dead mans bathroom Quincy notices a burnt piece of paper with vague details of an assassination which is due to take place in less than 24 hours at a hotel staging a Western Governor's conference , with virtually nothing to go on Quincy has to use his medical knowledge & scientific knowhow to piece the puzzle together & prevent the hit from ever taking place . . . Episode 16 from season 6 this Quincy story was directed by Ray Austin & sees the show in top form . Written by Geoffrey Fischer this is a great episode in my opinion , it just about has it all . There's the murder mystery element that hooks you , there's plenty of sinister goings on , it has a couple of surprisingly effective twists in it , the intriguing premise of Quincy having to almost solve a murder before it has taken place & there's even time for the trade mark social / moral message . There's a fair amount going on in To Kill in Plain Sight with various corrupt politicians trying to get the upper-hand against each other , shady mob dealings , blackmail , assassination attempts & poison darts ! It's all here in a great bite-sized 60 minute episode ! Apparently this was shot at the Ambassador Hotel in Los Angeles & I'm sure anyone who lives there will know where it is . On the down side in this episode some of the leaps of faith in the logic are a little hard to swallow . The acting is good as usual from the regular cast & both veteran actors Fritz Weaver & William Prince make for suitably slimy politicians . To Kill in Plain Sight is another top Quincy story with some nice twists & turns , an absolute must for fans & murder mystery addicts alike !
" This is more interesting than the anatomy of a bicuspid . " Quincy solves a murder committed with a frozen hot dog !	Quincy M . E . : The Hot Dog Murder starts as Los Angeles coroner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) is giving a lecture at a local University , afterwards he is approached by a dental student named George Talbot ( Jonathan Segal ) , he ask's Quincy to take a look at his findings from the autopsy of maximum security prisoner John Kendall who donated his body to the University for experimentation . Officially Kendall died from natural causes but while dissecting him George found a frozen hot dog in his throat & evidence that it had been forced down there & therefore choking him . Quincy agrees with George's findings & sets out to prove that Kendall was murdered to silence him , but finding proof proves difficult as he tries to uncover the truth of the hot dog murder . . . Episode 9 from season 2 this Quincy story was directed by Alex March & is a good solid early Quincy murder mystery with a little bit of humour & quirkiness thrown in for good measure . The main aspect of The Hot Dog Murder is obviously the unusual method of murder used , I would imagine there aren't many people killed with a frozen hot dog ! Like a lot of the early episodes from the first couple of seasons a fair amount of the action takes place outside the traditional laboratory setting , here Quincy volunteers to become a prison doctor ( a plot reused in House of No Retrurn during season four ) to gain entry & do a little detective work in order to catch a killer . All in all this is a really good murder mystery & there isn't a moral or social issue in sight . Having said that Quincy as a character was still being developed & he does some uncharacteristic things like deliberately stealing confidential X-rays , torturing an inmate with electricity to gain information & spiking someone's drink in order to give them severe stomach & chest pains in an attempt to make him think he was dying ( Quincy also gives him a set of rosary beads & shouts ' hurry up I've got a man dying back here ' to the ambulance driver ) which when you think about it is a really nasty thing to do & only tells him that he isn't dying when he admits to the murder . I mean he phones an ambulance up to take him to hospital which ties the ambulance up if anyone else needed it & then puts him in a room which ties the room up & all the equipment inside & again I ask what if there was a genuine need for that room or equipment ? Also I would like to know what happened to the large envelope stuffed with money Brandise tries to bribe Quincy with ? He gives it to Sam for safekeeping & then it's never mentioned again so what did they do with it ? Maybe they split the cash between themselves ? This episode is well made & there's a half decent fight in it but it's not exactly stylish or memorable in that regard . The acting is fine form most of the cast . The Hot Dog Murder overall is a good solid quirky Quincy murder mystery that came at a time when the production team were still working the character's out & therefore some of Quincy's behaviour in this is a little odd . Definitely worth a watch & fans of the series should enjoy it .
The ultimate cannibal film ? Not really .	The film opens to a shot of the Statue of Liberty which immediately establishes that we are in New York . Various Manhattan locations are seen as the opening credits roll . A waste of space drug user and occasional dealer Tim Barrett breaks into an apartment owned by Myrna Stenn ( Fiamma Maglione as Meg Flemming ) and her boyfriend Mike Logan ( Giovanni Lombardo Radice as John Morghen ) looking to score some heroine . Once there he finds two Brooklyn mobsters ( John Bartha and Cannibal Holocaust ( 1980 ) star Perry Pirkanen ) who also want to locate Mike because he stole $100 , 000 of their money . They shoot him , Lieutenant Rizzo ( Robert Kerman ) and Sergeant Ross ( Venantino Venantini ) are put on the case . The film now moves to South America , Colombia and the Amazon jungle . New York University anthropology student Gloria Davis ( Lorraine De Selle ) is writing a thesis on cannibalism , she believes cannibalism doesn't really exist as an organised human practise and that it is merely a myth established by advanced cultures as a means of justifying their cruelty and prejudice against more so-called primitive people and tribes who live in the Amazon . Her brother Rudy ( Danilo Mattei as Bryan Redford ) and their friend Pat Johnson ( Zora Kerova as Zora Kerowa , why just change one letter in your name ! ? ) join Gloria on her expedition . They are trying to get to a village deep in the jungle called Manyoka . In the middle of the jungle their jeep becomes stuck . They decide to carry on and walk the rest of the way rather than turn back , a decision they may not live to regret . The next day they run across New York drug dealer and general all round scumbag Mike , and his friend Joe Costolani ( Walter Lucchini as Walter Lloyd ) . Mike tells Gloria , Rudy and Pat a load of lies about why their there . He claims they were attacked and held prisoner by cannibals . Gloria and Rudy eventually find out Mike was looking for emeralds with Joe and the tribes people , when none were found , Mike high on heroine tortured and killed some of the villagers . Now the tribe want revenge on all white men and women , and Gloria , Rudy and Pat will do ! Will Lt . Rizzo be able to solve the mystery and track the now reported missing Mike down , thus saving the entire group ? And more importantly will Gloria survive to write her thesis , and if she does , will she pass ! ? Written and Directed by Umberto Lenzi and shot on location in the savage Amazon jungle and the streets of New York , I've been to New York a few times and I still can't decide which would be more dangerous ! Actually , I quite like New York . Anyway , this is a rather unpleasant cannibal film . Lots of savage brutal violence , against both human and animal . Human wise we get a ripped open stomach from which the cannibals pull a load of intestines out and eat them , a chopped off hand and scalp which exposes someones brains which again the cannibals help themselves to , large hooks through a woman's breasts , cut off penises , poked out eyeballs , mutilated maggot infested rotten corpses and piranhas biting a guys leg , all shown in graphic unflinching detail , even if some of the special effects by Gino De Rossi look a little unconvincing . Overall though , the violence against humans wasn't as plentiful or extreme as I'd been expecting . The film has a lot of real animal cruelty in it , most viewers would find this a lot more offencive and upsetting than the fake violence against humans . A small animal is killed by a large snake , a cheetah catches and kills a monkey , a turtle is cut to pieces with a machete as is a crocodile , a snake is thrown to a lizard which bites chunks out of it , and a pig is stabbed to death , so be warned ! Kerova provides the nudity . Apart from a few shocking acts of cruelty I've already listed this is a rather slow , slightly dull film . Dialogue is kept to an absolute minimum and none of the characters are developed . I really liked the main theme that is played throughout the jungle scenes , though . Acting is pretty poor , the entire film being dubbed probably didn't help . It's a good exploitation / horror film that has some nasty moments , but overall I was a little bit disappointed , but I can't quite put my finger on why . Maybe because of it's reputation I was expecting more . Worth a watch for those with the stomach .
" Statistically strangers rarely kill strangers . " I quite liked it .	My Little Eye has Emma ( Laura Regan ) , Charlie ( Jennifer Sky ) , Matt ( Sean Cw Johnson ) , Danny ( Stephen O'Reilly ) & Rex ( Kris Lemche ) answer an advert on the internet that reads ' Wanted , 5 contestants for reality webcast & 6 months in a house for $1 million if anyone leaves , everyone loses ! ' & they become the chosen five . They are stuck in a large house in the middle of a snow covered forest , the house is rigged with cameras which capture their every move & every conversation for the subscribers of the website to see & listen to . At first things go alright but things soon take a sinister turn when Danny receives a letter which states his Granfather has died , Rex receives a gun , Emma finds a bloodstained hammer in bed next to her when she wakes up one morning & a skier named Travis Patterson ( Bradley Cooper ) mysteriously turns up out of nowhere . Is it all a game ? As tensions grow the friends begin to fear for their very lives . . . This English , American , French & Canadian co-production was directed by Marc Evans & I thought it was a pretty good horror / thriller . The script by co-producer David Hilton takes it's inspiration & theme from modern pop culture , from reality TV shows such as the extremely popular Big Brother shown here in the UK to the fascination with the internet & the power it has . The fact that we are always being watched , the fact we live in a proverbial goldfish bowl where no aspect of our lives are truly secret & the desire for more extreme forms of entertainment . I liked the ideas in My Little Eye & I thought it was very effective at drawing the viewer in , it's quite gripping , engaging & overall fairly interesting to watch how things unfold . My Little Eye is also one of those films that you could almost put yourself in the position of any of the character's & try to think about how you personally would react in their situation . As a whole the film is quite open ended & not much exposition is given & not much is revealed about the what is happening . It takes itself 100 % seriously , it moves along at a pretty good pace , the character's are convincing enough & most of what happens is at least feasible I suppose . Director Evans shoots himself in the foot with the film-making techniques he uses , from jerky hand-held camcorder shots just like The Blair Witch Project ( 1999 ) to shots & entire sequences seen in infra red night vision which ends up giving the film a cheap & annoying feel to it . On the other hand some of these techniques work well in the sense it gives My Little Eye a gritty , realistic almost documentary feel to it , unfortunately the negative aspect outweighs the positive in my opinion on this issue . There isn't much gore , a quick decapitation & that's it although there is a brutal scene of someone being suffocated with a plastic bag which would be a horrible way to die . The film has a nice atmosphere , good amounts of tension & a nice creepy feel to it . My Little Eye supposedly had a budget of about $3 , 000 , 000 & I must admit that sounds a lot of money for what eventually ended up on screen although curiously the ' Trivia ' section on the IMDb states that My Little Eye was originally four hours long which is more than double it's length now so maybe that's where a lot of the extra money went . I don't think I could sit through a four hour version of this , what on Earth did the extra footage consist of ? Anyway , I guess we'll never know so it doesn't matter . The acting was decent & naturalistic which is what the film was obviously needed . My Little Eye isn't a complete success that's for sure but there was enough here for me to like it . Having said that I think My Little Eye is one of those films that you will either love or hate & I doubt too many people will sit on the fence as it were . I liked it but it's far from perfect , still definitely worth a watch if you like your horror .
" Don't pollute her blood . " The best cinematic Dracula ? Maybe . . .	Dracula starts one stormy night on the cargo ship the Demeter as it crashes on the British coastline near Whitby , looking on from the asylum where she lives Mina Van Helsing ( Jan Francis ) witnesses the incident . The next morning & the storm has passed & there is but one survivor from the wreck , Count Dracula ( Frank Langella ) who has brought a property nearby called Carfax Abbey . He signs the deeds & solicitor Jonathan Harker ( Trevor Eve ) sees to business , Count Dracula's new neighbour Dr . Jack Seward ( Donald Pleasence ) who runs an insane asylum invites him round for diner which he accepts . Once there Dracula is introduced to Seward's beautiful daughter Lucy ( Kate Nelligan ) who happens to be engaged to Harker & happens to be Mina's best friend . Dracula takes a liking to Lucy . The next morning & Mina dies under mysterious circumstances with two puncture wounds on her neck , Dr . Seward informs her father Dr . Abraham Van Helsing ( Laurence Oliver ) who is heartbroken but quickly realises that his daughter was killed by an evil creature known as a Vampire & it's not long before Lucy displays similar puncture wounds on her neck . . . This American English co-production was directed by John Badham & is a fine adaptation of Bram Stoker's well known novel . The script by W . D . Richter was also based on the 1976 Broadway play starring Langella & tells the story competently enough although as in most versions alters a few things . For instance the traditional opening where Harker travels to Transylvania to meet the Count is totally ignored , the Count's sympathetic side is given center stage with an emphasis on romance which is fine but I have to say as a result I though the horror side suffered & apart from one zombie there in't that much in the way of horror here & Mina is now Abraham Van Helsing's daughter which actually helps because now he has a proper reason to be there as a grieving father & he becomes part of the story more . One slight complaint I have is that it's a touch overlong , while it's very watchable I did start to lose interest a bit as the story of Count Draula isn't exactly the best kept secret in the world is it ? It never really strays from the basic story & if you've see one Dracula you've pretty much seen them all , to be honest I was just waiting for certain scenes & situations to happen & nothing came as much of a surprise . The character's are good , the dialogue is fine & it moves along at a reasonable pace . Director Badham is in both my good & bad books here . Firstly I have to say that this is probably the best looking Dracula I've ever seen , it's absolutely wonderful to watch with top-notch period production design that is simply gorgeous . Ufortunately Badham originally wanted to shoot in black and white but the money-men at Universal studios said no so he shot in colour , nothing odd there right ? Well , for the recent DVD releases Badham drained virtually all the colour of the film , there are bits in Dracula where it is literally black a white while no scenes have more than mere hint of colour . I have never seen the original version but the drained colour is very noticeable & I must admit while it's quite atmospheric & effective in certain scenes it did start to annoy me after a while , I think this may split opinions down the middle . Shot on location in Cornwall in England Dracula simply oozes class , the production design , the costumes , the sets & the period decor is impressive & immaculate . I'd imagine a lot of time & effort went into the look of this Dracula & it shows . There's a fine cast who all earn their money & I for one rather liked Langella as Dracula . Dracula is one of many adaptations of the novel by Bram Stoker & is surely one of the best , purely on an aesthetic level this is great to watch & it's obvious no expense was spared . I'm sure it will appeal to both fans of the novel & fans of cinema in general , I really rather liked it although it seems a tad longish in places .
" " I don't know about soul's , I'm a lawyer . " Another decent Masers of Horror episode .	Masters of Horror : Right to Die starts late one night as married couple Abby ( Julia Anderson ) & Ciff Addison ( Martin Donovan ) are driving home , however while talking Cliff is distracted & crashes into a tree that has fallen across the road . Cliff's airbag works OK & he walks away with minor injuries , unfortunately for Abby hers didn't & she ended up as toast when she was thrown from the car & doused in petrol which set alight burning her entire body . Abby's life is saved , just . She is taken to hospital where she is on life support seriously injured & horribly disfigured from the burns . Cliff decides that she should die , his selfish lawyer Ira ( Corbin Bersen ) thinks they should let Abby die , sue the car manufacturer & get rich while Abby's mum Pam ( Linda Sorenson ) wants to blame Cliff , get rich & save Abby . However Abby has other plans of her own . . . This American Canadian co-production was directed by Rob Schmidt ( whose only horror film previously was Wrong Turn ( 2003 ) which on it's own hardly qualifies him to direct a Masters of Horror episode ) & was episode 9 from season 2 of the Masters of Horror TV series , while I didn't think Right to Die was the best Masters of Horror episode I've seen I thought it was a decent enough effort all the same & still doesn't come close to being as bad as The Screwfly Solution ( 2006 ) . The script by John Esposito has a neat central idea that isn't anything new but it uses it effectively enough although I'd say it's a bit uneven , the first 15 minutes of this focuses on the horror element of the story but then it goes into a lull for 20 odd minutes as it becomes a drama as the legal wrangling over Abby's life & the affair Cliff is having take center stage before it gets back on track it a deliciously gory & twisted climax that may not be for the faint of heart . The character's are a bit clichéd , the weak man , the bent lawyer , the protective mum & the young tart who has sex to get what she wants but they all serve their purpose well enough , the dialogue is OK , the story moves along at a nice pace & overall I liked Right to Die apart from a few minutes here & there where it loses it's focus a bit & I wasn't that keen on the ambiguous ending . Director Schmidt does a good job & there are some effective scenes , this tries to alternate between low key spooky atmosphere & out-and-out blood & gore . There are some fantastic special make-up effects as usual , there's shots of Abby where she has had all of the skin burned off her body & the image of her bandaged head with her teeth showing because she has no lips left is pretty gross ( images & make-up effects that reminded me of similar scenes in Hellraiser ( 1987 ) & it's sequels ) , then there's the main course at the end where Cliff literally skins someone complete with close-ups of scalpels slicing skin open & him peeling it off the muscle & putting it into a cooler box ! Very messy . There are also various assorted body parts . There's some nudity here as well with at least a couple of pretty ladies getting naked . . . Technically Right to Die is excellent , the special effects are brilliant & as most Masters of Horror episodes it doesn't look like a cheap made-for-TV show which basically if the truth be told it is . The acting was fine but there's no big ' names ' in this one . Right to Die is another enjoyable & somewhat twisted Masters of Horror episode that most horror fans should definitely check out if not just for the terrific skinning scene ! Well worth a watch . . . for those with the stomach .
" Of all the nice places in town why'd you bring me down here ? " One of a kind . . .	Mr . No Legs tells the tale of crime kingpin & drug lord D'Angelo ( Lloyd Bochner ) who has the hard as nails Mr . No Legs ( Ron Slinker ) as his bodyguard & as a gangland ' enforcer ' who shoots first & doesn't bother to ask questions later . It's Mr . No Legs job to keep D'Angelo's drug business running smoothly so when one of his drug pushers Ken Wilson accidentally kills his girlfriend Tina when she discovers a load of D'Angelo's heroin in his apartment Mr . No Legs decides to just kill Ken as well & dump both of their bodies . Unfortunately Mr . No Legs didn't count on the fact that Tina's Brother Andy ( Ted Vollrath ) is in fact a cop with the local department , Andy & his partner Chuck ( Richard Jaeckel ) set about discovering Tina's killer & that means getting close to D'Angelo's drug operations which Mr . No Legs isn't happy about & believe me you don't want to make Mr . No Legs angry as I doubt you would like him when he's angry . . . Directed by Ricou Browning ( probably best ' remembered ' as the creature from The Creature from the Black Lagoon ( 1954 ) , how do you go from being a monster in a classic horror to making an obscure film like Mr . No Legs ? ) & also known as The Amazing Mr . No Legs here in the UK this is one unique film that doesn't quite hit the giddy heights that it could have but none-the-less provides a certain fascination & entertainment value . The script by Jack Cowden plays the material 100 % straight , is a bit on the slow side during the first 40 odd minutes & has very little of interest apart from the main title character Mr . No Legs , for most of it's duration Mr . No Legs is a standard implausible 70's cop film ( in fact you could say the story doesn't have a leg to stand on , ha , ha , ha ) about busting up a drug business with little to recommend it except that for some bizarre reason some absolute genius thought it would be a good idea to have a man with no legs to be the films main bad guy , he has shotguns in the arms of his wheelchair , throwing stars & retractable blades . I've never seen anything quite like it that's for sure . Unfortunately Mr . No Legs isn't actually in the film that much , he dies at least 20 minutes before the end & he only has one proper fight scene which comes as a disappointment . I don't know why but I always thought Mr . No Legs would be the hero , you know fighting against all the odds & defeating all the bad guys in his fully equipped wheelchair & when he turned out to be the bad guy I was a bit surprised as I think the film would have worked better with him as someone to root for . Director Browning was obviously working on a low budget & the infrequent action scenes vary , some are very good & well choreographed while other's are slow & sluggish . I must mention the pretty cool car chase at the end which lasts for the whole final 15 minutes , Browning probably didn't have much to work with but he sure tried to put as much action on screen as he could . My favourite scene in the film is when Mr . No Legs is facing up to someone who wants to kill him , Mr . No Legs climbs out of his chair & puts his fists up to the guy even though without legs Mr . No Legs doesn't reach past his waist ! There are several other priceless , strange , funny & bizarre moments in the film but not really enough . Technically the film is a bit rough around the edges , it's reasonably well made but it isn't going to win any awards with bland music , cinematography & production design . The acting is pretty poor , there are lots of dodgy hair-dos & moustaches while the actor who plays Chuck the cop is a William Shatner look-a-like . Mr . No Legs seems to be a pretty obscure & hard to find film which to be brutally honest is no great loss to the world , harsh but true . There are some neat car stunts , a few nice fight scenes & some truly memorable sequences featuring Mr . No Legs as the toughest & meanest guy in the film even though he hasn't any legs . I'm not sure whether to give it a 6 or 7 , I think I'll give it 7 just because I genuinely think the filmmakers tried & it's generally good fun .
One of my favourite early 80's slashers , I just wish someone would release it uncut . . .	My Bloody Valentine starts deep underground in a Canadian coal mine . Two fully clothed gas-mask wearing miner's stop in one of the many dark cramped corridors , one is a woman ( Pat Hemingway ) who takes her mask off & unzips her overalls , she has a tattoo of a heart on her left breast . The other unknown miner thrust's their pick-axe into the wall behind the woman , as she suggestively begins to stroke their gas-mask tube the miner pushes her back onto the pick-axe which impales her . . . Cue opening credits after which an on screen caption informs us that it's ' Thursday , February 12th ' . The small mining town of Valentine's Bluff haven't celebrated Valentine's Day for 20 years . A tragic accident in the mine 20 years ago ended with five miners dying & the only survivor , Harry Warden ( Peter Cowper ) was confined to a mental institution . On the first anniversary of the accident Harry Warden returned & killed the two supervisors ( Fred Watters & Jeff Fulton ) who he blamed for the accident because they were both at the town's Valentine's Day party instead of the mine , that was 19 years ago & this is the first time the town of Valentine's Bluff have organised a celebration since those murders . Things start to go wrong as police Chief Jake Newby ( Don Francks ) receives a cut out human heart in a heart shaped chocolate box with a note saying ' from the heart comes a warning filled with bloody good cheer , remember what happened as the 14th draws near . . . ' The next day Chief Newby also discovers the horribly mutilated corpse of one of the organisers , Mabel Osbourne ( Patricia Hamilton ) . Together with the mine's owner & the town's Mayor ( Larry Reynolds ) Chief Newby decides to cancel the celebrations . Not everyone is pleased with the announcement & a group of miner's decide to hold their own party at the mine , despite a fearful warning from a bartender named Happy ( Jack Van Evera ) . Soon enough ' Saturday , February 14th ' , the night of the party arrives & everything at first goes well & everyone has fun , but things soon change as the mysterious man in the gas-mask & overalls is back & in an unforgiving mood . Six party-goers think it's a good idea to go down into the mine for a tour , Hollis ( Keith Knight ) , Howard Landers ( Alf Humphreys ) , Mike Stavinski ( Tom Kovacs ) , Sarah ( Lori Hallier ) , Patty ( Cynthia Dale ) & Harriet ( Terry Waterland ) head deep into the mine unaware that there is a psycho killer on the loose . Their only hope is Jessie ' T . J . ' Hanniger ( Paul Kelman ) & Axel Palmer ( Neil Affleck ) who are trying to warn them about the danger they are in , but they too become potential victims for the revenge seeking killer . Or maybe the killer's identity isn't that straight forward & there's more to their motives than just revenge for something that happened 20 years ago ? . . . Will they all make it out in one piece ? . . . Directed by George Mihalka I personally really rather like My Bloody Valentine . The script by John Beaird is well paced , has decent fairly likable characters who aren't quite as stupid as usual & some good kills . It manages to use all the slasher film clichés as well , the character who warns everyone but no one listens to them , the police Chief , teenagers who just want to party & have sex , the isolated location etc , but My Bloody Valentine uses these clichés as well as any other slasher I can think of . I thought the mine setting was cool & gave My Bloody Valentine a nice atmosphere throughout that is all to often missing from films of this type . The script also tries to throw in a twist ending that works quite well & shows that maybe a little bit more thought was put into My Bloody Valentine than one would expect . Technically My Bloody Valentine is solid , direction , good claustrophobic cinematography , acting , editing , special effects , music & in general the production values are better than I expected . Hallier makes for a pretty good leading lady & Kelman makes a decent hero , the acting is better than most slasher film from this era . Now the bad news , the obvious cuts to the gore sequences . The murders in My Bloody Valentine are so cut that at certain points it's not clear what has actually happened , it seems no attempt has been made to smooth over the cuts either & as a result the finished scenes look really choppy & awkward . These cuts also apply to the ending & again it's unclear what has actually taken place which is a problem especially as it affects the end . Unfortunately because of this there is virtually no blood , gore or violence in My Bloody Valentine , a heart in a box , a brief shot of a burned body , a fried face & a bit of bloodless pick-axe mayhem , very disappointing & not really My Bloody Valentine's fault . My Bloody Valentine also suffers from the fact there must be dozens of slasher films that are basically more or less the same , teenagers being killed by a psycho killer so it won't win any awards for originality . Overall I liked My Bloody Valentine quite a lot , it's become one of my favourite early 80's slasher ( & there's plenty to choose from ) because of it's unusual location , polished production values & good , if bloodless , kills . Definitely worth watching , it's just very frustrating as a film goer that My Bloody Valentine could have been even better without the interference of an outside body only interested in censorship & a distribution company only interested in money . Better than I expected & in my humble opinion an all round good , solid , atmospheric , well made horror film .
Entertaining Vampire horror film .	Vampires starts in New Mexico where head Vampire hunter Jack Crow ( James Woods ) leads a team of Vampire slayers in their quest to eradicate the Vampire species from the Earth . While clearing a Vampire nest out Crow is disappointed that they didn't find the Master Vampire , while celebrating their kills the Vampire Master pays them a visit & kills the entire team save for Crow , his second in command Anthony Montoya ( Daniel Baldwin ) & a prostitute named Katrina ( Sheryl Lee ) whom he bites . Knowing that any Vampire victim has a telepathic link with it's Master Crow decides to use Katrina to get to him , upon further investigation it turns out that the Vampire Master in this case is Jan Valek ( Thomas Ian Griffith ) , the very first Vampire ever who is now on a mission to find the Brezier Cross which will let him & his kind walk in sunlight . . . Directed & scored by John Carpenter this film was apparently originally slated to be directed by Russell Mulcahy & star Dolph Lundgren ! Thank God that never came to pass , also just before production began the studio cut the budget by two thirds , so instead of an eighty million dollar flick Carpenter had to rework it for a twenty million dollar budget . Anyway , the script by Don Jakoby was based on the novel ' Vampire$ ' by John Steakley ( I have never read the novel but according to Steakley in interviews the finished film contains much of his books dialogue but none of his books plot ) & is an entertaining action horror film that isn't up there with Carpenter's best it's one of his better efforts from more recent years . The character's are a mixed bag , the intense Crow played by the always watchable James Woods is a great character & you end up liking the guy but his second in command Montoya is very unlikable while Katrina the prostitute is given next to no development & it doesn't feel right when the two fall in love at the end , nothing that has happened in the film to that point indicates why the two would fall in love & it just doesn't work . Also the main Vampire villain is given very little to do , apart from two lines of dialogue & lots of dark Gothic posturing he might as well not be there . At over 100 minutes Vampires is quite a long film but it doesn't feel like it , it moves along at a good pace , it can be a bit repetitive at times but it does provide good solid gory horror themed entertainment . The twists are a little easy to predict , there's the clichéd ' forget what you've seen in the movies ' type speech in regards to Vampires ( every modern Vampire flick has to have one ) & while it's certainly good it's not a film which will linger that long in the memory . Director Carpenter needed a hit after his previous films Memoirs of an Invisible Man ( 1992 ) , In the Mouth of Madness ( 1995 ) , Village of the Damned ( 1995 ) & Escape from L . A . ( 1996 ) all flopped at the US box office & as such he goes back to basics with Vampires , it has a fairly straight forward story , plenty of action & gore as well as a nice modern clean look about it . There's a fair amount of style here , the opening scene when all the Vampire slayers get ready & strap on all their gear complete with huge weapons & sunglasses is all about cool macho posturing . I wouldn't say it's particularly scary but it does deliver on the gore front , from slashed throats to decapitated heads to burning Vampires to someone being vertically sliced in half & separating down the middle . With a supposed budget of about $20 , 000 , 000 Vampires is well made with glossy big budget Hollywood production values , the special effects are all of the real on set rubber & latex variety rather than CGI which is pleasing . Actually filmed in New Mexico . The acting is good & James Woods is just a great actor & is in top form here . Vampires is a good solid big budget Hollywood horror film with plenty of gore , special effects & action . While it's not classic Carpenter since he has made better films it's right up there with his best . Well worth a watch . Followed by two sequels , Vampires : Los Muertos ( 2002 ) with Jon Bon Jovi & Vampires : The Turning ( 2005 ) without Jon Bon Jovi .
Very enjoyable futuristic sci-fi thriller action flick .	Universal Soldier starts in Vietnam where Private Luc Deveraux ( Jean-Claude Van Damme ) & his superior Sergeant Andrew Scott ( Dolph Lundgren ) get into an argument about killing innocent Vietnamese natives & end up killing each other instead . Jump forward twenty odd years & both Deveraux , Scott & several other dead US soldiers have been re-animated as living soldiers with superhuman powers & the ability to regenerate . Nosey network reporter Veronica Roberts ( Ally Walker ) discovers what the military is up to & threatens to break the story to the public , Colonel Perry ( Ed O'Ross ) can't risk that so sends Universal Soldiers Deveraux & Scott to kill her , remembering back to Vietnam Deveraux again stops Scott from killing an innocent person & in the process annoys Perry who orders both Deveraux & Roberts hunted down & killed . . . Directed by Roland Emmerich this obvious sci-fi action cash-in on the then recent success & popularity of both Robocop ( 1987 ) & Terminator 2 : Judgment Day ( 1991 ) is actually a very enjoyable way to pass 100 odd minutes . The script by Richard Rothstein , Christopher Leitch & Dean Devlin takes prominent themes from both Robocop & Terminator 2 like the idea cybernetic type protagonists , plenty of full-on action scenes , lots of violence & profanity , a seemingly emotionless robot / soldier / cop used for corporate / military purposes that starts to regain some of their humanity as well as an attempt at a bit of social commentary & satire although these little stabs don't really hit the mark here & are a mild distraction at best . The whole film is set-up for a string of ever more ambitious set-piece action scenes & from that viewpoint Universal Soldier is all it sets out to be , an enjoyable fast paced sci-fi actioner that doesn't require too many brain cells to understand . The character's are a bit clichéd though like the reporter looking for a big story who stumbles upon more than she bargained for , the single minded military Colonel who puts the mission before anything else & a main bad guy who in this case turns out to be Sergeant Scott to chase the hero for rather tenuous reasons . It's all here , it all works very well , it's a lot of fun & there's plenty of dramatic incident if nothing else . Universal Soldier was Emmerich's break through film & has gone on to make such big budget fare like Stargate ( 1994 ) , Independence Day ( 1996 ) , the excellent ( I don't care what anyone says ) Godzilla ( 1998 ) , The Day After Tomorrow ( 2004 ) & 10 , 000 B . C . ( 2008 ) , his subsequent efforts have been considerably less bloody & violent than Universal Soldier though . He does a good job here , get the DVD version & watch it in full 2 : 35 : 1 widescreen & enjoy a stylish & well made film . There are several violent martial arts scenes , some good old bar room brawl style fights , several severed ears , there are plenty of gory gunshot wounds including a fair few head shots & a gory impaling . The action scenes are well put together from the bus chase to various shoot-outs to an exploding garage . According to the IMDb the working title for Universal Soldier was Crystal Knights , I am not sure how truthful that is because the title Crystal Knights means absolutely nothing when placed alongside the finished film which is maybe why they changed it but why call it Crystal Knights in the first place ? With a supposed budget of about $23 , 000 , 000 this is very well made with good production values , special effects , photography & stunts . Shot in Arizona . The acting is OK , I've always liked JCVD & think he's fine in this & he gets to show of his naked bum again , Lundgren has never been a great actor but he does OK in a standard mad as a hatter bad guy role & the two can fight so all in all they make a good pairing . Ed O'Ross & Jerry Orbach from Law & Order ( 1991 - 2004 ) provide the acting talent . Looking through the credits it seems that Eric Norris has a small role & he is in fact the youngest son of 80's action star Chuck Norris ! Why didn't the filmmakers just hire Chuck ? I mean JCVD , Dolph Lundgren & Chuck Norris all in the same film ? I am shaking just thinking about it . . . Universal Soldier is a great sci-fi action film that delivers both plenty of sci-fi & action just as it should , it's not the most deep or meaningful film ever but it sure entertains for 100 odd minutes & to be frank what more do you want ? Followed by the made-for-telly Canadian productions Universal Soldier II : Brothers in Arms ( 1998 ) & Universal Soldier III : Unfinished Business ( 1998 ) & then a theatrically released sequel Universal Soldier : The Return ( 1999 ) for which JCVD returned as Luc Deveraux .
I liked it but it could have been even better .	The Midnight Meat Train is set in New York City where freelance photographer Leon Kauffman ( Bradley Cooper ) lives with his waitress girlfriend Maya Jones ( Leslie Bibb ) taking & selling pictures of crime & accident scenes . Leon thinks he can do better & his mate Jurgis ( Roger Bart ) introduces him to super rich & super influential socialite it girl Susan Hoff ( Brooke Shields ) who says that she is not too impressed with his work , determined to prove her wrong & start making some money Leon sets out to take some great pictures & ends up at a subway station where he photographs a model ( Nora ) being attacked by a gang of thugs & subsequently saves her . Then it's reported soon after that the model has disappeared , retracing & investigating the events of that night Leon discovers that something very grisly is happening on the late night trains that run in the subway . . . Directed by Japanese filmmaker Ryuhei Kitamura this feature length horror film was based on a short story by British horror author Clive Barker that was published way back in 1984 in Volume One of his six volume Books of Blood series & it does show since the first hour or so of The Midnight Meat Train does tend to go round in circles with seemingly little happening in the script by Jeff Buhler . Once the initial premise that Vinnie Jones is going round slaughtering people on the subway is set-up the film doesn't do anything with it until the final twenty or so minutes where the twists & explanations kick in although strangely enough the ending is the worse part of the film with some feeble & oddly unclear attempts at trying to tie the loose ends up but there are more than a few unanswered questions left . For instance no explanation is given for the marks cut into Leon's chest , no explanation is given to the warts on Mahogany's chest , no explanation is given to who the conductor is , who cleans the blood stained trains , what the creatures are & why they are being helped or why Leon suddenly becomes the next butcher so easily . Ironically enough even though the film version could have devoted some of it's increased duration on solving these loose ends the short story actually makes a better fist of it with Barker giving much more reasoning behind the grisly events like explaining that the creatures were apparently called ' Father's ' & were a secret society that ran the world but they need human flesh to live & that the rulers of our society provided it with the mobile slaughterhouse the midnight meat train that is delivered to them every night . The cuts on Leon's chest were symbols to signify that the ' Father's ' had chosen him to become the next butcher & the warts on Mahogany's chest were to signify he was dying & that he needed to be replaced which obviously ties everything up quite nicely so why these vital points were left out of this filmed adaptation is a mystery to me . The pace is good , there's quite a bit of incident , the early mystery elements are fairly intriguing & certainly kept me watching wanting to see where it was going although there's hardly any dialogue or character's & apart from the main plot there really isn't anything else going on at all & you can sort of tell it was based on a very limited idea . One has to say that The Midnight Meat Train looks fantastic with some really stylish & cool cinematography as the camera is placed in various positions & CGI is used to provide some memorable shots like a following a bullet through someone's head or a scene in which a woman is decapitated & the shot is from her point of view before the camera zooms out of her eye showing her head lying on the floor to a fight on the train at the end & the camera does several consecutive 360 sweeps around the action as the camera goes in & out of the train in one consecutive unbroken move . In my opinion The Midnight Meat Train looks fabulous & is one of the most stylish horror flicks of recent times . There's a fair amount of gore but maybe not as much as some would have you believe , someone is hit on the back of the head & their eyeball flies out , there's plenty of blood splatter , someone is shot through the eye , there are stabbings & impalement's , people are hung up on meat hooks through their ankles , someone has their heart cut out , someone's tongue is ripped out & the whole film has a raw brutality with the art & imagery of butchery dominating the look of the film as slaughterhouses are seen & all manner of butchers implement's are used throughout . With an estimated budget of about $15 , 000 , 000 The Midnight Meat Train was dumped into 102 discount theatres by Lionsgate rather than given a full release at regular first run cinemas which is undoubtedly why it flopped . The film looks great although one or two CGI shots are poor especially some of the CGI blood which doesn't convince at all . Although set in New York this was filmed entirely in Los Angeles . The acting is good from a decent cast with Hollywood hard man Vinnie Jones only getting two words of dialogue during the entire film while Brooke Shields has a small role . The Midnight Meat Train had great potential & to be fair to it I still liked it but the ending doesn't do it any favours although the visual flair & style & some cracking gore scenes certainly make it well worth a watch if your interested in the horror genre & it's miles better than most of the recent low budget horror crap coming out & littering video store shelves at the moment .
One of Seagal's better efforts .	Under Siege starts as the USS Missouri battleship prepares for a surprise party for Capatin Adams ( Patrick O'Neal ) , a large group of caterers & musicians board the ship & the party starts . However it turns out the caterers & entertainers are in fact a highly trained team of mercenaries lead by William Stranix ( Tommy Lee Jones ) who take control of the Missouri & it's arsenal of weaponry & missiles including nuclear Tomahawks . The entire crew is captured & locked in the bow except for a seemingly harmless cook named Casey Ryback ( producer Steven Seagal ) who was locked in a freezer , now he's out , he's an ex Navy Seal & takes it upon himself to sort the bad guy's out with the help of Miss July Jordan Tate ( Erika Eleniak ) . . . This French American co-production was directed by Andrew Davis I have to say that Under Siege is one of Steven Seagal's better efforts during a time where he could actually fight & had a neck . The script by J . F . Lawton was apparently originally called Dreadnought which just sounds terrible , anyway this is a decent action flick in the Die Hard ( 1988 ) mould . I mean a group of heavily armed men capture some sort of building / boat / train / plane etc take a load of hostages , a lone one man hero has save the day single handedly & cue lots of explosions , fights , gun battles & unnecessarily gratuitous violence involving homemade bombs & combat throwing knives . Maybe I've become desensitised to really violent imagery but while looking at a film like Under Siege & even more so in it's sequel one can't help but feel violence is being glamorised , Seagal's character Casey Ryback is as brutal & vicious as any of the bad guy's here & the film becomes a constant barrage of ever increasing violent sequences of him killing the bad guy's & considering he is meant to be the hero he's not setting a great example . I must admit that I'm not too happy with the overall ' fight violence with even more violence ' message that this film portrays in no uncertain terms , don't get me wrong because I like some ass kicking violence but sometimes one can question just what sort of example these types of films are setting . Having said that this moves along at a nice enough pace , it has a good solid good vs . bad guy story with decent character's & there's plenty of action & violence that will satisfy most action flick junkies . Director Davis does a good job here , there's a nice claustrophobic feel to the tight galley-ways & corridors . The action is brisk & well choreographed although maybe a little too violent for some . There are loads of shootings & bloody bullet wounds , people are blown up by grenades , people are slashed with knives , stabbed , shoved into band saws , eyes & throats are gouged out , people are crushed by falling metal beams & someone gets a huge combat knife stuck in their head . Again I don't normally mind some gory violence but it just seemed to me that the supposed hero played by Seagal was taking as much pleasure in hurting & killing people as the bad guy's & that just sat a bit uneasily with me . With a supposed budget of about $35 , 000 , 000 this did great business at the box-office , it's well made with that big budget Hollywood action flick feel about it with over-the-top explosions & huge set-pieces . The USS Alabama battleship museum in Mobile in Alabama was used as the USS Missouri . The acting is OK , Seagal is actually thin in this , the likes of Tommy Lee Jones & Gary Busey are fine actor's & manage to compensate for Seagal's lack of talent in that particular area . Eleniak gets her breasts out to play Miss July 1989 when in fact in real life she was Playboy Playmate of the month for July 1989 , talk about typecasting . . . Under Siege is a great action flick & one of Seagal's best , it's got plenty of violence , action , explosions , great villains & a good solid story . Worth a watch for sure . Followed by the even better Under Siege 2 : Dark Territory ( 1995 ) which , for me , remains Seagal's best film .
" There's nothing more deceptive than an obvious fact . " Enjoyable mix of two historic legends .	A Study in Terror is set during Victorian times in 1888 to be precise & starts late on night in the poverty ridden London district of Whitechappell where a serial killer known as Jack the Ripper is at large , prostitute Polly Nichols ( Christiane Maybach ) is the second to dies from his blade & soon after another prostitute named Annie Chapman ( Barbara Windsor ) falls victim to the Ripper . The worlds greatest detective Sherlck Holmes ( John Neville ) & his trusty sidekick Dr . Watson ( Donald Houston ) are on the case after a set of surgical scalpels are mysteriously sent to Holmes in the post , as Holmes investigates the Ripper case the likes of blackmail , dark family secrets , lies & a whole host of other undesirable elements surface for Holmes to shift through & get to the horrible truth . . . This British production was directed by James Hill & is a surprisingly decent murder mystery . The script by Derek & Donald Ford uses the intriguing premise of having the fictional detective Sherlock Holmes tackle the still unsolved real-life case of Jack the Ripper , it's a neat idea & it works very well thanks to a good script that manages to juggle the mystery & horror elements effectively & to it's credit there's more going on in A Study in Terror than just the Ripper murders for Holmes to get to the bottom of . There are a few suspects & each one is given just about enough motive to put them in the frame for the murders yet there isn't one huge stand out candidate who are obvious , adding to a pleasing amount of mystery is a fair amount of exploitation & action which I didn't expect from a film of this vintage . The character's are good & it keeps to the basic notion of each of it's main stars , Sherlock Holmes is the unflappable super smart detective who misses literally nothing & Jack the Ripper is portrayed as a doctor as he was suspected to be in reality . It moves along at a nice pace , it will probably keep you guessing for most of it's running time & it all comes together in satisfactory climax although it never explained how Holmes himself escapes the fire , does it ? Director Hill does a better job than expected with some very atmospheric scenes set in a Victorian fog enshrouded London . The period sets , costumes & props are excellent with with lots of attention to detail throughout . There are some nice moments here especially the long point-of-view murder of the fourth prostitute late on in the film . This was probably considered pretty strong back in 1965 & while not up there with the likes of todays horror films there's some decent gore here , there's a scene set in a slaughter house complete with lots of hanging , gutted pig carcasses , someone has a knife shoved through their neck , there's a slit throat & a cool scene when someone is stabbed in a water trough & the camera is based in the bottom so we can see clouds of blood discolour the water from underneath . Technically A Study in Terror is great , we British know how to turn in a decent period effort & there's even an impressive fiery climax featuring a fight between Holmes & the Ripper in a burning pub . The acting is fine & I loved the cockney accents especially all the prostitutes who were a hoot , there's a good cast here including Barbara Windsor , Oscar winner Judi Dench , Robert Morley , Frank Finlay & Adrienne Corri . A Study in Terror is a neat film that was much better than I was expecting , if your looking for an atmospheric murder mystery with some added exploitation then A Sudy in Terror might be what your after . Definitely worth a watch .
Not sure what to make of it .	The Passion of the Christ is set in Jerusalem where a prophet called Jesus Christ of Nazareth ( James Caviezel ) is arrested by Roman guards late at night after being betrayed by one of his disciples Judas ( Luca Lionello ) . Jesus is taken to stand trial for blasphemy & stating that he is the son of God . Because of a large public uprising against Jesus he is scourged , then crucified & left to die . . . Co-written , produced & directed by Mel Gibson where does one start with the extremely controversial film that is The Passion of the Christ ? Firstly I would like to point out that I am not a religious person at all & I will openly admit I have never even read the bible & I don't go to Church but even so I was curious to see The Passion of the Christ . It's probably fair to say that every single person on Earth who is old enough to actually see The Passion of the Christ knows the basic story of Jesus Christ & his crucifixion & therefore will probably go into it with at least a certain amount of expectation . For a start the entire film is spoken in either Assyrian Neo-Aramaic , Aramaic , Latin or Hebrew with no English dialogue at all . Although subtitled the dialogue is actually rather sparse as The Passion of the Christ is all about imagery , beliefs & in particular a story with character's everyone already knows . At over two hours in length I must admit it felt a lot less , I found the story itself gripping & engaging although I have no idea how closely writers Gibson & Benedict Fitzgerald stuck to the source & that ending felt tacked on & like a cheap horror filmed cliché , is that what actually happened in the bible ? Although often criticised for it's graphic violence it doesn't kick in until about the hour mark when Jesus is scourged in a sequence which will test the more squeamish viewers endurance before the crucifixion at the end . As a film I actually rather liked it but as a presentation of religious fact I can't say that I am qualified to judge it since I really don't have that much knowledge about Christianity . Director Gibson does a mighty fine job here , the film looks wonderful with immaculate production design & you really feel that your there . Gibson likes his slow motion shots , the film is littered with them although as I have already mentioned The Passion of the Christ is more about imagery than dialogue . The special make-up effects are very realistic & although not quite as gory as some people may have you believe it is pretty strong stuff especially since the character's & the story mean so much to so many people . Up to the point when it was released The Passion of the Christ had more pre ticket sales than any other film in history , unusually when it was re-released to theatres after it's initial run it went straight back to the number one spot & The Passion of the Christ is the both most successful ' R ' rated & foreign language / subtitled film in US box-office history . Facts & figure that I bet no-one predicted . With a supposed budget of about $30 , 000 , 000 The Passion of the Christ is very well made with high production values & that Hollywood polish , set in Jerusalem this was actually filmed in Italy . The acting is very good although since everyone is speaking in a foreign language it's hard to tell for sure ( for all I know they could be saying anything ! ) , it's surprising that there are no big name stars in the cast . The Passion of the Christ is a film that I actually liked but not for any reason beyond that I though it was a good film that passed a couple of hours . Maybe those with strong religious belief's either way may have a harder time liking it or maybe they will like it even more , I don't know . How exactly do Christians in general feel about The Passion of the Christ anyway ?
" Man killing plants , I'm not drunk am I ? " Decent British Sci-Fi / horror .	The Day of the Triffids starts with a brief narration that talks about carnivorous plants , the Venus Fly Trap in particular & that a new species has been discovered & named the Triffid . The planet Earth is experiencing a once in a lifetime event , it is being bombarded by a shower of meteorites that burn up before they reach the Earth surface but illuminate the night sky with bright flashes of light . . . However naval officer Bill Masen ( Howard Keel ) can't witness the spectacle as he has recently undergone an eye operation & the bandages need to stay on until the morning . The morning arrives & Bill takes the bandages off himself & finds Dr . Soames ( Ewan Roberts ) who says he is blind , as is everyone else who looked at the meteorite shower the previous night . Unfortunately that accounts for just about the entire population of Earth , if that wasn't enough to cope with the new Triffid plants uproot themselves & kill any living creature they can sting with their tendrils . Together with a young girl named Susan ( Janina Faye ) Bill sets out to find help & safety . . . This classic British Sci-Fi / horror was directed by Steve Sekely ( & apparently an uncredited Freddie Francis ) & still holds up pretty well even today , over forty years after it's initial release . The script by executive producer Philip Yordan based on the novel by John Wyndham moves along at a nice pace , entertains & the basic story has a timeless quality about it . The fact that nearly the entire human race has been blinded & therefore make easy prey for the Triffids is quite a creepy one when you think about it . The character's are fairly likable if a little bland & forgettable . There are some good scenes in The Day of the Triffids particularly a fog enshrouded sequence in a forest where a car stuck in mud is menaced by a shadowy Triffid & the opening scene with the night watchman in the conservatory . The parts in the lighthouse with Karen ( Janette Scott ) & Tom Goodwin ( Kieron Moore ) stick out like a sore thumb as they never interact with any of the other cast members , rumour has it these scenes were shot by Francis because the original length of the film was too short . The climax of the film felt rushed & both too convenient & happy . The special effects in The Day of the Triffids vary greatly , considering when it was made most of the optical effects are acceptable although the Triffids themselves are the biggest disappointment coming across very fake looking & distinctly unscary or unthreatening . You can't take some of the attack scenes seriously which lessens the films impact overall & even the opening shots of a fake Venus Fly Trap look terrible , couldn't the filmmakers find a real one ? Technically apart from the dodgy effects The Day of the Triffids is OK with decent music , cinematography & solid production values . The acting is alright although Keel makes for a somewhat bland hero who it's difficult to root ( ! nice pun ! ) for . The Day of the Triffids is still definitely worth a watch if your a Sci-Fi fan but modern audiences may find it a bit too dated . The British TV station the BBC made The Day of the Triffids ( 1981 ) as a six part TV series which is meant to be even better than this .
" He has his Father's eyes . " Entertaining psychological horror .	Rosemary's Baby starts as a young seemingly very in love couple named Rosemary ( Mia Farrow ) & Guy Woodhouse ( John Casavetes ) decide to take an apartment in a Manhattan complex , despite it's rather notorious history . Rosemary meets another young woman named Terry Gionoffrio ( Victoria Vetri as Angela Dorian ) who that night is found dead on the street below her apartment , presumably having committed suicide . Rosemary & Guy both meet the old people Terry was staying with during the aftermath , Minnie ( Ruth Gordon who won an Oscar for her performance ) & Roman Castevet ( Sidney Blackmer ) who start to show a great interest in the young couple . Suddenly Guy's acting career takes off in unfortunate circumstances when a fellow actor goes blind overnight & Guy is given the role . One night Rosemary has a nightmare about being raped by a creature of some sort while her neighbour's & Guy look on , but she wakes up the next morning in good health apart from some scratches which don't really bother her . Shortly after this Rosemary is informed that she is pregnant , both her & Guy are over joyed . But the Castevet's still show an unhealthy interest in Rosemary & her baby , they persuade Guy to make Rosemary see a different Doctor , Dr . Abraham Sapirstein ( Ralph Bellamy ) , make Rosemary drink all sorts of strange stuff & control her entire life . A friend of Rosemary's , Edward ' Hutch ' Hutchinson ( Maurice Evans ) suspects that the Castevet's may not be as harmless as they seem but mysteriously lapses into a coma & dies . Rosemary has no-one as she believes Guy is in on the conspiracy which threatens both Rosemary & her unborn baby . . . Written & directed by Roman Polanski I thought Rosemary's Baby was a solid piece of psychological horror but is perhaps a little slow for todays generation . The script by Polanski based on the novel by Ira Levin of the same name is a little slow & I found my patience wearing a bit thin at times but I must admit Rosemary's Baby is quite gripping & involving , it's a film which rewards patience & the effort it takes to watch it properly . Rosemary's Baby is a complex film that requires thought on the part of the viewer to fully appreciate it , otherwise it will just come across a boring overlong film with no explosions , swearing or special effects . The detailed & intricate screenplay builds the characters up nicely which is essential because we , the viewer that is , need to have some sort of emotional attachment to them for the films climax to be successful in the way Polanski intended . While the pace of Rosemary's Baby is undoubtedly slow it never lapses into boredom as we witness & experience Rosemary's paranoia grow as the film progresses , it is consistently interesting & provides good solid thoughtful entertainment . There is no gore in Rosemary's Baby except a bloody head but it's a film which doesn't need cheap gore effects to hold it's audience , it uses good storytelling instead . There is some nudity too , but not much . Technically Rosemary's Baby is very good , it has dated a bit but nowhere near as much as you might expect a film from 1968 to have . The cinematography by William A . Fraker is solid & does a good job of capturing the streets of New York & the creepy apartment block , Polanski's direction is tight , effective & accomplished throughout . The acting is very strong by all of the cast with Farrow being a particular stand-out as she suffer's a spiral descent into her own personal hell . Overall I liked Rosemary's Baby as a one time watch , it was interesting & provided one of the most famous ending in horror film history which doesn't disappoint as it hits all the right notes . Having said that at well over the two hour mark I won't be in any hurry to watch it again , ever probably as it's a little too slow for my tastes & especially since I know what's going to happen . A good film if your prepared to put the time & effort in but maybe not quite the classic many make out . Definitely worth watching particularly since it probably turns up on TV a lot & can be brought dirt cheap on DVD these days .
" The impossible scenario we never come up with a plan for ? Well , we'd better come up with a plan . "	The X Files starts in ' North Texas 35 , 000 B . C . ' which at that point in time looks more like the Artic . Two primitive cavemen ( Craig Davis & Carrick O'Quinn ) find shelter from the harsh elements inside a cave . They also find an alien creature that kills one of them before the other caveman stabs it to death , however the aliens spilt blood seems to be alive . . . Jump forward to ' North Texas Present Day ' where a young boy named Stevie ( Lucas Black ) falls into the cave that has lied undisturbed for 1000's of years , it's not long before he is infected with the alien blood . Soon after a group of sinister men in suits arrive to clean up . . . The X Files are now closed & both FBI agents Fox Mulder ( David Duchovny ) & Dana Scully ( Gillian Anderson ) are assigned to more mundane tasks like dealing with terrorist threats in Dallas where Mulder discovers a bomb which ends up detonating & destroying a building , causing $45 , 000 , 000 in damage & killing five people . Someone has to take the blame & Mulder & Scully are it , however a Dr . Alvin Kurtzweil ( Martin Landau ) contacts Mulder & says that the explosion was in fact planned by his own people to dispose of three bodies infected with the alien virus . Mulder decides to investigate Kurtzweil's claims & discovers aliens , conspiracy's , cover ups , shadowy figures & a sinister plan that could wipe out the entire human race . . . Directed by Rob Bowman the only , thus far , big screen outing for Mulder & Scully is a pretty good film , I have seen most of the TV series although not since they were first aired here in the UK probably over 10 years ago now so it is hard for me to compare the two . The script by Chris Carter works well , the basic story is good although I have to say any fan of the series may find it somewhat linear & predictable . The film also has a big climax in which it starts to resemble Aliens ( 1986 ) . I think I'm right in saying that the alien blood featured in this film is also present in some of the TV episodes so I guess it doesn't really take things in any new direction . I also thought that it went on for too long , I personally like short films as my interest begins to wain easily & I must admit I did start to look at the clock to see how long was left . I would have preferred if the story had more of a mystery element , we the viewer know what's happening & we have to wait for Mulder to catch up , as it were . Director Bowman , a veteran of the series , does nothing spectacular . There are a few nice wide aerial shots of deserts , snow covered landscapes but for the most part it looks like the TV series . There are a few aliens in it , a fairly tame autopsy & a few splashes of blood but nothing too graphic . With a budget of about $66 , 000 , 000 all I have to say is where did the money go ? That's a hell of a lot of money for a mostly character driven film with two big CGI effects ( a building blowing up & a huge spacecraft at the end ) & no major stars . It's well made & has that Hollywood polish to it but that is a lot of money considering what ended up on screen , to my eyes anyway . The acting is OK but it's not like Duchovny or Anderson haven't had practise in the roles , is it ? The X Files is a good film with a entertaining sci-fi type plot , fans would probably be disappointed as I don't think it's a radical departure form the TV series but , as I said , I think it's a solid film . Definitely worth a watch especially for sci-fi fans .
" Your attracted , she's not even my species & I'm attracted . " Fun if somewhat familiar sequel .	Men in Black II starts one dark New York City night , an intergalactic spacecraft crashes in Central Park , an alien life-form named Serleena emerges & takes the form of a underwear model ( Lara Flynn Boyle ) , Serleena is looking for the powerful Light of Zarthar & heads straight for two-headed alien Charlie ( Johnny Knoxville ) who tipped her off about the Light being on Earth . Eventually the trail leads to an alien named Ben ( Jack Kehler ) who runs a pizza place who Serleena kills as witnessed by shop assistant Laura Vasquez ( Rosario Dawson ) who then comes into contact with the Men in Black as Agent Kay ( Will Smith ) & Agent Tee ( Patrick Warburton ) are sent to investigate . When it becomes clear that Serleena is after the Light of Zarthar the MIB boss Zed ( Rip Torn ) says only one person knows about the Light , Agent Kay ( Tommy Lee Jones ) who has been neutralised . Agent Jay must convince Agent Kay to come out of retirement , help regain his memory , stop Serleena & save the planet Earth ! Directed by Barry Sonnenfeld who also has a small cameo role , I thought Men in Black II was pretty good if undemanding fun & personally that's all I really think it sets out to achieve . The script by Robert Gordon & Barry Fanaro based on the comic book by Lowell Cunningham moves along like a rocket & is never dull or boring with some huge special effects sequence not too far away . From flying cars & spacecraft chasing each other over Times Square & a spacecraft travelling through space destroying every planet as it goes to huge alien worms half eating a New York subway train & a variety of bizarre aliens . The humour is still here but somehow doesn't seem as funny this time around as Men in Black II as a whole is very similar to the original Men in Black ( 1997 ) , I often smiled but I never flat out laughed . The character's are still very likable but basically the same as the original with Laura becoming Agent Jay's love interest & the sexy Serleena the obligatory villain dressed in black leather , hey it works for me ! One thing that Men in Black II lacks is a decent interesting story for it's character's , everything that happens in the film seems to be there purely to show off an effect , in fact Men in Black II could be described as one overblown & silly special effect after another with very little regard to what takes place between . While on the subject of the special effects I must admit that I wasn't that impressed with some of them , Will Smith riding Jeff the huge alien worm at the start look fake as does Creepy ( Michael Baily Smith ) the O-Zone stealing large headed flying saucer riding trio of duplicate aliens , the two headed alien played by Johnny Knoxville is both highly irritating , has probably the poorest effects & strangely just disappears two thirds through the film never to be seen again ! Considering Men in Black II wasn't made that long ago I'd say the special effects are actually quite poor . With a massive estimated budget of $140 , 000 , 000 & at less than 90 minutes long it's difficult to see where all that money went , unless it was on Smith's salary . It definitely has that big budget Hollywood look & polish about it although nothing really impressed or stood out that much . The acting is OK & both Smith & Jones work well together as mismatched MIB partners . Dawson as Laura is hardly in it while the same can be said for both Knoxville & Flynn Boyle as the villains which is a shame as Boyle makes for a good baddie , in leather . I have given Men in Black II as I was entertained , had fun watching it & as a mindless way to pass 90 odd minutes it's great but as a proper emotive , thought provoking film with a moral or a message then it falls well short of the mark . I think it's well worth a watch as long as your expectations aren't too high & are just able to have fun with it .
" How exactly did this happen . . . exactly . " Surprisingly decent little teen horror / Sci-Fi thing .	The Source begins as troubled teen goth Reese Hauser ( Mathew Scollon ) & his Father Jerry ( Johnny Venocur ) look to start a new life in a non discript American town somewhere . Things get off to a bad start as Reese quickly finds himself & his goth lifestyle being ridiculed by just about everyone else , add this to the fact that his Father is the new history teacher , the school principal McKinley ( Ronald Rezac ) is a bit of a bully himself & things are not going well . However Reese is befriended by fellow losers , goth's & nerds Zack Bainbridge ( Edward DeRuiter ) , his sister Ashley ( Melissa Renee Martin ) & their friend Phoebe Lewis ( Alice Frank ) . While out exploring some lithium deposits in some local woods the four discover a magical rock which concentrates all the lithium's power into one stream which , when stepped in , enhances ones psychical attributes as well as unlocking secret dormant powers , Zack calls it ' scionics ' . Zack gains the power of telepathy , Ashley has the power to control others & phoebe has the power of telekinesis while Reese has the power of psychical regeneration & healing . At first they use their new found powers to gain a humiliating but ultimately harmless revenge on their tormentors , that is until one of the group decides use their powers for rather more sinister reasons . . . Edited , co-written & directed by Steve Taylor I was quite surprised at how much I didn't hate The Source , I think that's a better way of putting it than how I much I liked it as I don't really want to give the impression that The Source is any sort of masterpiece . The script by Taylor & Roger Kristian Jones moves along at a fair pace & to be brutally honest rips-off The Craft ( 1996 ) , or should that be borrows some of it's ideas & themes ? I unexpectedly quite liked the character's in The Source , they all have just enough personality to be likable which was essential if The Source is to work as a film & engage the viewer while a special mention goes to the the girls in The Source who are seriously hot which doesn't hurt . Generally it's pretty lightweight stuff , it doesn't even try to say meaningful things about serious issues like bullying , depression , conflicts with parents , theft & friendship that The Source brings up . Instead it skates around them a little which is fine as the acting & writing involved isn't really up to high drama , but we do get lots of special powers being put to good or bad use & where on Earth did the idea of a magical rock come from ? The Source also went into a direction that I didn't expect & a nice climax . Director Taylor turns The Source into a feature length music video . He tries everything , editing tricks , shots where the camera tilt's back & forth for no apparent reason , hand held jerky shots , slow motion , reduced frame rate , the image turned upside down & various other gimmicky techniques . One more thing I have to point out is that The Source is probably the brightest film I have watched , from the garish clothes to the outside scenes where the grass looks so bright it would glow in the dark & for some reason there are flashes of light shooting around the screen all the time almost as if someone was shining a torch on random objects in the scene , very strange & I'm not sure what it's all about . The Source lacks any real violence or gore , a cut arm & a few splashes of blood is about it while there isn't any nudity either . On a technical level The Source isn't too bad considering that the budget must have been small to say the least . It was obviously shot on video rather than film which might explain why it looks so bright , unfortunately when something is shot on video it has that cheap ' n ' nasty look & feel to it . The music sounds like it has come straight from a techno rave CD while generally speaking it's quite well made . Apart , that is , from one or two poor CGI special effects particularly at the end . The acting is decent enough & I think I'm in love with Melissa Renee Martin . . . I wasn't expecting to but I actually rather liked The Source , it's nothing to heavy , it's good fun & provides 100 odd minutes worth of entertainment . Don't get me wrong it isn't brilliant but I personally think it's well worth a watch .
Hugely entertaining fantasy adventure .	Big Trouble in Little China is set in San Francisco where truck driver Jack Burton ( Kurt Russell ) meets up with an old friend Wang Chi ( Dennis Dun ) , together they go to the airport to pick up Wang's bride to be Miao Yin ( Suzee Pai ) but she is kidnapped by local Chinese thugs . Chasing them into Chinatown Jack & Wang discover strange supernatural forces are at work as the 4000 year old evil sorcerer Lo Pan ( James Hong ) needs to marry & sacrifice a green eyed girl in order to appease the Gods & become flesh & blood again . With the whole world at stake Jack & Wang team up with good sorcerer Egg Shen ( Victor Wong ) & his men to save Miao Yin & put an end to Lo Pan's evil once & for all . . . Directed by John Carpenter who also helped compose the music score this fantasy adventure film wasn't well received at the time of it's initial release but I think it's a terrifically entertaining mix of ideas , themes & genres . The script by Gary Goldman & David Z . Weinstein is notable for how many different genres it takes inspiration from & have fun with , from western to horror to sci-fi to fantasy to action adventure to martial arts to comedy to monster film & Big Trouble in Little China ends up being a rather unique flick although I hasten to add that it's a hugely entertaining one if you just sit back & enjoy the ride for what it is . I must admit I love it's mix of crazy ideas & themes , there are outrageous martial arts fights , monsters , secret worlds full of magic , ancient sorcerers , exploding people , eye creatures , daring escapes & a bizarre ritual in which Lo Pan has his brides to be hold onto a sword which then levitates to the ceiling where they have to touch a light shade for no apparent reason ! The film moves along at a good pace & at only 90 odd minutes in length the time flies by , it doesn't take itself seriously for a second , there are some very funny one-liners & the Jack Burton character is just great & makes for a very likable hero . He gets thrown into this situation & just sort of stumbles his way through it not really knowing what is going on , he never really does anything heroic & generally ends up looking a bit daft as his oriental mate comes to his rescue on more than one occasion . Big Trouble in Little China was the fourth time director Carpenter had teamed up with star Kurt Russell after Elvis ( 1979 ) , Escape from New York ( 1981 ) & The Thing ( 1982 ) & he turns in a very imaginative film , some of the fights are a little silly but the film is as a whole so that doesn't really matter that much . Overall the film isn't that violent , there are quite a few death's but nothing graphic is shown . The film is certainly very colourful although I must admit I though some of the bright neon lighting ( especially around the six armed statue in the background ) at the end looked a little too much like bright garish lighting from a cheap pop video for my liking . The special effects are generally good although do look a little dated these days , I have the 2 Disc special edition DVD of Big Trouble in Little China & the box states that it contains 46 minutes of deleted scenes which I never bothered to watch but since the finished film only lasts 90 odd minutes that's a lot of material that was cut as well as the ending which was also cut . With a supposed budget of about $25 , 000 , 000 Big Trouble in Little China absolutely bombed at the box-office big time , it made considerably less than $3 , 000 , 000 during it's opening weekend . Ouch . Having said that it's still a great film , just an obviously misunderstood one . The performances are fun with the charismatic Kurt Russell shining while Kim Cattrall is nice enough as the love interest . Big Trouble in Little China is a great film that I have always liked , it's strange mixture of fantasy , western , horror , martial arts & action adventure make it one of a kind & surprisingly it works a treat . Highly recommended for anyone looking for some light hearted fantasy entertainment .
Well worked ghost story .	What Lies Beneath is set in Vermont where Claire ( Michelle Pfieffer ) & Norman Spencer ( Harrison Ford ) live in a lakeside house , after their daughter Caitlin ( Katharine Towne ) goes to college & Norman becomes obsessed with his job Claire is left home alone . Claire becomes convinced that the woman next door has been murdered & that her spirit is haunting her house tyring to communicate with her , but the woman turns up safe & well . Claire continues to hear things & strange occurrence's happen which lead her to believe the house is haunted , but by who & what do they want . . . Produced & directed by Robert Zemeckis this supernatural ghost story has a touch of psychological thriller about it too & is a well crafted old fashioned spooky tale of dark secrets from the past coming back to hunt the present . The script by Clark Gregg is apparently a remake of the Alfred Hitchcock Presents episode Mr . Blanchard's Secret ( 1956 ) & is a coolly effective supernatural thriller , it takes itself extremely seriously but as a whole it works & succeeds at what it sets out to do . At over two hours in length it is a long film but while watching it it didn't feel that long which is always a good sign , the story is absorbing & gripping as it starts off a lot like Rear Window ( 1954 ) but it turns out to be a huge red herring & it ends like some sort of horror themed Fatal Attraction ( 1987 ) . This is the kind of film where every bit of seemingly useless exposition comes together at the end & is used , from the moment we know that the phones don't work on the bridge you just know it's going to be used somewhere & the explanation by the two scientists about the paralysing drug which stands out at the time as being extraneous is also put to good use before the film finishes . If you have the patience to stick with it , not be put off by a slightly sedate pace then What Lies Beneath is a really good supernatural thriller . Director Zemeckis made What Lies Beneath while production on another one of his films Cast Away ( 2000 ) starring Tom Hanks was shut down so Hanks could lose weight , that in itself seems a bit odd really as I would have thought you needed to give a film all your attention rather than just making one to pass the time . Anyway it didn't do the film any harm in the long run as it's very good , the film is very stylish too with a muted colour scheme that gives everything a dark , eerie overcast look & feel about it . There are plenty of jump out of your seat moments , Zemeckis uses every trick & cliché in the horror film book with people & dogs leaping into the frame unexpectedly , loud music playing when you least expect it although it also has some nice modern CGI computer effects too . The main difference here compared to lots of other horror films is that Zemeckis knows how to make the clichés work & turns in a highly effective film . The one stand out sequence is when Pfieffer is paralysed in the bath as it slowly fills with water , it's one of the most tension filled & suspenseful scenes I can remember seeing in a modern horror flick . With a supposed budget of about $90 , 000 , 000 one has to say that sounds like a hell of a lot of money for a film where not that much actually happens , it takes place almost entirely within one house with minimal effects & a small cast . Making near $30 , 000 , 000 on it's opening weekend alone I think I'm right in saying this was a big success & does prove modern audiences can sit & watch a two plus hour film which is mostly exposition based if it's done properly . The acting is very strong from the cast . What Lies Beneath is a a old school slow moving but involving supernatural horror thriller ghost story that I enjoyed a lot , I can see a lot of people being bored by it but as far as I'm concerned it's their loss .
" I'm determined to have your brain . " Pretty fun Italian Zombie / Cannibal film .	Zombi Holocaust starts in New York as it is revealed that an orderly at a hospital has been eating various parts of the autopsy cadavers like hands & hearts . When eventually unmasked he commits suicide by jumping out of a window , upon inspection of his body nurse & anthropologist Lori Ridgeway ( Alexandra Delli Colli as Alexandra Cole ) notices a tattoo on his chest which she recognises as an ancient symbol of some god that some tribe or other worship somewhere on an island called Keto . Lori instantly becomes an expert & together with Dr . Peter Chandler ( Ian McCulloch ) his assistant George Harper ( Peter O'Neal ) & his girlfriend a reporter named Susan Kelly ( Sherry Buchanan ) decide to set off to the island of Keto & see what they can see . Chandler has a contact on the mainland , Dr . Obrero ( Donald O'Brien ) who gives them a guide named Moloto ( Dakkar ) & a couple of men . After a minor incident where a rotten decapitated head covered in maggots is left in Lori's bed they travel to the island in high spirits . Once on Keto things take a turn for the worse as they encounter deadly booby traps , flesh eating cannibals , zombies , sacrificial rituals & bizarre brain transplanting experiments . . . This Italian production was directed by Marino Girolami as Frank Martin & I thought Zombi Holocaust was reasonable entertainment as long as you don't take it too seriously & have the stomach for this sort of Euro gore / exploitation film . The script by co-producer Fabrizio De Angelis , assistant director Romano Scandariato & Walter Patriarca who also acted as production designer & has a small role in the film as Professor Strafford moves along at a nice pace but can't quite decide what it wants to be . Part jungle adventure , part cannibal , part zombie & part mad scientist film all rolled into one implausible scenario ! But then again what did you expect ? Deep meaning , a life changing emotional roller-coaster , Oscar worthy performances or perhaps a film that asks profound questions about modern society & where we are headed ? Nah , didn't think so ! It's all rather silly but at the same time good fun if your in the right mood & like this sort of stuff , I also felt the ending was a little rushed almost as if director Girolami was told to wrap it up as quickly as he could . The zombie elements are virtually none existent as we get about four during the whole film & the first one doesn't turn up until the 50 odd minute mark , there are more cannibals than zombies . In fact when you think about the title Zombi Holocaust it rips-off the two most famous Italian films it's basically trying to replicate , Ruggero Deodato's infamous Cannibal Holocaust ( 1980 ) & Lucio Fulci's equally infamous Zombi 2 ( 1979 ) . In fact it actually use a bit of footage from Zombi 2 , looks like it's set on exactly the same island , has two of the stars more or less play identical characters here & I thought that large white missionary building at the end was very familiar . . . Technically Zombi Holocaust is decent enough , cinematography , direction , editing , special effects & music are adequate while not exactly outstanding . The one area where Zombi Holocaust distinguishes itself is with it's gory set pieces , there are sawn off hands , cut out hearts , sliced open chests , poked out eyes , hungry cannibals cutting stomachs open & feasting on peoples intestines , bad for your health spiked booby traps , a decapitated head , a machete in someones head , brain operations , scalping's , a boat propeller used to obliterate a zombies face , some mutilated corpses with guts hanging out everywhere & a couple of gory slit throats . While not always convincing there's enough of the red stuff flying around to keep most gore hounds happy . Delli Colli takes all her clothes off at various strategic points as well so there's plenty of nudity when there's no blood . The acting is mixed , McCulloch makes for a likable hero & O'Brien for a great villain but Delli Colli is awful , except for taking all her clothes off obviously . Zombi Holocaust is good undemanding entertainment , I liked it but it can't really match the best Italian horror but it's head & shoulders above the worst . Definitely worth a watch especially if your a Euro horror fan . Also known as Doctor Butcher M . D . which is a slightly different cut of the film & is quite a cool sounding title .
" I hate just sitting here like this . " Surprisingly decent .	Night Skies starts as Matt ( George Stults ) & his fiancé Lilly ( A . J . Cook ) along with his younger sister Molly ( Ashley Peldon ) plus two married friends Joe ( Joseph Sikora ) & June ( Gwendoline Yeo ) are driving across the Arizona desert in an attempt to get to Las Vegas , all seems fine until they notice some strange lights in the night sky flying in formation . However much to Matt's cost looking at lights in the sky & driving a large motor home don't mix & he loses control , almost hits another truck on the road & puts the motor home into a tree . In the aftermath of the accident it comes to light that Joe now has a huge kitchen knife stuck in his back & there seems to no way to get him to hospital , as the night draws on it becomes apparent that they are not alone as they are stalked & taken by alien beings . . . Directed by Roy Knyrim I was rather surprised by Night Skies , sure it ain't Alien ( 1979 ) in the excitement department & it reminds heavily of an X-Files ( 1993 - 2003 ) episode which were airing over 10 years prior to this being made but as a stand alone film I found it quite impressive . The sci-fi / horror orientated script by Eric Miller which takes itself extremely seriously is apparently based on true events that happened in Arizona during 1997 , living in the UK I really don't have a clue about these events , & is based the usual witness statements & the like . To be fair it's sort of predictable up to a point & it only goes as far as to dramatise one night seemingly based on one guy's recollection so it doesn't offer any of it's own answers up & it just ends abrupt without really trying to say anything about what happened , but then again I suppose it's just trying to relay the facts of the case & wants to let us , the audience , decide for ourselves . To be fair during the first 20 minutes of Night Skies nothing happens , it just introduces the character's , not that much happens after either but at least the film has now put them in position where the last 30 minutes are actually terrific , the stalking of the group by the aliens & what they finally do with them is pretty cool . The character's are OK as is the dialogue & if it wasn't for the coma inducing first half Night Skies could have a great film , as it is I'll say it's a good one . Director Knyrim does a great job here , there's a decent atmosphere & the alien attack at the end is really good even if it's a bit rushed at times . The special effect are excellent & are very impressive , the aliens themselves look somewhat stereotypical with very thin pale bodies , elongated heads with bulbous black eyes & spindly fingers & most of the time they're shot in partial or complete shadow until the very end in they're spaceship where you can appreciate the excellent effects work . The very organic looking interior of the spaceship is cool with strands of what looks like melted cheese & slime hanging everywhere like huge cheesy spider webs ! There's some gore , that knife in Joe's back looks painful as there are plenty of close-ups with blood spurting from the wound , someone is shot & there's some decent blood splatter . Technically Night Skies is excellent , the cinematography is good even though it may be a bit bright considering the situation the film is trying to portray . The acting was pretty good , Sean Connery's son Jason gets abducted & experimented on by aliens . I wonder if his dad has seen Night Skies ? If he has at least Jason can say something like ' well dad it could have been worse at least I didn't appear in The Avengers ' . . . . Night Skies surprised me as I thought it was going to low budget crap , while the first half is a snooze-fest it picks up for an excellent climax with some highly impressive special effects which wouldn't look out of place in your local theatre & it's got Sean Connery's son in it , enough said . Certainly nothing original but I liked it a lot more than I thought I would all the same .
" Just because you've never seen it doesn't mean it doesn't exist . " Decent ' creatuire feature ' , one of the better examples in fact .	Bugs starts with a cop ( Xuan Fraser ) chasing a suspect into subway tunnel construction site , once inside the cop is killed by something nasty lurking in the shadows . . . FBI agent Matt Pollack ( Antonio Sabato Jr . ) is called in when the cops limbless torso is discovered & is thought to be the work of a serial killer whom Pollack is after . Pollack disagrees but stays on the case when he finds some strange slime on the body , it is sent to entomologist Emily Foster ( Angie Everhart ) who confirms the substance is insect enzyme & she has never seen anything like it before . Meanwhile the half completed subway tunnel is hosting a VIP party on a train when the guests are attacked & slaughtered by large scorpion type insects that have been awoke from they're centuries long hibernation by the construction . Word of the massacre gets to Pollack & Foster who call in a special marine unit lead by officer Benton ( Duane Murray ) to prevent whatever's lurking down there from making it out . . . This Canadian production was directed by Joseph Conti & I personally thought Bugs was a throughly entertaining & harmless way to pass 80 odd minutes ( it states on the IMDb that with commercials it runs 120 ! Talk about ruining the pacing & flow of a film ! But not the version I saw thankfully . . . ) . The script by Robinson Young , Patrick Doody & Chris Valenziano is at heart a pretty clichéd creature feature but I think one of the better ones that I have seen . Bugs has a conveyor belt script , the monster threat that become intelligent when the story needs them to be , the isolated location , the race against time , the hero , the scientist , the marines with big guns , the corrupt corporate official & the disposable creature food . Having said that the clichés aren't as annoying as usual , it moves along at a really nice pace has surprising amounts of gore , decent CGI & puppet creature effects , a neat underground subway location & has a good feel to it . One thing I did notice is how much it rips-off or pay homage , whichever way you want to look at it I suppose , to the film Aliens ( 1986 ) which in itself isn't a bad thing because every sci-fi horror lover knows how great Aliens is . I mean the marines sent into the creatures nest & their extermination relayed back via a video link & radio , the retreat from the nest to the safety of a getaway vehicle with the creatures in hot pursuit , the forming of barricades , the character's , one problem cropping up after another one being caused by an explosion , lots of dark tunnels & corridors , the strong female & male heroes , the fight with the queen at the end & just the overall feel of Bugs resembles Aliens very closely . Director Conti does an OK job & it is certainly better than it's made for TV status would have suggested , it isn't the best film ever but I think Bugs is far from the worst . The creatures themselves look like a cross between a scorpion & spider & are pretty cool , Conti wisely keeps them in the shadows & flickering lights to maintain their creepiness & try to hide any deficiencies in the CGI which I thought was actually rather good . There are pleasing amounts of gore , the cop at the beginning is impaled & his limbless torso is found & medically examined , there are severed arms , sliced throats & Conti doesn't forget about the red stuff either as every attack seems to feature fountains of blood spraying everywhere which is by no means a bad thing . Technically the Bugs is very good considering the TV budget limitations , it's somewhat bland & forgettable but it's well made & doesn't embarrass itself in any department . I must mention the computer systems in Bugs as they actually look plausible & realistic for a change . The acting was OK . Bugs was a pleasant surprise , maybe I've seen so many bad ' creature feature ' type films that a film like Bugs seems like a masterpiece . Hell , it's definitely better than Python ( 2000 ) . I think Bugs is well worth a watch especially if you like these monster films .
Not as good as the previous two but still not too bad .	Beyond Re-Animator starts with an innocent woman named Emily Phillips ( Barbara Elorrieta ) being attacked & killed by a zombie ( Angel Plana ) in front of her younger Brother Howie ( Tommy Dean Musset ) , as the police arrive & blow the zombie away Howie witnesses them arrest & take away Dr . Herbert West ( Jeffrey Combs ) from a nearby cemetery & finds a needle with some strange bright green fluid inside . It's ' 13 Years Later ' & Dr . West has spent those years in Arkham State Penitentiary trying to keep his experiments alive by using rats as test subjects , Howard Phillips ( Jason Barry ) is now a qualified Doctor & has got a job as the prison MD . Howard asks Warden Brando ( Simon Andreu ) if he can have Dr . West as his assistant which he can , their first patient is an inmate named Moses ( Nico Baixas ) who has a heart attack & dies . Howard reveals who he is to West & that he has some of his serum which they use on Moses to bring him back to life . At this point Warden Brando & a journalist named Laura Olney ( the gorgeous Elsa Pataky ) walk in & see Moses as a mindless zombie . Both Warden Brando who senses a ground-breaking discovery & Laura who senses a big story decide to investigate the incident as Howard uses his position to assist West in his experiments , but as usual things quickly spiral out of control & turn into an absolute bloodbath . . . This Spanish American co-production was co-written , co-produced & directed by Brian Yuzna & I thought Beyond Re-Animator was a pretty decent horror film , although not as good as the previous two instalment's Re-Animator ( 1985 ) & Bride of Re-Animator ( 1990 ) . The script by Yuzna & Jose Manuel Gomez based on the story by H . P . Lovecraft moves along at a fairly good pace but does take a while to get going , it doesn't stray too far from the Re-Animator themes & ideas . The character's are OK if a little clichéd . There are plenty of over-the-top sequences & set piece's in Beyond Re-Animator which is what the film is all about when it comes down to it , a prisoner ends up with no lower body , someone explodes , the evil warden gets electrocuted , there's a castration , a cool zombie without any jaw & his tongue exposed , breast biting , zombie rats , decapitation & a babe in a dominatrix outfit who knows how to fight in probably my favourite scene . Beyond Re-Animator never seems to take itself too seriously & it's all good fun if you have the stomach & liking for this type of material . Director Yuzna plays the comedy side of things up a little bit too much for my liking on occasion but films everything with a degree of style & imagination . Technically Beyond Re-Animator is polished & well made although the quality of some of the special effects vary & the use of CGI feels out of place & odd in a Re-Animator film which were always full of fake blood & guts . The traditional Re-Animator theme music is present once again but has been slightly re-arranged by composer Richard Band & the cinematography is fine . Jeffrey Combs as Herbert West is excellent once again , even though the guy is evil you just like him . Spanish actress Elsa Pataky is totally gorgeous & I loved the scenes with her at the end dressed in that cool outfit . . . Everyone else is rather weak & I didn't particularly like Jason Barry as West's new assistant as he is certainly no Dan Cain ( Bruce Abbott ) from the previous two films . Beyond Re-Animator is mindless entertainment , there are enough stand-out scenes to make it highly enjoyable but at the same time it lacked a certain something . The gore wasn't as plentiful as I had expected & it descended into plain silly farce more than I would have liked . Still well worth a watch if only for Pataky whom is seriously hot in leather & high heels . . .
Throughly entertaining horror film with Vampires .	30 Days of Night is set in the ( very ) small town of Barrow in Alaska which has the distinction of being the northern most town in the U . S . , it is isolated in 80 miles of road-less wilderness which is cut off & plunged into total darkness all day every winter for thirty days straight . During this time the population of Barrow drops from 563 to 152 as most of the townspeople head to somewhere more hospitable for the winter , the few that do stay this particular winter are in for a rough time as a group of blood drinking Vampire like creatures descend on the town in order to kill everyone & drink their blood . A small group of assorted survivors lead by Sheriff Eben Olesen ( Josh Hartnett ) & his wife Stella ( Melissa George ) must try to hide & make it through the 30 days of night until helps arrives in the form of the sun . . . This New Zealand & American co-production was directed by David Slade & this horror film did pretty good box-office back in 2007 & I have to say I rather liked it , I didn't think it was any sort of classic but I definitely liked it . The script by Steve Niles , Stuart Beattie & Brian Nelson was based on the Dark Horse graphic novel of the same name by Niles & is a pretty grim ' base under siege ' type horror thriller that is best described as a cross between The Thing ( 1982 ) & John Carpenter's Vampires ( 1998 ) ( coincidently both of which were directed by John Carpenter which means absolutely nothing , come to think of it it's not to dissimilar to Ghosts of Mars ( 2001 ) also directed by Carpenter . . . ) as it's set in a freezing snow covered isolated location & features hordes of blood drinking vampires , it certainly takes itself very seriously & there isn't a light hearted moment in it but it is quite often very intense & I did like it's conviction . The character's are slightly better than what one would expect , both Sheriff Oleson & his wife have personality which makes the downbeat ending a bit of a bummer . I mean after watching a fairly grim & intense Vampire flick for 100 odd minutes featuring plenty of death & destruction I would have liked a bit more cheerful ending but that's just me . There's enough action & gore to satisfy hardened horror addicts although not all aspects of the story are as good as I would have liked . For instance who were the Vampires ? Where did they come from ? If it was blood they were after why did they kill people in such a way all their blood was splattered over the wall or floor ? Why did that main Vampire at the end fight Sheriff Oleson ? Why did all the other Vampires just stand there & watch as their leader was killed ? Why didn't they then kill Oleson ? Director Slade does a very good job here & films with style in full 2 : 35 : 1 widescreen , some of the opening shots of the Alaskan horizon as the sun sets over the snow covered landscape looks great & he thankfully keeps his camera nice & steady so we can actually see the carnage . I loved the aerial shot from above the town as the camera moved over the main street as the vampires attack , there are huge red splodges of blood everywhere , fires burning & Vampires attacking people all viewed in one continuous cool looking shot from the sky ! The special effects are impressive , both the CGI computer variety & the more traditional prosthetic make-up effects sort . The Vampire creatures look very good & quite intimidating , I love how they walk around with old blood stains from their victims on their faces & clothes & don't bother to wash it off . There's some good gore here as well , there is plenty of blood splatter with chopped off heads , decapitations , slashed & bitten out throats , gunshot wounds including Vampires having their heads literally shot off , blood drinking & a real crowd pleasing moment when a huge trench is used to carve up several Vampires as well as a cool scene at the end when a Vampire falls into a masher & is suitably mashed . The film has a good atmosphere & a real sense of isolation , there's some nice jump out of your seat moments too . With a supposed budget of about $32 , 000 , 000 30 Days of Night is well made with high production values . Although set entirely within the snow covered confines of Alaska in the U . S . 30 Days of Night was in fact filmed entirely in New Zealand . The acting is good from all involved , in case any football fans from the UK are wondering the main Vampire played by Ben Foster is not the same Ben Foster who is currently one of Manchester United's goalkeepers ! Credit where credit is due Melissa George is nice & easy on the eye too . 30 Days of Night is a really good horror thriller that I enjoyed a lot , the story isn't quite as tight as I would have liked ( how did that kid who popped up at the end survive for so long ? ) but it makes for good late night entertainment which might even give you a few scares . Followed by the made-for-TV mini-series 30 Days of Night : Blood Trails ( 2007 ) .
Enjoyable Sci-Fi action thriller blockbuster .	I , Robot is set in Chicago , 2035 where the headquarters of US Robotics is located . US Robotics is the largest manufacturer of robots in the world & the use of Robot servants by humans is common , the Robots are governed by three laws which prevent them from harming a human but homicide detective Del Spooner ( Will Smith ) is suspicious of them . Spooner then gets a holographic message from US Robotics founder & Robot creator Dr . Alfred Lanning ( James Cromwell ) who has recently committed suicide . Del suspects that Lanning discovered something about his Robots & that they killed him but no-one believes him . Together with Robot psychologist Dr . Susan Calvin ( Bridget Moynahan ) detective Spooner investigates Lannings suicide & becomes convinced it was murder & that the Robots which are everywhere & in almost every home in the world are planning something . . . This American German co-production was originally developed under the title Hardwired & was directed by Alex Proyas , I must admit I actually really rather liked this big budget CGI laden Sci-Fi action blockbuster . Apparently taking the works of Isaac Asimov ( the Robotic three laws in particular ) as inspiration the script by Jeff Vintar & Akiva Goldsman starts off in intriguing murder mystery fashion , an old school detective thriller set in the future as it were but then with about thirty odd minutes to go it turns into the predicted overblown noisy Hollywood action vehicle which is fine since I suppose that's all anyone really expected it to be anyway . The neat murder mystery elements are a good bonus while they last & I liked I , Robot more when it was dealing with the murder & various conspiracies than when it decides to go down the huge action set-piece route . The character's are a bit thin on the ground & it takes Will Smith to really carry the film which he does . Love him or loathe him one has to say he sure has made some great films & his acting is getting better , I must admit I thought he was great in I , Robot & he turns Spooner into a really charismatic likable hero with plenty of amusing one-liners & quips . I loved the exchange he has with Dr . Calvin where she ask's if he has ' Ever had a normal day ? ' to which he replies ' Yeah , once . It was a Thursday ' . Well it made me laugh anyway . The film has a good pace , it moves along in a logical & interesting way which keeps you watching & overall it's an effective & enjoyable futuristic thriller . The vision of the future that I , Robot paints is actually very hard to believe if you think about it , upright walking Robotics is more or less dead & has no practical use . Even now there's no great desire or need for Robots like the ones in the film & they wouldn't work in reality as in the film anyway . I , Robot is packed with CGI computer effects , in fact I would bet there aren't too many scenes which don't feature some sort of optical effect . While they look nice enough & are animated with great detail you just know that what your looking at is a CGI computer graphic . Not once during I , Robot did I actually think I was looking at a real Robot . There are some good set-pieces including a house being demolished while Will Smith is still inside it , there's some nice motorbike stunts , an expensive looking CGI sequence set in a tunnel where Will Smith in his car is attacked by dozens of Robots & a dizzying final sequence set inside a huge computer core control room . With a supposed budget of about $120 , 000 , 000 I , Robot had the budget of a small country at it's disposable ( although Will Smith apparently got paid $28 , 000 , 000 ) so as one would expect it looks great with expensive looking CGI , big set-pieces , immaculate production design & a really clean futuristic look . Apparently Denzel Washington was offered the role of Del Spooner , luckily he either didn't accept it or he was replaced & I doubt I , Robot would be as much fun without Will Smith . The rest of the acting is alright although no-one is given much to do . I , Robot is a fun big budget blockbuster that I must admit I really liked , at the end of the day it's nothing more than good fun but what else do you want ? Thanks to a charismatic performance from Will Smith & plenty of action I say this one is well worth a watch . According to the IMDb I , Robot 2 ( 2010 ) is currently in development .
I rather like this one .	Masters of Horror : The Damed Thing starts in the small American town of Cloverdale during 1981 where the evil ' thing ' he set free a number of years earlier finds John Reddle ( Brent Stait ) & makes him kill his wife ( Georgia Craig ) & try to kill his young son Kevin ( Ryan Drescher ) before it rips him to pieces . . . Jump forward ' Twenty-Four Years Later ' & Kevin is now the Sheriff of Cloverdale & is still haunted by what he witnessed all those years ago , usually Cloverdale is a quiet place to live but all of a sudden the murder , suicide & general mortality rate has alarmingly gone through the roof as the ' thing ' that Kevin's father unleashed has come back to claim him & his family as well as anyone who gets in it's way . . . This Canadian American co-production was episode 1 from season 2 of the hit-and-miss Masters of Horror TV series , the second episode to be directed by Tobe Hooper after Dance of the Dead from season 1 I liked The Damned Thing & thought it was a hit . The script by Richard Christian Matheson was based on a short story by Ambrose Bierce & while some of it is a bit ambiguous that helps the overall mood & this one certainly delivers in the violence department . Of course it's not perfect , why didn't the damned thing just kill Kevin when it killed his father ? Why does the damned thing seem to effect people in different ways & why do some seem immune to it's presence ? I also thought there was a bit too much pointless ' personal angst ' type stuff in regards to Kevin & what happened to him . These are minor issues though as I found myself enjoying this tale of supernatural forces . I would probably say it's a touch predictable & even at less than 60 minutes in length it seemed like there was some padding here , the character's aren't great but on a pure entertainment level The Damned Thing in my opinion is one of the better Masters of Horror episodes out there . Director Hooper does OK , there's not that many scares here & there's not much tension either but if your looking for gore then this is the one for you as there's plenty of it & it's pretty graphic . There's some bloody shotgun blasting including point blank into someone's stomach , someone is literally ripped open & their guts hang out all over the place , someone has a gun put in their mouth & their brains are blown out , there's a cool bit when Kevin tries to remove a car crash victim & they have been cut in half & someone commits suicide by hitting his own head with a hammer which is accompanied by fountains of spraying blood . There's even a CGI mud monster thing at the end which is wisely used sparingly , I've seen worse CGI computer effects but at the same time I've seen better . Technically this one is well made as usual for Masters of Horror but it's maybe a bit bland & a tad forgettable . The acting is pretty good although the material is a bit silly . The Damned Thing is a good Masters of Horror episode although it's one which seems to divide opinion but I don't care because I liked it & that's all that matters to me , definitely worth a watch for horror fans & a decent way to kick off season 2 .
Entertaining heist flick .	The Split starts as career criminal Mac McClain ( Jim Brown ) arrives back in Los Angeles , there he hooks up with his ex-wife Ellie ( Diahann Carroll ) & his associate Gladys ( Julie Harris ) . Mac says he needs ' a big job ' & Gladys tells him about a plan she has to steal half a million dollars in takings from the 80 , 000 plus seater Colleseum football stadium during the match between the Los Angeles Rams & the Green Bay Packers , the match has no advance ticket sales so every seat has to be paid for in cash on the day at the gate . Mac likes the idea & sets out recruiting a gang to pull it off , the muscle is supplied by Bert Clinger ( Ernest Borgnine ) , the wheel man is Harry Kifka ( Jack Klugman ) , the weapons man & shooter is Dave Negli ( Donald Sutherland ) & the professional hi-tech thief , lock picker & safe-cracker is Marty Gough ( Warren Oates ) . Everything is prepared & the day of the heist arrives . . . Directed by Gordon Flemyng this late 60's crime heist action thriller is unfairly rather obscure but is worth the effort to track a copy down , although you can compare The Split to The Italian Job ( 1969 ) since they are both 60's heist films The Split was made & released a year before . The script by Robert Sabaroff was based on the novel ' The Seventh ' by Donald E . Westlake can be divided into three chunks , the first third of the film revolves around the recruiting of the team with some fun set-pieces to make sure each member is up to the task , the second third of the film is my favourite when they carry out the heist & there's that feeling that you root for them & you want to get away with it & all the close calls they have & watching the plan unfold is pretty fun , then the final third of the film is perhaps the weakest as several random events come together & tear the thieves apart & it becomes a rather dull runaround after the money which goes missing through no fault of their own but does obviously cause problems as they don't know who to trust . That's about it really . I would have been happy if The Split had ended after the gang had stolen the money & got away with it but there's this tacked on ending a lot of which feels very random , like how did Ellie's landlord know she had the money ? Why leave the money in such an exposed place ? Then there's the ending when everyone gets shot & it just all seems rather pointless . The plot wouldn't work now of course , what with the amount of CCTV's & security , the fact a lot of people pay by credit card & I don't understand why the gang don't try to cover their faces . They rob the place without any mask's or gloves so if the hostages don't identify them their finger prints surely would ? For such a well planned robbery that's quite a big oversight , isn't it ? Director Flemyng does a good job , he keeps the film moving along & it always feels like something is happening . The character's are also very good with each member of the gang having a distinct personality & getting at least a few minutes screen time to develop it although McClain is hard to like as the lead character since he only seems interested in serving himself . The Split was apparently the first film to be given an ' R ' rating by the MPAA thanks to some fun fights , a few shoot-outs , a bit of mild bad language ( although the ' N ' word is used here in a casual fashion , something unthinkable these days especially when the IMDb flags it as a ' Prohibited Word ' as I have just found out . . . ) & a bit of blood . There's also a neat car chase here as well . It's somewhat surprising that The Split is such an obscure film with it's crowd pleasing heist plot & the top drawer cast but it is , last night I saw a full widescreen 2 : 35 : 1 Panavision print of this & while the colours were a bit washed out & a bit pastel it looked very nice . Technically the film is very good , it has good production values , good stunt work & nice cinematography . The one aspect of The Split I don't like is the music , it's horrible & dates the film more than anything else in it . Damn , just look at that cast . There aren't many films that boast a cast as good as The Split . Jim Brown , Ernest Borgnine , Julie Harris , Warren Oates , the peerless Jack Klugman , Donald Sutherland & Gene Hackman . The acting is top notch from one of the best cast of character actors your ever likely to see in the same film . The Split is a good heist film that starts out like The Italian Job but goes in a significantly darker direction although not to the films overall benefit in my opinion . I liked it as a one time watch & the cast are great but I am not sure I would want to see it again anytime soon .
Good fun if a little silly .	The Abominable Dr . Phibes is set in London during 1925 where Scotland Yard's finest Inspector Trout ( Peter Jeffrey ) is investigating the mysterious death's of several doctors in strange & gruesome ways . Inspector Trout soon realises that the common link between the doctors is a young woman named Victoria Phibes ( Caroline Munro , uncredited ) who died during an operation , other doctor's were involved in the operation & they too are being killed off one-by-one . The prime suspect is Victoria's husband the musician Dr . Anton Phibes ( Vincent Price ) but he supposedly died in a car accident , or did he . . . ? This British American co-production was directed by Robert Fuest & is a surprisingly good horror comedy if your in the mood for something light . The script by James Whiton & William Goldstein certainly doesn't take itself too seriously & in actual fact is deliberately camp & silly . To it's credit it moves along like a rocket , there's a satisfyingly high body count with some extremely silly but original methods used to kill off it's victims & despite not exactly being the most deep or meaningful film ever made it's good camp horror entertainment that works surprisingly well . I must admit I liked the somewhat downbeat ending too . The character's are dumb & not really developed that much , the dialogue isn't great & Price barely says a word in it , in fact for the first 70 odd minutes he only says about three lines . I don't understand who the woman helping him was either , she is given the name Vulnavis about 10 minutes before the film ends & that's all we ever learn about her . There is never any explanation given as to why Phibes kills people using Egyptian plagues as his inspiration ( in the sense that I know why he's killing people because of his wife but why is he killing in the style of Egyptian plagues ) , not that it matter a great deal though . Some of the jokes work while other's miss the target by a fair amount , this is probably one of those films that will either work for you or won't . I can't see there being too many people sitting on the fence here . Overall I thought it was really good , fast paced ghoulish fun but then that's just my opinion for what it's worth . Director Fuest does alright , the art deco sets & period design look very nice & are pretty impressive but some of the direction leaves a little to be desired . For instance Fuest can't inject any sort of menace or threat into scenes with extremely docile animals , the sequence where Phibes drips a green goo over a nurse without her noticing or waking up & then covers her head in locusts which then presumably eat the skin from her face as the next time we see her there just a skull . Well besides the fact locusts don't eat flesh all they do is just sort of sit there & the whole thing is just so silly , a similar things happens with some rats which just literally sit in a guys lap & he has to scream & convince us that he's scared of these things which are not doing anything to him at all ! It doesn't work & if the film had a more serious tone in general then these scenes would kill it dead . It's not scary neither is it gory although Phibes takes his mask off at the end to reveal a hideously burned face in a decent bit of special make-up effects work . Technically the film is good , it has strong production values & is well made . Filmed in Elstree Studios & on location in England . The acting is alright , Price doesn't get to do or say much & when he does speak it's through an electronic thing on his neck so he never moves his lips . Terry-Thomas has a small role as a doctor . The Abominable Dr . Phibes is a rather good film actually , I wasn't expecting too much but it turned out to be a rather fun & entertaining way to pass 90 odd minutes & it deserves some credit for that if nothing else , right ? I liked it , I'm sure horror fans will but I could also see many not liking it . Followed by the sequel Dr . Phibes Rises Again ( 1972 ) .
Great Hollywood action flick .	Swordfish starts as Texan oil field worker Stanley Jobson ( Hugh Jackman ) is approached by a woman named Ginger Knowles ( Halle Berry ) , Stanley was once the greatest computer hacker in the world & despite not touching a computer keyboard in nearly two years he still is . Ginger offers Stanley $100 , 000 to speak with her employer , a shadowy man named Gabriel Shear ( John Travolta ) who lives in Los Angeles . Gabriel offers Stanley ten million dollars if he can crack an encrypted Governmnet bank account in which there is fifteen billion dollars of seized drug money , ten million dollars is a hell of a carrot & Stanley eventually agrees but as the bullets start to fly he realises that he finds himself in a dangerous situation that will either get him killed or sent to prison . . . This American Australian co-production was directed by Dominic Sena & is a cracking big budget Hollywood action flick that I freely admit I enjoyed a fair bit . The script by co-producer Skip Woods has it's good & bad points , first the good . It has a good pace & never gets boring , it has lots of stand out spectacular action set-pieces that are silly & very improbable but at the same time highly exciting , satisfying & over-the-top , the character's are reasonable & I liked the motives behind Gabriel's heist . It wasn't quite as clear cut as in many films , it's not quite as black and white as I am sure many might share his sentiments that when terrorists strike we should retaliate with even more extreme actions . His logic of ' if they kill one American tourist we kill one of their entire villages ' has a certain something to it , while it's undoubtedly not the right thing to think or say deep down inside many of us I suspect we have all had such thoughts & ideas especially after some of the truly horrendous terrorist acts committed against Western society . I liked the end too , I liked the way Gabriel basically got away with it & again most Hollywood films surely would have had the hero kill the bad guy in a very traditional climactic fight sort of way . Now the bad . I thought most of the character's were one dimensional & the ever awful Halle Berry's in it but my biggest gripe with Swordfish is a lot of exposition surrounding the plot was unfathomable to me . I don't consider myself computer illiterate at all but some of the terminology used just went straight over my head , for example terms like Hydra's , dropping bombs through the back door , worms , 128 bit encryption's & the like just didn't click with me . It had the unwanted effect of pulling me out of the film & left me feeling somewhat detached from it . During these bits I just didn't really know what was being said or understand it , unless your a computer genius I doubt many would . Director Sena does a good job , the action scenes are suitably overblown & spectacular . From car chases to shoot outs to explosions to a bus being picked up by a helicopter & flown across Los Angeles there's plenty of high octane action to take your mind off an otherwise somewhat shallow script that tries to paper over some of the cracks with computer jargon that really doesn't mean a whole lot . Swordfish was withdrawn from cinemas in late 2001 after the Septmeber 11 terror attacks on New York & Washington & it's easy to see why with it's story based around terrorists . The violence isn't that graphic but there's still some fights & plenty of good old fashioned death . With a supposed budget of about $80 , 000 , 000 Swordfish has that big budget Hollywood polish about it & is very well made . There's some good stylish photography & plenty of macho posturing . The acting is decent from a good cast , Travolta doesn't have that much to do but he makes a good villain although I hate Helle Berry as an actress . I think she's useless but luckily her presence isn't enough to ruin the film , her semi-nude scene proves she has horrible breast's as well . Swordfish is a very enjoyable Hollywood action flick , apart from the awful Berry the cast is good & while the story is a little shallow at times the plentiful action scenes make up for it . Definitely well worth a look in my opinion .
Terrific little thriller , I liked it .	Red Eye starts in Texas where hotel receptionist Lisa Reisert ( Rachel McAdams ) is about to catch the last ' red eye ' flight back to Miami where she lives & works . While waiting for her plane Lisa meets the handsome & charming Jackson Rippner ( Cillian Murphy ) & they both seem to hit it off , then when they board the plane they discover that by a coincidence they are seated next to each other . Once the plane takes off & they are in the air Jackson reveals who he really is & that their seemingly chance meeting was not a coincidence , Jackson says that he is working for someone who wants to assassinate the homeland security secretary Charles Keefe ( Jack Scalia ) & they need her to change his rooms at the hotel where she works in Miami . Jackson tells Lisa to phone the hotel & make it happen or her father will be killed . . . Directed by Wes Craven who is perhaps better known for his horror films such as The Last House on the Left ( 1972 ) , A Nightmare on Elm Street ( 1984 ) , The Serpent and the Rainbow ( 1989 ) , The People Under the Stairs ( 1991 ) & the Scream trilogy of teen slashers a short , punchy , fast paced little thriller like Red Eye seems like a big departure from the sort of film Craven usually makes . The script by Carl Ellsworth makes for a surprisingly gripping thriller that I must admit I really enjoyed , at only 85 odd minutes in length it's a very quick moving , economical & straight to the point sort of film that focuses almost entirely on one tight , taught plot rather than go off in various directions with lots of subplots . Some may like this approach like I did while other's may not but I think it draws you into the action a lot more as it comes thick & fast without the film slowing down any & giving you a chance to relax . I really liked the plot for Red Eye , sure a film like this is always going to have one or two questionable moments in terms of plotting but what the hell , it's a film made to entertain & for me that's what it did . I really liked the two central character's , Lisa comes across as very likable while Jackson Rippner ( an obvious play on the name of the notorious Victorian serial killer Jack the Ripper ) is a suitably slimy villain with a cold ' I'm only doing my job ' type mentality . Another plus point is that I didn't think anyone behaved overly stupid here , everyone actually seemed like human beings & the films plays out in a relatively plausible fashion . I really liked this & it's one of Craven's better more recent films . Craven turns in a good solid tense , tight , taught & fast paced thriller with an attractive cast , some good action & a gripping plot . He certainly doesn't hang about & once he starts the action & tension he never lets up , far & away the most effective part of the film is when Rippner is holding Lisa hostage on the plane & once the film switches to Miami & Lisa's fathers house it does become a little bit more routine but it's still good . A special mention goes to Rachel McAdams who is absolutely gorgeous in this , I could probably watch Red Eye again just because she is in it & looks drop dead stunning . Those who see Wes Craven's name attached to Red Eye expecting a horror film should think again since there's no horror in it at all ( despite the IMDb listing ' Horror ' as Red Eye's genre ) . I am not sure about the ending , on the one hand it was nice to see the villain live for a change which goes against traditional expectation but it might have been more satisfying to see Lisa kill him in some way . DreamWorks apparently gave Red Eye an initial budget of $44 , 000 , 000 but reduced it to $25 , 000 , 000 although it's still a very well made film with glossy production values . Actually shot in Los Angeles & Florida in California . The film was supposedly written with husband & wife Sean Penn & Robin Wright Penn intended for the leads but eventually the makers opted for younger leads . As I have already said Rachel McAdams is pure eye candy & is a total babe in this & worth watching the film for on her own . Oh , & she puts in a decent performance too . Red Eye is a really fast paced taught tension filled little thriller that I enjoyed immensely , I didn't think I would enjoy it as much as I did & I am glad I decided to watch it . This definitely gets a recommendation from me & Rachel McAdams really is hot stuff in this . . .
" I'm actually a few millimetre's taller . " Either an absolute masterpiece or a boring mess , I'm not too sure which .	Dead Ringers starts in ' Toronto , Canada 1954 ' where two 9 year old identical twins named Beverly ( Jonathan Haley ) & Elliot Mantle ( Nicholas Haley ) are geeky bespectacled nerds who everyone think are weird as they conduct dissection experiments on plastic toy human anatomy kits . . . Then Dead Ringers jumps forward to ' Cambridge , Massachusettes 1967 ' where the now 23 year old Beverly & Elliot ( both superbly played by Jeremy Irons from here on in ) are brilliant medical students who win an award for the piece of medical equipment they have developed , the film then finally settles in ' Toronto , Canada 1988 ' where the Elliot brothers are both highly respected & successful gynaecologist's . Their latest patient is actress Claire Niveau ( Genevieve Bujold ) who the confident Elliot quickly beds & thereafter Elliot & his brother the withdrawn Beverly take turns with her pretending to be one person . That is until Beverly develops strong feelings for Claire who finds out what has happened through one of her friends Laura ( Shirley Douglas ) , Beverly is torn between his domineering brother & Claire . Eventually Beverly becomes addicted to drugs , his career suffers , his mental state deteriorates & becomes dangerously unstable . . . Co-written & directed by David Cronenberg Dead Ringers is an intriguing film & one which I'm in two minds over . The script by Cronenberg & Norman Snider is based on the novel Twins by Bari Wood & Jack Geasland & Dead Ringers is for the most part a deep & intellectual character study of the mental & personal breakdown of the relationship of two close twins . Anyone looking for Cronenberg's typical gore & outlandish imagery will be somewhat disappointed here with a few serious looking medical instruments , a dream sequence in which Elliot & Beverly are joined together & Beverly bites through the skin & some shots with a few drops of blood here & there plus a couple of sex scenes being just about as graphic as Dead Ringers gets . Instead Cronenberg goes for psychological horror rather than visual , the relationship between Elliot & Beverly starts normal if a little creepy & the film goes into great detail as we witness the twins drift apart & subsequently their lives falling to pieces , in fact I can't remember a single scene that doesn't feature at least one of the twins . It's quite strong stuff & will keep most people engaged & gripped although having said that at almost 2 hours it's a long film which has a slow pace & is dialogue driven , however Dead Ringers should reward those patient enough to put the effort in & watch it just don't expect lots of special effects & explosions , in fact don't expect any . You will have to concentrate though as I sometimes found it difficult to know which twin was which at certain points as they are literally identical . Technically Dead Ringers is superb , the production design is great with lots of sleek shiny surfaces & modern interiors & just look at those red surgical gowns that they wear that look like something out of a religious ceremony . The quite classical sounding music , the simple yet highly effective cinematography , the special computer effects that you won't know are there that let two Jeremy Irons appear in the same scene & Cronenberg's fantastic direction that will make you care for these character's & the situation they find themselves in add up to make Dead Ringers a first class production . The acting by Irons is brilliant , he makes this film so watchable as he is in just about every scene as either Elliot or Beverly , I was feeling sorry for both of them by the end . Basically Dead Ringers is a fantastic drama with a few scenes of typical Cronenberg that pushes it into borderline horror territory , however Dead Ringers is not for everyone as it can be very slow at times I suppose you could say not that much actually happens & I'm not sure I would want to watch it again anytime soon . Definitely worth a watch for Cronenberg fans & those with the patience . A challenging film .
Pretty decent killer doll film .	Child's Play starts as homicide cop Detective Mike Norris ( Chris Sarandon ) pursues notorious serial killer Charles Lee Ray ( Brad Dourif ) through the streets of Chicago & into a toy store where Ray realises that having been shot by Norris he is dying so he performs a Voodoo ceremony that transfers his soul into the plastic carcass of a ' Good Guy ' doll . . . Andy ( Alex Vincent ) the young son of Karen Barclay ( Catherine Hicks ) is disappointed when he doesn't get a Good Guy doll for his birthday , sensing his obvious disappointment Karen jumps at the opportunity to buy one cheap from a derelict no questions asked . At first Andy is delighted by his Good Guy who responds to the name Chucky , however Andy stats to treat Chucky a lot like a real person & when Karen's best friend Maggie ( Dinah Manoff ) dies in a mysterious accident the police become involved . The evil spirit of Ray stuck in the body of Chucky the killer Good Guy doll wants revenge . . . Directed by Tom Holland Child's Play is a pretty decent horror film , it's not the best I've ever seen but it's far from the worst . The script by Don Mancini obviously tackles the horror sub-genre of the killer toy based film but Child's Play was a rather more serious take on the them than the likes of Puppet Master ( 1989 ) & the Demonic Toys ( 1992 ) films , in fact the Child's Play series would become more & more light hearted as it went for outrageous gore coupled with black humour & lots of one-liners . Anyway , for the first half it tries to be more of a psychological horror as not much is given away & I guess the audience is not supposed to know whether there is a killer doll running around or whether it's all a figment of Andy's imagination & as such the foul-mouthed Chucky as we now know & love him doesn't make an appearance until about half way through the film . I also think the way it takes itself so seriously ( maybe a reason why the recent instalment's are better because they don't ? ) hurt it overall with some very silly scenes , the sequence when Karen drops Chucky & he runs out of the apartment in a matter of seconds for instance , I'm sorry but there's no way on Earth he could have reached the lock & opened the door let alone reach the elevator buttons so quickly without anything to stand on at least . I wasn't keen on the end either as the torso of Chucky with just one arm & one leg manages to crawl through an air vent , burst out & nearly strangle a guy , it just doesn't work as a scene & comes across as ridiculous . Having said that there is still much here to entertain , it moves along at a nice , there are some nice kills , there are a couple of decent mini action scenes including a shoot-out , a speeding runaway car & some cool explosion's , Chucky was a great horror character with bags of personality even back then & as a whole it's passes 90 odd minutes painlessly enough . Director Holland does a good job here & the film has a nice look to it . I'm not sure the film is particularly scary but it has a decent horror atmosphere to it . I was a little disappointed by the kills in Child's Play as well as the lack of them , for some bizarre reason until the recent British DVD Child's Play had always been cut over here in the UK including it's original theatrical run & as usual the extra footage is of no real significance or particularly strong & as a whole the violence & gore quota isn't that high . There are some stabbings & a few splashes of blood here & there but very little else to get excited about . I mean there's nothing here to rival or as memorable as the slit throat from Part 3 or the nails in the face & guy run over by a huge semi-truck & gorily splattered all over the road scenes from Bride of Chucky ( 1998 ) . With a very healthy sounding budget of about $9 , 000 , 000 Child's Play is very well made with good production values . The acting is good & I didn't even find the kid that annoying which is something I suppose . . . Child's Play is a good horror film I will openly agree with that no problem but I don't see it as any stonewall classic , there are too many silly moments which let the rest of the film down & it could have done with better kills . I don't think I'd watch it again anytime soon . Followed by Child's Play 2 ( 1990 ) which I haven't seen , then came Child's Play 3 ( 1991 ) which I like & thought was on a par with the original , after a 7 year hiatus came the brilliant Bride of Chucky which breathed new life into the series & following that was the more recent Seed of Chucky ( 2004 ) which I haven't got round to watching yet but I do have it in a big pile of DVD's I've brought that one day I get round to seeing . . .
Short but reasonably interesting interview , did you know Herbert Lom wore a fake nose throughout the entire film ? !	Marked by the Devil : An Interview with Michael Armstrong is a 15 minute on camera interview with the writer & director of the horror film Mark of the Devil ( 1970 ) produced by Nucleus Films & as far as I'm aware is only available on the UK DVD released by Anchor Bay . As one would expect Michael Armstrong talks about the film , first of all how he was approached through his agent & how he got the job . Armstrong says that the script he was given written by producer Adrian Hoven ( who also intended to direct ) was originally something titled ' The Witch Hunter Doctor Dracula ' which was apparently as awful as it sounds . Armstrong completely re-wrote the script & in a straight fight with Hoven who hated it won as the money men preferred Armstrong's script over Hoven's . Armstrong talks briefly about filming , the fact that there were about 7 different nationalities on set which made communication a big problem , all the sound equipment had been left behind in Munich & dodgy contracts which let actors wander off to do commercials & other films during production & just come back when they felt like it . Armstrong talks about the fights he had with producer Hoven whom was obviously difficult to work with leading to a 2 hour fight between the two over whether Udo Kier should stand up or sit down for a particular scene , he also says that Hoven went & shot the footage of himself & his children on his own & Armstrong had nothing to do with it . The alternate ending is discussed & what was supposed to happen . To round things off he talks about the censorship issues the film suffered from particularly in the UK & that infamous ' vomit bag ' that was given out in US cinemas upon it's initial release of which Armstrong has one & thinks it was a wonderful idea ! Armstrong talks openly & honestly about Mark of the Devil which helps , he obviously has both fond & not so fond memories of it . The majority of what he has to say is interesting & informative & doesn't wander off into typical back patting promo stuff . There are plenty of relevant clips from the film , various posters & video box artwork edited between his comments & as a whole Marked by the Devil : An Interview with Michael Armstrong is very worthwhile especially considering it's a free extra on a DVD . My only minor gripe is that I would have liked to hear from others involved with the production but nothings perfect I suppose . . .
" Pants down ? They pretty much fcking ass raped us . " Enjoyable third Blade film but not as good as the previous two . . .	Blade : Trinity starts in the Syrian Desert where the Vampire race have discovered the ancient resting place of Drake ( Dominic Purcell ) , or rather the original Vampire commonly known as Dracula . Meanwhile Blade ( Wesley Snipes ) is wanted by the FBI after his Vampire hunting exploits & using Whistler ( Kris Kristofferson ) they find Blade & capture him , Blade is saved from both the FBI & the Vampires by Hannibal King ( Ryan Reynolds ) & Whistler's daughter Abigail ( Jessica Biel ) who are part of a new , young breed of Vampire hunters who call themselves Nightstalkers . With Whistler gone & Dracula the most powerful Vampire ever resurrected Blade joins forces with the Nightstalkers to develop a virus which will hopefully wipe out the Vampire menace from Earth once & for all . . . Written & directed by David S . Goyer Blade : Trinity was the third & to date final film to feature the Vampire hunting Marvel comic book character Blade , while not as good as either the original Blade ( 1998 ) & the sequel Blade II ( 2002 ) this is a fine film in it's own right but it was always going to be hard to follow two class acts & as such Blade : Trinty suffers from not being as good as it's predecessors rather than just being a bad film which in my opinion it isn't . Annoyingly this is yet another film which was released theatrically & then released as a ' director's cut ' on DVD soon after which restores about ten minutes of cut footage although there's no extra gore despite being ' Unrated ' . Like the previous Blade films Goyer was on script duties & he introduces the character of Dracula , unfortunately this is one of the films weaker aspects as he is relegated to a bit part & leaves little impression with the delicious Parker Posey as Danica Talos the most memorable & interesting villain although frustratingly she isn't in it that much either . Also one has to say the story is a little simplistic & maybe isn't as involving as it should have been & the introduction of the new Nightstalker character's feels a bit forced & like the film is deliberately trying to start a franchise going that doesn't include Blade . On the positive side , of which there are many , Blade : Trinity looks fabulous , at almost two hours it doesn't feel like it & it moves along like a rocket , there are some good ideas here like the human blood bank set up by the Vampires as they literally farm the homeless for their blood , there are loads of fights , cool weaponry , good solid dialogue with some amusing one-liners & a bit of light hearted comedy as the script throws in a Vampire poodle ! Blade : Trinity is a film for lads , it provides bags of violence , good looking girls & plenty of slick action that barely lets you catch your breath . Director Goyer does a great job here & the film as a whole is so stylish it's a joy to watch , from slow motion to some cool camera angles & a stylish flashback sequence Blade : Trinity just looks fabulous . He also packs the film with wall to wall action , from a spectacular opening sequence where Blade blows a Vampire factory up & an ensuing car chase where there's a cool highly detailed slow motion shot of a car crashing into a post to dozens of brilliantly choreographed martial arts fights to shoots out & the use of all sorts of cool looking chrome plated weaponry like swords , guns , triple barrelled shotguns , bows & arrows , knives & throwing blades ( wouldn't they attract more attention walking through a street in broad daylight tooled up with bows & arrows , swords & some serious guns ? ) . The whole film looks incredibly cool & stylish with much to enjoy . I was a bit disappointed with the gore levels , there's nothing in Blade : Trinity that compares with the exploding Vampires from the original or the scene in Blade II when the Vampire hunter has half his head sliced off , there just aren't any really big crowd pleasing moments of gore that I both expected & hoped for . There's a brief decapitation & some blood splatter but very little else . With a supposed budget of $65 , 000 , 000 & opening with very lukewarm reviews & disappointing box-office returns Blade : Trinity certainly has that Hollywood gloss about it , it looks great , it sounds amazing & has coolly stylised production design that gives it a wonderful graphic novel sort of look . Shot in Vancouver , British Columbia in Canada . The acting is alright with everyone posing in very cool & stylistic ways as they kick ass , was it just me or did Wesley Snipes look a lot older in this compared to the first two films ? The wrestler Triple H makes an appearance , Jessica Biel is cute but it's Parker Posey as the sexy sadist Vampire with an attitude who steals the show & is as memorable as anything else in the film . Blade : Trinity is not as good as the previous two sterling efforts but don't let that put you off since it's a throughly entertaining , action packed & stylish action horror film in it's own right . Well worth a watch . Followed by the made-for-TV series Blade : The Series ( 2006 ) which wasn't too bad but got cancelled after only 12 episodes .
Pretty good Sci-Fi horror film from Roger Corman , you could do a lot worse .	Galaxy of Terror tells the tale of a rescue mission attempts to discover the fate of a spacecraft that landed on a planet called Morganthus & has not been heard from since . The spaceship Rebus takes off & within what seems like minutes arrives at Morganthus where they are drawn to the planet surface by an unknown force . Commander Ilvar ( Bernard Behrens ) , Captain Trantor ( Grace Zabriskie ) , the cook Kore ( Ray Walson ) & an engineer named Ranger ( Robert Englund ) remain aboard the Rebus as an exploration party is dispatched . First in command Baelon ( Zalman King ) , Cabren ( Edward Albert ) , a female telepathic Alluma ( Erin Moran ) , Dameia ( Taaffe O'Connell ) , Quuhod ( Sid Haig ) & a rookie named Cos ( Jack Blessing ) make their way to the crashed spacecraft . Inside as they discover the bodies of the previous crew Cos becomes very scared & sees a strange alien like spider creature which kills him . Back on Rebus they decide to investigate a strange area of landscape which their instruments cannot scan . Upon arrival they discover a large organic looking pyramid type alien structure , they decide to investigate . It's not long before more start to die in various gruesome ways . . . Co-written & directed by Bruce D . Clark I actually thought Galaxy of Terror was a much better film than I was expecting . The script by Clark & Marc Siegler is often referred to as an Alien ( 1979 ) rip off & while it obvious rides on the commercial success of Alien it tries to stand out a little more than a generic ' alien on the loose ' cash in , it actually has little in common with Alien besides being set in outer space . Galaxy of Terror has some nice ideas especially the pyramid which has the power to turn one's imagination & fears into one's deadliest enemy . Unfortunately more often than not director Bruce just uses this idea to kill people off in gory ways , I felt more could have been done with the idea than just use it to conjure up a few rubber monsters . One more complaint I have with Galaxy of Terror is that there are far too many pointless scenes of people walking around doing nothing in particular . The characters aren't that well developed & predictably clichéd but we know enough about each of them to get by & at least no one got on my nerves even if their silly sounding futuristic names did ! Technically Galaxy of Terror is surprisingly impressive & I'm pretty certain that has a lot to do with a young James Cameron who as the production designer works miracles on what must have been a low budget . The Morganthus landscape looks good while the alien pyramid & it's interiors look particularly impressive . I suppose the spacecraft sets look a little dated at times with the old fashioned flip switches used to operate things & some very dated looking computer graphics on it's monitors , but again given the budget their decent enough . The special optical effects less so , some look alright while others look poor although none really stand out either way except the guy with a red blur where his face should be which is accomplished with an awful super-imposed special effect . The deaths are cool & quite graphic , a slither of glass embeds itself in someone's arm & starts to travel upwards under their skin which results in them cutting their own arm off , there's plenty of alien tentacles & things sticking in people , a scene where a woman gets wrapped in blue alien vines & as they constrict she explodes , someone loses all their facial skin & the absolute showstopper of a sequence when Taaffe O'Connell is raped by a giant maggot alien creature which you have to see to believe . The cast has some familiar genre faces amongst it , Robert Englund & Sid Haig stand out . For what it is the acting is OK but nothing Oscar worthy . Generally speaking I found Galaxy of Terror a more than acceptable way to spend 80 odd minutes , it moves along at a fair pace & certainly isn't dull . Definitely worth a watch for enquiring Sci-Fi & horror fans .
Really good directorial debut from Steven Spielberg .	David Mann ( Dennis Weaver ) is a salesman travelling across the long twisting almost totally deserted Californian desert highways on his way to an important meeting in his 1970 red Plymouth Valiant . He becomes stuck behind a large dirty and noisy tanker truck . After a bit of not too serious silliness , honking horns , trying to overtake each other and some slightly aggressive driving things turn very ugly . The truck driver ( Carey Loftin as Cary Loftin ) seems to become intent on pursuing David and harassing him , possibly even trying to kill him . David manages to stop at Chuck's Cafe a road-side café . The truck carries on and drives out of sight . David seeks help from the owner Chuck ( Eddie Firestone ) . While trying to gain his composure and sort his thoughts out David looks out of the window and sees the truck parked outside , it has come back for him to finish the job . What does the truck driver want ? Will David be able to loose him ? Watch it and find out ! This was the directorial debut from Steven Spielberg , and a fine film it is too . I should point out at this point that I am reviewing the original 74 minute cut , rather than the longer 90 minute one . I'm not sure how the long version runs , but the shorter one moves along at a nice pace and is just about right in length . There is only so much footage of a truck and car driving along a road that you can sit through and find interesting ! There is basically only one character in the entire film , and that's David as the truck driver is never seen and his motives are never known . Everyone else is in it for a very short amount of time and are just people David meets along the way . The script by Richard Matheson never reveals the truck drivers identity or motives and I actually liked it that way , it sort of feels like your David more as he doesn't know the Truck drivers motives either . But on the other hand it also felt like you weren't rewarded for watching the film as nothing is made clear or explained . Overall , I would say that I probably just about liked it as it is , without revealing anything . Weaver is excellent as David , he has a few monologues during the film to keep the viewer clued into what his state of mind is and how he is thinking that work very well and somewhat compensates for the lack of other characters with which David could interact with . There are no other actors to comment on really . The truck itself makes for a menacing villain and it had a great ominous on-screen presence , it was always there constantly chasing David as it seemed the truck just wouldn't give up it's relentless pursuit . I loved the harsh sounds it made , it's roaring engine and when it revs up , I'm sure this was what Spielberg intended and it worked well as far as I'm concerned . The photography is simple yet clear bright and functional , it looks fine . I really liked it and it kept me pretty much gripped right through to the end , but as I said there is only so much footage of two vehicles driving along a stretch of road that will keep me entertained and I was getting a little tired of it by the end but just as slight boredom started to kick in it finished , according to the IMDb's ' alternate versions ' section the long version has a different ending , the one I saw felt almost unfinished but quite realistic when I think about it . I've never seen the 90 minute version but I'm sure the 74 minute one is a tighter and better flowing film that doesn't outstay it's welcome . As far as the short version goes I wholeheartedly recommend it . A great debut film from Spielberg .
Enjoyable warning against technology .	Westworld is set in a futuristic world where a company called Delos offers a unique holiday experience to it's customers , three recreated worlds including Westworld , Romanworld & Medievalworld which are populated by robots programmed to interact with guest's fantasies & provide an authentic feel . Peter Martin ( Richard Benjamin ) & John Blane ( James Brolin ) are paying $1000 a day to stay in Westworld & experience the American Wild West of the 1880's complete with gunslingers , whores & bar-fights . However behind the scenes all is not well at the resort , the robots are starting to develop an alarming numbers of malfunctions & faults & start to act on their own unable to be controlled . Then suddenly all the robots go crazy & start attacking the human guest's killing them one-by-one , John is gunned down by a robotic gunslinger ( Yul Brynner ) & it then sets it's sights on Peter & purses him relentlessly trying to kill him . . . Written & directed by Michael Crichton this is a terrific Sci-Fi themed futuristic thriller that I enjoyed a lot . I thought the plot for Westworld was rather clever & quite ingenious , at the time it was made during the early 70's there hadn't been another film like it & I love the ideas here . From the hi-tech theme park that uses robots ( not too far from what currently exists ) to the idea that you can take a holiday in a specific period of history that would just be so God damned cool & the old American Wild West would probably be high on most people's list . At less than 90 minutes in length the film moves along like a rocket , there's just enough exposition to get to know the character's & flesh them out but not enough to bog it down , the film has plenty of incident & has a nice tense , taught plot & pacing . I suppose the one main plot-hole that is never explained is how the robots get the six shooter guns to fire at people when it's clearly stated at the start the weapons are rigged not to but that's a moot point . There's the whole moral warning against technology & putting too much trust & power in machines without enough safeguards which is as relevant now as ever I suppose so in that respect Westworld hasn't dated too badly at all . The film looks a dated at times , some of the computers with banks of flashing lights look very 70's as do some of the clothes & hairstyles . The sequences where the robots are repaired actually seems to take place in some robot hospital with human doctors in surgical gear operating on them like real people on beds rather than in a workshop , it's quite a striking image actually & these scenes are quite unnerving too . Yul Brynner was cast as the bad & turns a pretty cold & intense performance wearing the same outfit his character wore in The Magnificent Seven ( 1960 ) . According to the IMDb Westworld was the first ever film to use CGI , for the scenes of the robotic Yul Brynner's point of view which apparently took eight hours per ten seconds of footage ! Shot on a lowly $1 , 250 , 000 budget Westworld was a big success when released & it still looks very good even now with high production values & a good cast . Apparently to keep the budget down the Wild West scenes were filmed on the studio back-lot on sets already there . The acting is good from all involved . Westworld is a great futuristic thriller that I enjoyed a lot & would recommend it , it hasn't dated badly & the story is still very good . Followed by the sequel Futureworld ( 1976 ) for which Yul Brynner returned & subsequently became his last film while a short-lived TV series Beyond Westworld ( 1980 ) ran for five or six episodes .
Well put together 80's horror with a message .	Brain Damage is set in New York City where Brian ( Rick Hearst ) lives in an apartment with his brother Mike ( Gordon MacDonald ) , one night Brian wakes up & feels somewhat lightheaded & ill . Brian decides to to go back to sleep but when he awakes he finds blood on his pillow & a strange talking slug like brain eating parasitic creature called Aylmer who has injected some blue liquid into the back of Brian's neck & into his brain which makes him high , at first Brian enjoys the euphoric high but Alymer uses Brian in his drugged out high state to find him human victims whose brains it can eat . Brian becomes addicted to the high Alymer gives him but at the same time realises the terrible side-effects that threaten to destroy his life & kill those who Brain are closest to including Barbara ( Jennifer Lowry ) his girlfriend unless he can somehow regain control of his life & mind . . . Co-edited , written & directed by Frank Henenlotter this was his belated second directorial feature film after the cult hit success of the memorable low budget gory horror film Basket Case ( 1982 ) & it's clear to see that Henenlotter set out to make a low budget exploitation horror film with a strong central message about the perils of drug abuse & addiction . The entire film is more or less a warning against drugs , the film is filled with parallels & metaphors like the initial high before the uncontrollable craving for the next hit when it wears off , the user whose life falls apart around themselves because of their addiction , the people around the user who also suffer because of it & the determination to get another fix no matter what that becomes paramount to the exclusion of just about everything else . You might think that sounds rather heavy handed & a bit too deep but Brain Damage works surprisingly well on a number of levels , from a gross out splatter film with some good gore scenes to anti drug film as the script is set-up so we end up sympathising with Brian & the attempts to mirror the obviously fantastical goings-on in the film with real life drug abuse & addiction comes off rather well . The pace is good , the character's & dialogue are as well although the ending is rather sudden & abrupt . An off-beat , unusual 80's horror film with a strong social message , who'd have thought it ? Director Henenlotter throw's in a cheeky little reference to his previous film Basket Case as while on a subway train Brian sees a man carry a wicker basket with a lock on it , obviously the lead character Duane from Basket Case & to give it a bit more authenticity the original actor Kevin Van Hentenryck reprises the role in a small cameo . Aymer the parasite looks like a large slug with a face & funny posh sounding voice , despite this the image actually works in a bizarrely funny sort of way . The special effects are alright , there's some stop-motion animation & simple puppet shots which are probably still better than any modern low budget CGI computer effect . There are some neat sequences here including the infamous scene in which a woman goes down on Brian to give him a blow-job only to open his flies & have Aylmer shoot out & eat her brains through her mouth so the side-on view looks like she is give Brian a blow-job who has a horrible slimy mutant deformed penis , a nice if somewhat crude little visual gag & one of the films most memorable moments . There's some decent gore here too , there are some brain eating scenes , some blood splatter , there's pulsating brains & foreheads & a dream sequence in which someone pulls some stringy bloody stuff out of their ear before it falls off & a spray of blood spurts out . There's a sex scene & a bit of nudity as well but nothing that graphic . The production values are pretty good & the film is well made , it's certainly a lot more professional & polished than Basket Case ever was . The acting is pretty good from a fairly unknown cast , TV horror host John Zacherle provided the voice of Aylmer uncredited . Brain Damage is an unusual & somewhat oddball little late 80's exploitation horror film that works surprisingly well although probably isn't for everyone . Well worth a look if your a fan of the genre or are after something that bit different .
A great five story horror anthology from Amicus .	Another horror anthology from Amicus who were well known for films of this type , Dr terrors house of horrors , from beyond the grave , asylum , torture garden , the house that dripped blood and tales from the crypt being the others . The film starts with the camera gliding across the London skyline , including a long shot of the houses of parliament just so you know we're in London , finally resting on a large office building . In the building a man enters a lift , as the lift descends to the lower floors it stops a further four times , each time another man entering . However , the lift fails to stop at the lobby and carries on down to small room with a table in the middle surrounded by five chairs , one for each man . They decide to wait , as they do so they tell each other stories of their recurring nightmares . First up its ' midnight mess ' with Daniel Massey . He plays a man who hires someone to track his sister down , played by Anna Massey . She is found in a small town , he visits her so he can claim an inheritance all for himself . The residents of the town and his sister aren't quite what they first seem , however . A good segment , very enjoyable . Then it's Terry Thomas and Glynis Johns in ' A neat job ' . Thomas recounts the story of how he drives his newly wed wife to take out a gruesome revenge on him . Another good story , it build up very well , and I liked the very appropriate twist ending . The third story , ' This trick'll kill you ' , sees Curt Jurgens and Dawn Adams as a magician and his wife who , while visiting India , try to steal a magic trick for their act . But things don't quite go as they had planned . In my opinion this is the weakest story , a bit dull and predictable and there's no real twist involved . Poor . The fourth story entitled ' Bargain in death ' , has Micheal Craig as a broke writer , in a nice touch by the filmmakers at one point he says " there's no money in horror " . Maybe the filmmakers are trying to tell us something ! And in another nice touch in this segment , he settles down to read a book , as the camera zooms in the book happens to be the novelization of a previous Amicus horror anthology tales from the crypt ! A great moment for fans . He sets his own death up to try and collect the insurance money , with the help of a friend , Edward Judd . Once again things end up far from what he had planned . This story relies on a lot of silly co-incidences and for you to forget about any sort of logic . It also lacks any real horror elements , being nothing more than a short tale of crime , mystery and double cross . Average . The fifth and final story stars Tom Baker , Denholm Elliott , and Terence Alexander . Baker plays an artist who is lied to by art critics , and gallery owners about his paintings , and make huge profits by selling them . He uses voodoo to take a horrible revenge . Another great story , maybe the best . Good fun . Directed by Roy Ward Baker this is a great little anthology film . A fine score by Douglas Gamley and pretty good performances by the all star cast help . There's not much violence in it , but whats there adds to the film and isn't just there to be gratuitous . Try and get hold of the uncut version , as the cuts listed in the ' alternate versions ' section on the IMDb would really hurt the final twists of one or two of the segments . An enjoyable horror film , well worth a watch .
I really liked it , pretty much on equal par with the original as far as I'm concerned .	The Hitcher starts as Jim Halsey ( Zachary Knighton ) picks his girlfriend Grace Andrews ( Sophia Bush ) up outside her home , having just broke up for spring break they plan to head across New Mexico to stay with friends . En-route they decide not to pick up hitchhiker John Ryder ( Sean Bean ) , later on that night they meet Ryder again at a gas station when he gets dropped off by someone who did give him a lift . Ryder ask's Jim if he can hitch a ride with him & Grace , feeling a bit guilty & awkward Jim reluctantly agrees . While driving along Ryder pulls a knife on Jim & Grace , in a struggle they manage to throw him out of the car & drive off into the distance thinking they had a lucky escape . However it's just the beginning of Jim & Grace's nightmare as the psycho hitchhiker from hell follows them leaving a trail of dead bodies behind him as he terrorises them & anyone else he comes across . . . Directed by Dave Meyers I will openly admit right here & now that I throughly , totally & utterly enjoyed every minute of The Hitcher . A remake of the original The Hitcher ( 1986 ) this is one of a recent spate of classic horror film remakes to come out of Hollywood including The Texas Chainsaw Massacre ( 2003 ) , The Fog ( 2005 ) , The Hills Have Eyes ( 2006 ) , Black Christmas ( 2006 ) & Halloween ( 2007 ) & I have to say I've enjoyed most of them , certainly more than most of their bad reputations would suggest . Here the fast moving & incident filled script by Jake Wade Wall , Eric Bernt & Eric Red who also wrote the original ' 86 version is a fairly faithful retelling of the original & follows more or less the same story & same events which lead up to virtually the same climax . The biggest difference here is that this Hollywood remake features two young American teens in the lead roles whereas in the original C . Thomas Howell was travelling solo & picked up Jennifer Jason Leigh in a roadside diner , other than though the two films are very similar & if you have seen the original then nothing in this remake will come as much of a surprise . Whether you agree with the principal of remaking films & while this isn't as close as Gus Van Sant's Phycho ( 1998 ) remake was to Hitchcock's ' 60 original if you take The Hitcher ' 07 as a nice mix of action , thriller & horror then it's a great flick , I apologise to no-one for saying this & I'm aware of the ' this is the worst film ever ' comments which every film on the IMDb suffers from but from a personal point of view I thought The Hitcher was great & it's as simple & straight forward as that . Director Meyers does a great job , there are lots of wide shots of the vast desert locations which gives a real feel of perspective , scale & isolation . Surprisingly there are a few really neat & effective ' jump out of your seat ' scare moments . He uses the 2 : 35 : 1 frame very well & if you do watch this make sure it's the widescreen version . There are many scenes & nods to the original ' 86 version , the bit where the dog licks the blood from the dead cop , the shots of helicopters suddenly appearing from behind the horizon , the car chase , the scene with someone tied between two trucks , the rainy night & Ryder pushing the tip of his knife against someones eye to various lines of dialogue which those who have seen the original will find very familiar . This ' 07 remake is more flashy & Hollywood in style with some impressive aerial shots , slick & elaborate camera set-ups & a more polished look . This is maybe one area where the original ' 86 version has the edge since it's more gritty looking & even though I enjoyed watching this ' 07 version you can't but help remember that your watching a film . Some of the car chases & stunt work is impressive with cars flipping , spinning & being wrecked in various spectacular ways . There's not much CGI computer effects work in this until the end when it does tend to become noticeable & a bit distracting . There's some good gore here , a rabbit gets squished under a car , there's lots of gory blood splattering gun-shot wounds , someone is ripped in half & there's a terrific slashed throat . Technically the film has high production values & is slickly made & put together . Shot on location in Texas & New Mexico . The acting varies , I liked Sean Bean because he's a good actor , I liked Sophia Bush because she was a babe although I thought Zachary Knighton was pretty poor & the main weak link here . The Hitcher is a great film , at only 80 minutes it moves along like a rocket , there's good action & gore scenes & Sophia Bush is a joy to look at thanks to her natural assets . What more can I say ? I thought it was great , period . If you don't agree with me or have a problem with that sue me !
" You can't turn me on & off like a damn switch ! You make me sick ! " Really bad but really entertaining .	Crucible of Terror starts in a old tin mine forge , an unknown assailant prepares a plaster cast mixture & spreads it over the naked body of Chi-San ( Me Me Lai ) to form a perfect cast of her body & then the unknown psycho pours white hot molten metal into a hole in the cast . . . Jump to London where art dealer Jack Davies ( James Bolam ) is holding an exhibit trying to impress the main investors George ( Kenneth Keeling ) & his wife Joanna ( Melissa Stribling ) as well as trying to sell some of his items . Things don't go so well but one item in particular seems to generate a certain amount of interest , a bronzed sculpture of a Chinese woman by an artist named Victor Clare ( Mike Raven ) supplied by his alcoholic son Michael ( Ronald Lacey ) . Jack ask's Michael if he can supply more of his father's work , Michael says no but he is welcome to talk to his father personally . Jack his wife Millie ( Mary Maude ) , Michael & his wife Jane ( Beth Morris ) all decide to go together & make a weekend out of it . Once there things take a turn for the worse , Victor is stark raving mad as is his wife Dorothy ( Betty Alberge ) & that night someone brutally stabs Jane to death . . . This English production was co-written & directed by Ted Hooker & I found it so bad that it was just so entertaining & funny . The script by Hooker & Tom Parkinson moves along at a nice pace , is never boring or dull & is just so bizarre & funny that I couldn't help but like it . Some of the dialogue in Crucible of Terror is pure gold , " the only spirits you believe in are brown & poured out of a bottle " for instance after two character's discuss a haunted tin mine . There are loads more as well . I also thought the murder mystery elements were cool , I mean you think you have the killer & their motives nailed down but then the twist ending just comes out of nowhere & turns everything on it's head . I just love the silliness of it all . What's up with Victor's wife ? I mean she's probably in her 50's yet she dresses like a little girl , has pig tails plus she talks to & plays with cuddly toys & dolls ! It's never given any sort of satisfactory explanation as to why she is like this but hey , who cares when it's this strange & entertaining . One of the character's commits suicide for no apparent reason & is never explained why . I have no idea why but I liked all the zaniness , idiocy & eccentricity in Crucible of Terror . Director Hooker keeps the film moving , however his red-herrings & throwaway lines make little sense overall . I'm a big fan of 70's British horror & I love the look throughout Crucible of Terror from the clothes & locations to the cars & interior design with some horrible garish wallpaper ! Even the obviously fake mine shafts add a certain feel . I could have used a bit more in the way of violence & gore as well , there is a stabbing , someone has their head bashed in with a rock , some acid thrown on someone's face & a couple of slit wrists , a bit too dry for my liking . With a budget that probably was pretty low Crucible of Terror is generally well made in & around some nice British coastal seaside locations . The best way to describe the acting is over-the-top , Raven used to be a Radio 1 DJ ( anyone from the UK will know what I'm talking about ) & Bolam is more widely known for his role in the successful British TV sitcom ' The Likely Lads ' & it's various follow ups & spin offs . I must admit I wasn't expecting to but I really rather enjoyed Crucible of Terror , it kept me entertained for 90 odd minutes & that's all I could really ask for . I definitely can't recommend it to anyone as I think you need to be of a certain disposition to get anything from it , far from what one would call a good film but a highly entertaining & fun one none the less & how can you not like a film where someone is murdered using a 70's novelty see-thru plastic cushion !
" Lets just say I'm a freelance solution to some of our Governments problems . " Enjoyable mix of horror , Sci-Fi & female toplessness . . .	Species starts at ' U . S . Government Laboratories Dugway , Utah ' where a young girl named Sil ( Michelle Williams ) has been created by altering human DNA by Dr . Xavier Fitch ( Ben Kingsley ) & his team who are using a blueprint in a message sent by extra-terrestrial life from outer space . The decision has been made to terminate the experiment , that means Sil has to be killed which is an idea she isn't keen on so breaks out of the lab & disappear into the darkness of the night . Sil manges to make it to Los Angeles by train having now reached adulthood ( Natasha Henstridge ) where she becomes intent on completing her life cycle by reproducing & having a baby . Fitch assembles a team to find & kill Sil , a professional hit-man called Preston Lennox ( Michael Madsen ) , a molecular biologist named Dr . Laura Baker ( Marg Helgenberger ) , Dan Smithson ( Forest Whitaker ) an empath & finally Dr . Stephen Arden ( Alfred Molina ) . Together they trace Sil to Los Angeles where they must find & stop Sil before she mates & infects the human race with the strain of deadly alien DNA . . . Directed by Roger Donaldson I thought Species was a good solid horror Sci-Fi film . Why does the IMDb list Species main genre as drama ? Horror is the last one it lists when it should be the first . The script by Dennis Feldman moves along at a fair pace although I must admit my interest started to wain towards the end & there are some gaping plot holes that annoyed me . For instance why is it so hard for Sil to have sex ? I'd have thought having the looks of Natasha Henstridge would mean she could have sex morning , noon & night if she wanted ! I don't know about Los Angeles but where I live we'd be queueing up round the block ! Also when she knows that Fitch & his team are after her why does she deliberately seek them out , even after she has faked her own death ? Why attract the attention of the only people on Earth who know who she is & want to kill her ? On a positive note Species provides good entertainment & Natasha Henstridge naked , what more do you want ? With an estimated budget of $35 , 000 , 000 director Donaldson does an OK job but fails to create much tension or atmosphere , Species looks & feels rather bland & forgettable throughout . A sequence when Lennox & Baker are trapped in a isolation chamber with some mutant alien DNA falls particularly flat & is distinctly ineffective . The special effects are a mixed bag , some of the CGI Sil alien effects at the end are poor by todays high standards although the special make-up & creature effects look better . The alien Sil was designed by H . R . Giger complete with exaggerated red nipples one of which shoots out & acts like a tentacle isn't exactly a million miles away from the look of the alien from Alien ( 1979 ) which Giger also designed . There is some violence & gore here as Sil leaves behind a steady supply of bodies , a ripped out spine , tentacles bursting through the back of peoples heads & a chopped off thumb . The acting is OK by all involved although Kingsley isn't given that much to do , Madsen makes for a likable hero . The sequel Species II ( 1998 ) came three years after this & in my humble opinion is better . Species is definitely worth watching although I think it plays a little longish at times & I doubt I'll be sitting through it again anytime soon .
" Sin may be caught as easily as the plague . " Controversial mix of sex , violence & religion .	The Devils is set in France during 1634 in a walled protestant town called Loudun which has just reached a truce with the rest of a mainly catholic France , the town is run by Father Urbain Grandier ( Oliver Reed ) an adulterous God loving man . However the power hungry Cardinal Richelieu ( Christopher Logue ) wants the catholic church to seize complete control of France & orders the destruction of Loudun , Father Grandier knows King Louis XIII ( Graham Armitage ) would not have sanctioned it & manages to stop the destruction . Cardinal Richelieu sees this as a temporary set back since he cannot convince King Louis to allow it , Richelieu sends in magistrate Baron Laubardemont ( Dudley Sutton ) & extremist Father Barre ( Michael Gothard ) to discredit Grandier & see that the destruction of Loudun can continue . . . This British production was written , produced & directed by Ken Russell & is certainly a memorable way to spend a couple of hours . The script was apparently based upon a play by John Whiting & the novel ' The Devils of Loudon ' by Aldous Huxley & claims to be based on truth . To be honest I am not a religious person & I openly & freely admit I haven't even read the bible so I cannot express any personal opinion about how The Devils relates to anything in either a good or bad way in the bible or religion in general . What I can express an opinion about though is whether The Devils is a good film or not & I firmly believe it is for those with loose enough sensibilities , it's a powerful film that maybe has some truth behind it , it paints a somewhat unflattering picture of the Church & the abuse of the power it had during the 17th Century over God fearing people , a power which it brutally exploited to it's own ends according to The Devils . From torture to false confessions to sexual deviancy The Devils isn't dull that's for sure , whether or not you will enjoy it depends on your tolerance levels for such material which deliberately mixes sex , religion & violence in a provocative way . I think it's a good film with strong character's , a good solid plot which you have to concentrate on to follow & some poetic dialogue . It's a bit slow in places & some of it is a little over-the-top but that adds to the entertainment value . Director Russell does a great job & The Devils looks simply sumptuous with brilliant sets including the white tiled Loudun which gives the film a clean sort of feel & an unusual look . The costumes are detailed as is the period setting in general . The film oozes style & visual flair with some beautiful yet at the same time disturbing scenes featuring naked Nun's , torture , religious fanaticism & sex set against the impressively realised backdrop of 17th Century France . The Devils has become controversial because of it's mix of sex , violence & religion & while there are a few graphic scenes this probably shocked more back in 1971 than does in 2007 . There is a fair amount of nudity but only one tame sex scene , while most of the female cast get their clothes off there is no male nudity , there are a couple of off screen enemas , there's a couple of torture scenes involving someones legs being broken & a pin stuck through someones tongue , there is implied masturbation , someone is agonisingly burned at the stake , victims of the plague are seen dumped into huge pits that contains 100's of bodies & a scenes when a sick woman has wasp's in jars attached to her body as a ' cure ' . I personally didn't think it was quite as shocking as it's generally made out to be . Technically the film is top notch with fine cinematography , high production values & good music . Set in France The Devils was actually shot at Pinewood Studios here in England . The acting is very strong here with a career best from Oliver Reed , he certainly though it was his best performance . The Devils has a big reputation to live up & while I think it can't quite manage it it's still a challenging film which deals with issues many may not agree with or want to watch . I liked it for what it is but then I'm not religious in any way so it didn't offend me in the way it might other's . A strong film & worth watching for those with the stomach .
Decent Tales of the Unexpected episode .	Tales of the Unexpected : A Dip in the Pool is set aboard a cruise ship called the Atlantic Voyger where they hold a daily auction in which the Captain works out how many miles he thinks the ship will travel in 24 hours & people bid on that number , a number within 10 either side of it or a ' higher ' & ' lower field ' bet which goes beyond any of the other other numbers either higher or lower . A passenger named William Botibol ( Jack Weston ) is convinced that the Captain didn't take into account the huge storm they have run into & thinks that it will significantly slow the ship down so he bids everything he has on the lower field in an attempt to win the £14 , 000 pot , unfortunately the storm ends rather prematurely & the ship is able to make a huge amount of ground up unless William can slow it's progress of course . . . This Tales of the Unexpected story was episode 8 from season 1 & originally aired here in the UK during May 1979 , the second of two tales of the Unexpected episodes to be directed by Michael Tuchner this is one of the better stories from this show . The story by Roald Dahl was dramatised by Ronald Harwood & this wasn't the first time this story had been adapted into a story for an anthology TV series coming after Danger : A Dip in the Pool ( 1954 ) , during his introduction Dahl states that he is / was a gambler & once bet that his wife would give birth to twins & then moments later bet that he would loose his original wager ! Anyway , this story has the unique Dahl quirkiness about it , in both the set up & the effective twist ending which actually works very well for a change . The character's are alright although at only 25 odd minutes in length it's difficult to develop them , overall I'd say this is one of the better episodes from this usually average & somewhat forgettable show . Obviously shot entirely on 35mm film & on-board an actual cruise ship this one looks pretty good , it hasn't dated too badly & it's generally well made . The acting is OK & as always I'm impressed with the Brit casts in these things . A Dip in the Pool is a decent little tale with a twist , it's nothing spectacular but it makes for a perfectly watchable 25 minutes , at least worth a watch if nothing else .
Good tale of the unexpected .	Tales of the Unexpected : Back for Christmas starts during a farewell party given by James ( Richard Johnson ) & Hermione Carpenter ( Sian Phillips ) for their friends mere hours before James & Hermione fly off to America where botanist James has a new job . However the womanising James has plans that don't include Hermione & decides to kill her , after the deed is done he cuts the body up & buries it . It's a perfect plan that surely can't go wrong , can it ? Episode 14 from season 2 this Tales of the Unexpected story originally aired here in the UK during May 1980 , the second of five Tales of the Unexpected episodes to be directed by Giles Foster I thought this was a great 25 minute thriller with a twist . The story by John Collier had already been adapted for the anthology TV series Alfred Hitchcock Presents ( 1956 ) before it was dramatised by Denis Cannan for this show , this has everything a good Tales of the Unexpected episode should have including a nice build up , decent character's & most importantly an intriguing story with a surprising twist at the end . I liked the ironic ending especially as before he killed her James wife started in motion events which would uncover his crime which just felt right in a what goes around comes around sort of way . At only 25 minutes in length it moves along at a nice pace & is a neat way to pass the time . During his filmed introduction Dahl doesn't actually mention the story & only that the guy who came up with the story also wrote a book about a chimpanzee who fell in love with & married a teacher ! Not that it has any relevance to the story at hand but there you go . Unusually for this show there's a bit of blood on show here as James cuts his wife's body up although there is no graphic gore . This one hasn't dated too badly but just look at those seats on the air-plane , they look like they are covered in hideous 70's shag-pile patterned carpet ! The acting is good & I always like watching Richard Johnson ( this was his first out of three appearances on Tales of the Unexpected ) & whenever I see him I can't help but think about his roles in the Italian gore films Zombie Flesh Eaters ( 1979 ) , The Great Alligator ( 1979 ) & Island of Mutations ( 1979 ) all of which he made in ' 79 & stand out like a sore thumb against the rest of his career which spans over 60 years . Back for Christmas is a great Tales of the Unexpected episode from a very strong season 2 , I liked it , fans of the show should like it & anyone looking for a crime thriller with a twist should like it .
" There's no such thing as a lovely way to go . " Good Tales of the Unexpected episode .	Tales of the Unexpected : A Sad Loss is set in the sunny climes of the Caribbean where lovers Dave Brigham ( Stuart Wilson ) & Claire Hawksworth ( Haley Mills ) run a not very successful hotel . They are mortgaged up to their eyeballs & are months behind on the repayments & risk losing the hotel , however Claire's rich aunt Alicia ( Lally Bowers ) has promised to leave all her money to them when she dies so there is some light at the end of the tunnel . Unfortunately it seems Alicia's daughter has given birth & Alicia decides to leave all her money to the baby instead & begins the process of changing her will , Dave convinces Claire that Alicia must not be allowed to change her will & that they should give her a helping hand to die . . . Episode 3 from season 6 this Tales of the Unexpected story was originally aired here in the UK during April 1983 , the ninth of eleven Tales of the Unexpected episodes to be directed by John Gorrie this is easily one of the best stories from this show's later seasons that didn't have anything to do with Roald Dahl & a nice way to spend 25 minutes in it's own right . The story by Patricia Moyes was dramatised by James Andrew Hall & is one of those Tales of the Unexpected stories based around a crime that has surprising consequences , the success of this story is entirely down to it's twist ending which I think is one of the best this series had to offer . It's a short , sharp & highly effective little twist that rounds the story of perfectly . The build up & character's are also better than usual for this series , everything just works very well & as a one off 25 minute drama with a neat twist I liked it a lot . Just putting a few palm trees in an English hotel garden won't convince me this is set in the Caribbean & I doubt it'll convince you either ! This is well made enough but like most episodes from this show it's utterly bland & lifeless without a trace of style . Again there's a good cast here , Disney child star Haley Mills turns up here as the most recognisable of them . A Sad Loss is one of the best Tales of the Unexpected stories because there is a cool unexpected twist ending , definitely well worth a watch & at only 25 minutes in length it won't take too much of your life up .
" I am not economically viable . " Starts out great , ends up OK .	Falling Down starts on a gridlocked Los Angeles freeway , the seemingly ordinary William Foster ( Michael Douglas ) is stuck in his car on a swelteringly hot day , the noise of car horns & people shouting begins to bother him , then there's the fly which is buzzing around his head . Finally he snaps & gets out of his car & decides to walk home , on the way he wants to call his ex-wife Beth ( Barbara Hershey ) & check on his daughter Adele ( Joey Hope Singer ) . However he runs out of change , he goes into the nearest shop to ask for some but the owner ( Michael Paul Chan ) won't give him any . William completely flips & smashes the shop up with a baseball bat but still pays for his Coke , he sets off on foot across L . A . & gets into more trouble as he fights back against the things in society which annoy him . . . This French American co-production was directed by Joel Schumacher & is an interesting film that almost works , as it is it's a watchable piece of moralistic exploitation but it isn't quite the classic that it could have been . The script by Ebbe Roe Smith has a fascinating premise that many of us have probably thought about doing ourselves that of an ordinary man lashing out against the petty bureaucracy & the pressures of everyday life in a spectacular way . It's starts out terrifically with Douglas just leaving his car in the middle of a traffic jam because walking would be quicker & I just love the scene in the burger restaurant where he makes a impassioned speech about the difference in the picture of a burger & the one he actually gets as it's a scene I can really relate to ! However while Falling Down starts out as a dark comedic attack on consumerism & has a nice social commentary running through it the film doesn't do anything with it at all & quickly jettisons it in favour of a standard psycho on the loose & the police who are tracking him down type scenario which is nothing new & Douglas's character becomes like those he was initially targeting . By the time Douglas is using bazooka rocket launchers to blow freeway construction sites up the film has run out of steam & feels like it's forgotten it's own purpose . The ending where Douglas suddenly realises he has become the bad guy would have been good if the film had maintained it's attack on consumerism & petty law making but it doesn't so it isn't . Director Schumacher does alright , he keeps things moving along I suppose & there are some funny moments together with the more violent ones . I wouldn't call Falling Down an action flick but there are a few set-pieces here . The film starts out so well I'm not sure what happened to it but somewhere along the line it loses it's initial appeal . There's some violence , someone is stabbed in the shoulder , there's a drive by shooting , people are beaten with baseball bats & a construction site is blown up . The film also has racist overtones , Douglas comments on the Korean shop owner not being able to speak proper English as he smashes his shop up , all the gun wielding gangs are of Mexican origin , there's anti gay dialogue , one character is a Nazi who hates gays , blacks & foreigners , the homeless are portrayed as aggressive lying beggars & Douglas has a rant about the rich at the end in which he lets someone die because he's playing golf . Technically the film is very good with on location L . A . shooting , it certainly has that big budget look about it & it has high production values . The IMDb says that Falling Down was filmed between 29th April & 4th May 1992 , so the IMDb are saying Falling Down was shot in a week ! I think they need to find more reliable sources . . . The acting is OK , Douglas is alright as the anti-hero while Duvall is alright as the cop tracking him down . Falling Down could have been a classic had it been consistent throughout , as it is it's still an entertaining film with a dark humorous streak that I liked . It's a good film for sure but it could have been even better .
Decent haunted ship horror film .	Ghost Ship starts as Artic weather patrol pilot Jack Ferriman ( Desmond Harrington ) approaches Captain Sean Murphy ( Gabriel Byrne ) & his crew of professional salvager's , Jack says that while flying his route over a remote part of the Bering sea he spotted a huge seemingly abandoned ship & that if they cut him in on the salvage money he'll show them where it is . Murphy & his crew agree & they set sail , they find the boat which happens to a huge Italian cruise liner called the Antonia Graza which mysteriously disappeared in 1962 without trace . As salvage the Antonio Graza is worth a fortune so they quickly set about getting back to dock , however in an accident their own boat is blown to pieces so they are stuck on the Antonia Graza . To make matters worse it has a huge hole in it & will sink within a few days , then there's the strange ghostly goings on which become ever more unpleasant & deadly as the truth behind the ship's dark past is revealed . . . This American Australian co-production was directed by Steve Beck for the then newly formed Dark Castle Entertainment production company , Ghost Ship was the third film from Dark Castle following the two remake's House on Haunted Hill ( 1999 ) & Thir13en Ghosts ( 2001 ) both of which were perfectly entertaining films , Ghost Ship was the first of their films to be based on an original idea although I use the word original rather lightly . Anyway , the script here by Mark Hanlon & John Pogue is reasonable fun & makes for a decent enough haunted ship chiller . It moves along at a nice pace although by the end of the film I was becoming bored of seeing people randomly walk around dark corridors , luckily to balance these scenes things always seem to happen to them at some point so all the walking around to pad the running time out does have it's pay-off which is nice . The character's are a touch one dimensional but no ones going to watch a film called Ghost Ship & expect anything deep or meaningful , are they ? I must admit I quite liked the satisfying twist ending ( s ) & I didn't see it coming either , I also liked the back-story given to the ghost ship with the haunted & cursed gold & the events of it's dark past . So what we have in a nutshell is a decent teen horror with some gory moments , a fair amount of bad language some gratuitous nudity & a run time that doesn't outstay it's welcome , I liked it because it entertained me & it's as simple & straight forward as that . Director Beck OK , the film is nice enough to look at & there are a few stylish scenes especially the niftily edited fun flashback when the original passengers were killed . This film is not a remake of or has any connection to either The Ghost Ship ( 1943 ) or Ghost Ship ( 1952 ) & in fact has more in common with Death Ship ( 1981 ) although they are still two very different films . There's some gore here although after the initial showstopper gore filled scene at the start it becomes surprisingly tame , expect for that totally cool opening massacre there's a slit throat , some gory gunshot wounds , someone is literally mashed to pieces between to huge cogs & someone swings when they get a crane hook stuck under their chin . With a supposed budget of about $35 , 000 , 000 this had a decent budget but when compared to the $100 , 000 , 000 plus budgets of the biggest Hollywood productions it pales into comparison , it's well made which is alright but it can feel a bit too ' staged ' at times if you know what I mean . The CGI effects are good , the make-up effects are as well & it has good production values . The acting is serviceable , most of the bland cast members put in forgettable if adequate performances . The only actor with any class here is Byrne who does OK . Ghost Ship is an enjoyable big budget popcorn special effects laden horror which provides both a fair amount of undemanding fun & entertainment , well that's my opinion anyway & I'm sticking to it !
Decent , sometimes funny , documentary .	The Dalek Tapes is a 54 and a half minute long documentary found on disc 2 of the 2 disc special edition of the Genesis of the Daleks ( 1975 ) DVD that was released in the UK , I'm not sure if the documentary has carried over to other versions released elsewhere but I put my money on the fact that it had . As usual for these Doctor Who DVD documentary's the familiar line up of interviewees are present , Eric Saward , Terrence Dicks , Philip Hinchliffe , Roy Skelton & David Maloney etcetera . More of a surprise is that film critic Kim Newman & his silly moustache make an appearance trying to over analyse & give hidden meaning to everything . As you might expect this is just a collection of people saying how good the Daleks are & how scary they are . There's nothing new or revolutionary here . What saves The Dalek Tapes though is an examination of all the stories they appeared in during the ' classic ' series , but there is no mention of the current revival . This is quite cool with some archive footage & the like although disappointingly the Pertwee stories involving the Daleks are all but ignored & given a few token references but nought else . There are also two highly amusing diversions , one called an interlude where we see Daleks dancing in synchronisation with each other in some park somewhere ! Then there's an cheeky little scene where the documentary is interrupted & we go to a vintage episode of Blue Peter where the presenters appeal for the return of two Daleks that were stolen from outside the BBC , then a few minutes later the documentary is interrupted again with what was obviously a follow up story on Blue Peter about the discovery of the stolen Daleks including an interview with a policeman & a guy who found one lying in his drive ! The Dalek Tapes overall is a neat introduction to the Daleks which is fun & gives some insight into how they developed across the series which would be especially useful to anyone not familiar with the original series & maybe have gotten into Doctor Who because of the recent successful revival . However I'd imagine most seasoned fans won't find much here they didn't know already & why did they skip Jon Pertwee's era so quickly ?
Loved it , one of the best lads action films in a long time with a body count to rival World War II .	Rambo starts in the river village of Mae Sot in Thailand where John Rambo ( Sylvester Stallone ) earns a meagre living as a boatman , he is approached by Michael Burnett ( Paul Schulze ) who works for a pan Asian ministry church & is trying to lead a small team of volunteers up river North & into Burma to deliver medical aid & relief for those caught up in Burma's sixty year civil war . Reluctantly Rambo agrees , takes the team into Burma & than heads back . While in Burma helping people in a small village called Klaw Kbe Lo it is attacked by the Burmese military with many brutally killed & some taken prisoner . Word gets back to Rambo who then helps a small band of hired mercenaries to get the survivors back , lots & lots of people start to die . . . This American German co-production was co-written , produced & directed by Rambo himself Sylvester Stallone & one has to say I loved just about every gory minute of it . The fourth Rambo film I must confess that out of the previous three I have only seen Rambo III ( 1988 ) which I also loved & this one lives up to my high expectations . The script by Stallone & Art Monterastelli stays true to the Rambo character in these politically correct & sensitive times , I love the fact Rambo by todays standards is a dinosaur as he doesn't believe in negotiation , he doesn't believe aid workers can make a difference & he thinks to beat the bad guy's you have to blow them all to pieces ! A simple yet undeniably effective philosophy . Of course the script also paints the opposite opinion with the aid workers trying to help & frowning on any sort of killing but luckily for the audience Rambo's point-of-view wins out in the end & we are treated to some spectacularly gory & action packed set-pieces which I thought were tremendously fun & entertaining . The basic plot is pretty much the same as any action film , the good guy has to stop the bad guy's give or take a few minor differences like settings & motivation . Here the bad guy's are very bad as they kill women , children & babies , they rape , torture , execute & abuse the innocent in some very graphic sequences so it's even more sweet when Rambo turns the table on them & dispenses a bit of bloody retribution . At just over 75 minutes ( the closing credits last near 10 minutes ) the film moves along like a rocket , there's more than enough bloody violent action to keep most action junkies more than satisfied & the story is based around something that is actually taking place right now as I write this , the civil war in Burma which gives it a certain uneasy credibility although I'm not saying for one second Rambo is realistic in any way other than where it's set . Director Stallone does a fine job here , he makes the nice looking locations work very well & he doesn't disappoint when it comes to the action . Rambo has to be one of the most violent & bloody films ever to go into mainstream theatres , people literally explode in a shower of blood & limbs , arms are chopped off with machetes , women , children & babies are graphically killed , people are hanged , someone has both his legs blown off while someone else has his legs beneath his knees eaten by ravenous pigs , there's rape , there's loads of blood as head are literally blown off , the backs of peoples heads explode everywhere , limbs are blown & cut off & the scene at the end when Rambo climbs aboard the jeep with the huge gun on the back & lets rip is just one of the single greatest scenes ever in any film . Watch as all the bad guy's explode everywhere ! If that isn't enough Rambo also rips someones throat out , beheads someone with a machete & guts someone with a huge knife , all in a days work I suppose ! According to the IMDb this has a kill count of 236 which averages at 2 . 59 killings a minute . There are also plenty of explosions & action as well . All of the action scenes are well shot occasionally with a shaky camera but it's always clear what is going on which is a factor many filmmakers seem to ignore these days . With a supposed budget of about $50 , 000 , 000 Rambo is well made with high production values . Rambo is apparently banned in Myanmar , formally Burma , by the military Government which says something ! Actually filmed in Thailand the locations look very nice . The acting is alright , Stallone was never the greatest actor anyway but he does fine here & plays Rambo with a nice bitter cynicism , although he does look a bit old at times it never bothered me as he still looks in pretty good shape . Rambo is not a film for everyone , it's incredibly violent & some of the stuff the Burmese military get up to may distress but in reality war doesn't care about race , creed , religion , sex or age & I believe that Rambo merely tells it , OK more like graphically show's it like it is . If you like your action films violent then Rambo is the film for you , if not then it isn't . Maybe the best film I've seen in 2008 so far .
Excellent episode , maybe my favourite one .	Werewolf : Running with the Pack takes place inside ' Maitlin's Diner ' which is run by a kindly old couple named Teresa & Hank , working for them Eric ( John J . York ) is well liked by the couple . A young woman named Sally ( Julia Campbell ) walks into the diner & orders a drink , shortly after two rowdy bikers come in & start hassling her & things quickly escalate out of control . Hank pulls a shotgun & things get serious , then the rest of the bikers gang show up & take Hank , Teresa , Sally & Eric hostage & decide to have some fun with them . The bikers beat , shoot , humiliate & threaten their hostages as they are powerless to do anything , at least that is until Eric starts to change . . . Episode eight from the first & only season of Werewolf this originally aired in the US during Spetmeber 1987 , directed by Guy Magar one has to say that I really enjoyed Running with the Pack & for me it is possibly the best single episode from the series so far . What I really liked about this one is that it has a great late 70's early 80's exploitation horror feel about it , it reminded me of all those rape revenge flicks like The Last House on the Left ( 1972 ) & I Spit on Your Grave ( 1980 ) as some vicious thugs torture , beat , shoot , humiliate , hold hostages at knife-point & almost rape someone ( this being a TV show it stops just as Sally is about to raped ) in a surprisingly grim & sleazy feeling episode . Of course in typical Werewolf style Eric turns into a Werewolf at the end & saves the day & dishes out some justice as per the revenge part of the programme , unfortunately this being a TV show there's no blood or gore & the pay-off doesn't quite live up to the build up but I doubt the production team really had a choice since the show went out on prime time telly . At only twenty fives in length this one moves along like a rocket but just about enough time is given to character development to know broadly who is who & give them a bit of personality . Skorzeny doesn't feature in this one but bounty hunter Rogan does although he doesn't do anything other than ask whether anyone has seen Eric just like every other episode he is in . This one is surprisingly quite brutal without ever getting too graphic , shots are fired , someone's head is deliberately held underwater , knives are put to throats , people are beaten , property is wilfully damaged & by the end none of the bikers are left standing . The Werewolf action in this episode is actually minimal but the rest of the story makes up for it . One of the scumbag bikers played by Kevin Gage recently stared in Chaos ( 2005 ) in which he plays virtually the same character . Running with the Pack is probably my favourite episode of Werewolf , it's a entertaining homage to the revenge & exploitation flicks of the 70's & 80's as well as being a good stand alone story .
" How many times do I have to tell you ? Ursula Andress belongs with the transvestites not the perverts . " A fine murder mystery from Argento .	L ' Uccello dalle Piume di Cristallo , also known under the title The Bird with the Crystal Plumage to English speaking audiences , is set in Italy where a writer named Sam Dalmas ( Tony Musante ) witnesses a murder attempt in an art gallery while walking past it late one night . A figure dressed in black manages to escape & leaves Monica Ranieri ( Eva Renzi ) , the co-owner of the gallery , staggering around in pain having been stabbed in the stomach . However she is alive & Inspector Morosini ( Enrico Maria Salerno ) is on the case , it comes to light that Monica is the latest victim of a serial killer who has killed several young women recently . Morosini questions Sam who has a strange feeling about what he saw , almost as if something was wrong & just didn't fit properly but Sam is unable to remember what . That same night an attempt is made on Sam's life so together with his girlfriend Julia ( Suzy Kendall ) he is drawn into the case in a bid to piece the puzzle together & identify the killer before they become their latest victims . . . This Italian West German co-production was written & directed by Dario Argento who would go on to produce a number of films of this type as well as other's in the horror genre . I didn't think L ' Uccello dalle Piume di Cristallo is Argento's best , I prefer both Deep Red ( 1975 ) & Tenebre ( 1982 ) which show his style & visual flair off better than this , but on a basic story level I can't really complain . The script is pretty absorbing & the mystery draws you in to the film & it's character's . There isn't a great deal of exploitation & the murders are minimal but when the killers motives are revealed it actually all makes sense for a change & is sort of plausible . The twists & turns work well & I doubt many will guess the killers identity , the climax is particularly good as it reveals it's twist , explains everything & is well thought out . There are a few silly plot points that didn't work for me , that bird for instance , I'm sorry but there's no way someone could tell that a seemingly random background noise is that of a bird that only lives in one place on Earth . Since the bird was held captive in a zoo what about all the other animal noises that would have been heard ? What about people talking in the background , cars driving past the killers window & the like , I mean was the whole of the city silent except for that one bird ? Surely if the recorder picked up the sound of the bird so clearly it would have picked up & recorded other ambient sounds , right ? I also don't understand why the killer just didn't kill Sam ? Why try to warn him off the case ? I mean the killer isn't exactly scared of killing someone are they ? Why hire an assassin to kill him , & why hire an assassin who can't even shoot straight ? Overall I liked the film & these gripes I have with the story are minor when put into context , a good solid murder mystery . As with most films like this I doubt many will want to see it again as once you know it's twists & turns that's pretty much everything the film has to offer & it provides little in the way of interest beyond that . Director Argento has developed a reputation for visually stylish films & I was a bit disappointed that L ' Uccello dalle Piume di Cristallo wasn't quite as extravagant as some of his other later films , it still has a nice style & is very well filmed throughout with a nice eye for detail but the colour schemes , elaborate camera shots & angles are not quite present here . The set-pieces & gore are somewhat retrained , there's a scene in a lift when someone is slashed with a razor & a woman has her underwear cut off & then slashed to death in bed but thats about as gory as it gets . With a supposed budget of about $500 , 000 the film is very well made & you can definitely see some of Argento's style here that he would later use to great effect . The acting is OK but since the film is dubbed into English it's hard tell what the original performances were like . L ' Uccello dalle Piume di Cristallo is a fine murder mystery , it's very watchable & is an excellent starter for anyone who wants to sample the genre of the Italian ' Giallo ' to which this belongs . There are a few lapses in logic but not as many as some other's in the genre , definitely worth a watch .
Highly enjoyable 80's Alien monster gore fest .	Return of the Aliens : The Deadly Spawn starts as two campers ( Andrew Michaels & John Arndt ) witness what looks like a large meteorite crash to Earth & land nearby , they set of to find it & they quickly realise that the meteorite also brought a large toothy flesh eating alien to Earth with it . Cut to the next morning & in a large house nearby Sam ( Brewster ) & his wife Barbara ( Elissa Neil ) check the their basement after a vicious thunderstorm the night before & become the latest victims of the huge hungry alien creature that has hidden there , the alien monster spawns lots of slimy tadpole type offspring who also spread out in search of food & they definitely aren't vegetarians . . . Written & directed by Douglas McKeown this is a terrifically entertaining splatter film from the early 80's , an era when independent filmmakers could turn in a decent horror flick for very little money . Originally just called The Deadly Spawn until someone decided to cash in on the success of Alien ( 1979 ) by adding the ' Return of the Aliens ' prefix I admit it right now I think this is a fantastic film which I first saw in the early 90's & having watched it again many times since , I can honestly say I've throughly enjoyed it each time since . At only 78 minutes in length ( 75 if you don't watch the end credits ) it moves along at a nice pace , it doesn't outstay it's welcome , it lags in a few places but not for long & it has plenty of 80's gory excess . The character's are basic , the dialogue is as well although to be fair they behave & talk like normal people , you know they read the paper over breakfast , they make small talk , discuss school & things like that just like the average person might do . To be honest the only reason anyone is going to watch this is because of the alien & it gets plenty of screen time & it's satisfyingly one minded , basically it wants to eat everything that moves rather than ' stalk ' teenagers or have any elaborate plans to conquer Earth & I liked this simple yet effective motivation ! There's a great sense of fun here , there's plenty of gore & alien action & considering the entire film takes place in one location it doesn't get repetitive . I really liked this & there are many memorable scenes including a load of the small alien spawn attacking a party of old women & I even liked the ending which could have lead to a sequel . It's probably an achievement in itself that The Deadly Spawn was even finished , shot over a period of a couple of years sometimes on weekends in what seems to be a single location on grainy 16mm film . For a start I'd rather watch a film shot with 16mm film than digital video like most low budget horror filmmakers do these days , there just isn't an effective substitute for the look of film in my opinion . Everything considered the special effects are mightily impressive , don't take that statement to mean they are on a par with the likes of Starship Troopers ( 1997 ) because that's not what I mean but taken in their own right they look good . The main alien is a huge toothy thing which is well made & operated , the little tadpole things are also impressive & move very convincingly in a lot of shots . The special make-up gore effects are also very good , there's severed limbs , a decapitated head which has it's flesh picked off , someone has the skin on their face torn off , the little tadpole aliens bite someones eyes out & there's plenty of satisfyingly thick red blood splashed around . There are a few imaginative scenes like when Barbara is in the basement looking for Sam & he appears to tap her on the shoulder from behind but it turns out that it's just his severed arm in the aliens mouth as it eats it . Unbelievably The Deadly Spawn had a minuscule budget of about $25 , 000 which to my eyes is incredible , how on Earth could they make a complete film with so many good special effects , edit it , score it & distribute it for so little ? While The Deadly Spawn isn't as polished as a big budget Hollywood effort it's surprisingly well made , it has an The Evil Dead ( 1982 ) & Bad Taste ( 1987 ) guerrilla film-making feel in the sense all three films were made on low budgets over a period of time largely by people who had little more to offer than enthusiasm . The acting isn't that great but everyone gives a functional performance if nothing else . The Deadly Spawn ( I hate the ' Return of the Aliens ' prefix ) is a brilliant , gory monster flick from the 80's made for practically nothing . I loved it the first time I saw it & still do now , a real gem & lovers of exploitative 80's gory monster films should get hold of a copy as soon as they can .
" He's a nightmare in the daylight he is . " Great film .	Bride of Frankenstein starts as author Mary Shelley ( Elsa Lanchester ) that informs her guests that mad scientist Dr . Henry Frankenstein ( Colin Clive ) & his man made monster ( Boris Karloff ) in fact survive the angry villagers at the end of her last novel . . . However she goes on to tell the story of the sequel & how the monster roams around the countryside looking for acceptance & murdering a few people while Frankenstein is contacted by one of his old university teachers Dr . Pretorious ( Ernest Thesiger ) who says that he can ' grow ' a brain & needs Dr . Frankenstein's help to build a body to put it in & re animate it , at first Dr . Frankenstein refuses to have anything to do with it but when Pretorius uses his original creation to kidnap his wife Elizabeth ( Valerie Hobson ) Frankenstein has no choice but to go along with Pretorious's plans . . . Directed by James Whale & a direct sequel to his original Frankenstein ( 1935 ) Bride of Frankenstein is a great film by anyones standards & is still extremely watchable & effective even today over 70 years since it was made . The script by William Hurlbut ( although there are a further 7 writers credited on the IMDb with the ' adaptaion ' ) moves along at a nice pace & is never boring or dull & it has a good story that both entertains & engages . The film works on many levels , as a dark comedy , as a tragic love story , as a horror , as a sci-fi & drama . The film manages to get the audience to sympathise with the monster one moment while just as quickly it can turn the monster back into the villain , I was never quite sure what to feel about him . The film is populated by character's that are likable & you more often than not end up caring about them which is a hard thing to achieve in a film such as this . Director Whale does a terrific job & the film simply oozes atmosphere , the stone castle , the almost art-deco style old fashioned lab equipment , the quaint European village setting , the imposing prison cell with the huge chair & steel chains , a spooky graveyard complete with cobweb strewn underground tombs & the simple but effective woodland sets . The black and white cinematography ( don't touch the colourised version ) is simple yet very effective . Frankenstein's monster is the stereotypical huge flat headed man with a bolt through his neck but Karloff had the role down to a tee & him in Jack Pierce's make-up is a truly classic & iconic image from horror cinema . The Bride's appearance is also a classic image & is more or less perfect . Apparently the film originally ran nearer 90 minutes but the producers cut 15 or so minutes out & the footage is now thought to be lost , I wonder if it would have made the film any better & to be honest I don't think it would have as it might have slowed things down a bit . Apparently shot in 46 days for little under $400 , 000 on the back-lot at Universal studios Bride of Frankenstein is a well made film , it has great production values , impressive ( for the time ) special effects & good acting . Bride of Frankenstein is a classic of the genre & just a great piece of film-making , it's as simple & straight forward as that . A must for horror fans & I'm sure many would find much here to enjoy , a definite recommendation .
Excellent thriller . Don't give rides to strangers .	The film is set among the twisting lonely desert highways of Texas . Jim Halsey ( C . Thomas Howell ) is traveling to San Diego , to deliver the car he is driving to a customer . He's very sleepy and almost nods off behind the wheel in the early hours of the morning , an on coming trucks horn wakes him up . It begins to rain heavily . He sees a hitchhiker ( Rutger Hauer ) on the side of the road . He decides to stop and give him a lift . Little did Jim know the mistake he was making . Jim tries to start a conversation with the hitcher who says his name is John Ryder , but apart from telling him his name the hitcher says nothing and acts very strangely and coldly towards Jim . Jim stops the car and tells him he should get out . The hitcher pulls a flick knife on Jim and tells him to keep driving . The hitcher describes how he killed the last the last person to give him a ride . Jim manages to throw the hitcher of the car and drive off , thinking he is safe and that his ordeal is over . Far from it , as Jim continues on his way he notices another car and in the back is the hitcher . From then on the hitcher follows Jim around the Texas desert terrorizing him at every twist and turn . Directed by Robert Harmon I thought this was a excellent thriller . Technically as good as you would want . It's a very well made film with some strong performances , especially by Howell and Hauer . Jennifer Jason Leigh as roadside café waitress Nash is the love interest . Eric Reds script is great , the relationship it develops between Howell and Hauer is gripping and has some nice twists and turns although I thought the fist half of the film was slightly better as it concentrated on Howell and Hauer , rather than the second half when all the local police are introduced . I love the scene when Howell picks Hauer up for the first time , Hauer is intense as he talks to Howell about puncturing his eyeball while holding his flick knife to it , and asking if he knows how much blood a slashed throat would gush . The script also resists the temptation to have Howell and Leigh jump into bed together at the first opportunity . My one real complaint would be the ending which is a little low key , I was expecting a big showdown between Howell and Hauer that never happened . And don't expect a happy ending where everything turns out perfectly for everyone , because that doesn't happen either . The script also seems to suggest that the Texan roadside is littered with cafés , truck stops and gas stations , there seems to be one or the other every mile or two . There's one or two nice tight restrained action sequences and some harsh but not explicit violence . A really great , suspenseful , interesting , character driven thriller that delivers the goods and relies on a strong script . Highly recommended .
Not bad at all	Maniac cop , a late eighties horror / thriller directed by William Lustig , written by Larry Cohen ( responsible for one of my favourite 80's New York based horror films Q-the winged serpent ) and starring seasoned actors Tom Atkins , Richard Roundtree and the ever fabulous Bruce Campbell from the evil dead films ! Fear hits the streets of New York as a cop starts killing innocent citizens . Detective McCrae ( Atkins ) suspects a member of the force , a suspicion seemingly confirmed when the wife of New York cop Bruce Campbell is found dead in a sleazy motel room with her throat slit , in her possession is a dairy implicating Campbell . Campbell claims hes been set up and with the help of a female officer with whom hes been having an affair with , set out to try and clear hes name . But the real maniac is never far away and tries to implicate Campbell for even more murders . Well made , with a suitably sleazy late 80's New York feel to it . I liked this . It keeps moving , its never dull or boring , some nice action and violence in there too . Nice performances by the great cast , although I felt Atkins and Roundtree were underused . The likable Campbell gets plenty of screen time though . The ending was not so good , which has sequel written all over it in a tacky 80's horror film kind of way . Worth watching .
I liked it .	Bond girl Ursula Andress plays Susan Stevenson who travels to New Guinea with her brother Arthur Weisser ( Antonio Marsina ) to look for her husband , Professor Henry Stevenson ( Tom Felleghy , uncredited ) who has disappeared in the jungle and hasn't been heard from for weeks . They persuade a Professor named Edward Foster ( Stacy Keach ) to guide them into the jungle and help them look for the lost man . On their adventures they come across a guy named Manolo ( Claudio Cassinelli ) who decides to travel with them as they are all banished from Father Moses ( Franco Fantasia ) peaceful village he has set up with some of the local natives , lots of animal cruelty and the odd cannibal , however the cannibals don't really make an appearance until the final third of the film . But it turns out they could each be there for very different rather selfish reasons than first hinted at . Co-written and directed by Sergino Martino I rather liked this , nice authentic jungle locations that create good atmosphere , shot quite well too , with really nice colourful widescreen photography by Giancarlo Ferrando ) . The script by Martino and Cesare Frugoni moves along at a pretty good pace , it certainly keeps the story moving along nicely and tries to add the odd twist here and there , whether it succeeds will probably depend on how many of these types of films you've seen before . The effects are pretty good too , there's some fairly impressive gore , rotten bodies , intestine eating , spearing , decapitations , someone is attacked and eaten by an Alligator and at the end Andress is stripped and has her dead husbands rotting flesh smeared all over her body , nice . Like most of the other Italian made cannibal films Mountain of the Cannibal God contains a fair amount of real animal cruelty , including various animals fighting and eating each other in unnecessary detail , a lizard is skinned and gutted , some snakes are torn to pieces and a tarantula is chopped in half by a machete so be warned ! There are also pleasing amounts of nudity as well . Overall the film is very well made and seems to have good production values courtesy of Massimo Antonello Geleng . The down side would be the rather slow pace at a couple of points here and there , and if your an animal lover forget it !
Fabulous , visually impressive low budget horror film .	Five friends , Ashly ' Ash ' Williams ( Bruce Campbell ) his girlfriend Linda ( Betsy Baker ) , Scott ( Hal Delrich ) , Shelly ( Theresa Tilly as Sarah York ) and Cheryl ( Ellen Sandweiss ) have rented a cabin in some woods in the middle of nowhere . They drive up to the cabin , through the woods . That night , as they eat dinner , the cellar door slams open . At first everyone assumes it to be an animal , but to make sure Scott goes down into the dark cellar to check . When he doesn't come back and doesn't answer when the four remaining friends call him , Ash also enters the cellar . Along with Scott he looks around and finds a shotgun , a tape player , a dagger with a carved handle of skulls and the Necronomicon , the book of the dead , a grotesque looking book that's bound in human skin and written in blood . Back up top they play the tape , it's a spoken translation of the text contained within the book of the dead . Once played the evil dead are resurrected and awoke from their ancient slumber . Later on that night Cheryl thinks she hears someone outside her window , having gone out to investigate she is attacked and raped by possessed tree branches . She manages to make it back to the cabin , no one believes her but Ash offers to take her back to town . However it soon becomes apparent that they can't leave as the only bridge has been destroyed . Back at the cabin Cheryl becomes totally possessed by the evil dead and she stabs Linda in the ankle with a pencil . Soon more of the friends are possessed until only one remains , will anyone survive ? Can the friends be saved ? Can a way back to town be found ? Will that chainsaw in the work shed be used for bodily mutilation , or is it just for show ? Watch it and find out , now ! Written and directed over the course of four years by Sam Raimi , who's now hot property in Hollywood following the success of Spider-Man ( 2002 ) and it's sequel Spider-Man 2 ( 2004 ) , Raimi makes a cameo appearance in this as one of the hitchhiking fisherman near the start of the film . I love this film , it's so energetic , features loads of over-the-top gore and is just great to watch on a pure fun entertainment level , and it's no surprise Raimi has gone on to enjoy the success he has . The direction from first timer Raimi is full of imagination , style , vigour and as many clever camera tricks he can get away with and his budget would allow for . I love the ' dead cam ' , we get a P . O . V . shot from the evil dead as they twist and turn their way through the woods , with trees falling down in front of them as they pass over them . A cool looking shot where Ash buries Linda in the woods , the camera is placed in Linda's grave looking up at Ash as he shovels dirt into it , Ash chucks the dirt onto the camera lens , bit by bit the screen goes black until finally only Ash's face is visible through a little section that hasn't been covered , god knows how this was achieved but it works really well and looks like a lot of effort and thought went into a short scene . A great throwaway shot where the camera is positioned under Ash looking up at him as the soles of his shoes are visible on each side of the screen . Or a shot which follows Ash across the room from above his head , the camera speeds along to keep up with him and the beams in the roof coming into shot as he walks under them , and they make a whooshing noise as they quickly enter and leave the shot . And a shot where Ash walks on screen , but the image is upside down and the camera moves towards the back of his head and over it and turning 90 degrees it comes to rest on a shot of his face the right way up . Or the way Raimi can make someone walking up a wooden staircase to the cellar interesting , he puts his camera behind and underneath the slats of wood that make up the staircase and follows Ash as he walks up them from this cool angle , the film is visually excellent and a joy to watch , throughout . The acting is just OK , except Campbell who is as likable as always . The script by Raimi is also great entertainment and manages to pack the screen with a feast of blood soaked set-pieces . Although variable in quality the effects include , zombies , dismemberment , stabbings , decapitations , eye gouging , staking , shotgun blast wounds , burnings , beatings , bitten off hands and a pencil stuck in someones ankle , the blood flows freely in this one ! There is also some slightly unconvincing stop motion animation at the end , but like all the special effects in this film , I've seen a lot worse and they really aren't all that bad , just not comparable to todays multi million costing soulless CGI . There a couple of shots here and there when it's obvious that a double was used probably because the original actor or actress was no longer available , in particular the fight Ash has with the possessed Linda after she emerges from the grave he buried her in , her hair style is totally different between certain shots ! The only nudity is when Cheryl is raped by the possessed trees , another cool sequence . I love this film , get past a slightly slow first 20 minutes and your in for a highly entertaining and action packed gore fest , watch it as soon as you can ! Highly recommended .
" Death is the best keeper of secrets " A great ' giallo ' from the underrated Sergio Martino .	Better known to English speaking audiences as ' Torso ' , it centres on a group of friends who are studying art at a university in Rome . Two of them , Sean and Florence ( Patrizia Adiutori ) are having steamy sex in the back of a red mini , under a bridge somewhere in Rome . Suddenly they notice a man wearing a balaclava peering through the window , staring at them . Sean chases him away , but doesn't return to the car . Florence is strangled by the man using a red scarf , he then cuts into her breast with a scalpel . The murders make the front pages of all the morning papers . Carol ( Conchita Airoldi as Cristina Airoldi ) was friends with Sean and Florence . Carol begins to act strange around her friends , Daniela ( Tina Aumont ) and Jane ( Suzy Kendall ) . Professor Franz ( John Richardson ) cancels their art class for the day . Carol says she has to meet someone and disappears with a couple of boys on bikes , Peter and George . After having a fall out with the boys , Carol becomes lost in a wood and is strangled and drowned by the man in the balaclava , this time he pokes her eyes out with his fingers . Inspector Martino ( Luciano De Ambrosis ) appeals to the university students to come forward with any information they may have , and to be on the look out for anyone wearing a red and black scarf . The Inspector also questions a local market stall owner named Gianni Tomasso ( Ernesto Colli ) who sells scarfs very similar to the one used by the murderer . Daniela thinks that she has seen someone wearing a red and black scarf that the the Inspector had described , but cannot remember who or where and she also realises that she was the last person to see Carol alive as she rode off with Peter and George . After Daniela receives a threatening phone call , her uncle Nino ( Carlo Alighiero ) suggests that she and a few of her friends go to their country house for a few days , and adds that he can't come because of a business meeting in Paris . Daniela invites Jane plus a couple of lesbians named Ursula ( Carla Brait ) and Katia ( Angela Covello ) neither of whom miss an opportunity to take all their clothes off . Once there they initially have a good time . But the first night there Ursula and Katia are watched through the window as they have lesbian sex together , the village idiot has also decided to cop a look but instead of naked female flesh he sees the killer who chases him and slits his throat before throwing his body down a well . It seems the killer has followed Daniela and Jane to the Villa , but for what purpose ? What is the significance of the recurring theme of a Victorian doll ? Who is the masked killer ? Maybe uncle Nino ? Or what about Professor Franz ? Possibly Stefano ( Roberto Bisacco ) who likes to beat prostitutes up and has a unhealthy obsession with Daniela ? And then there's Roberto ( Luc Merenda ) who nobody know's well , yet he always seems to be lurking around in the shadows . Or is there another explanation , could it be someone even closer to home ? So many questions , watch the film to find out the answers ! Co-written and directed by the somewhat underrated Sergio Martino I thought this was an excellent ' giallo ' . The script by Martino and Ernesto Gastaldi moves along at a good pace , the killers identity is well hidden until the end and there are plenty of red-herrings thrown into the story to keep you guessing . Even though when finally revealed the killers motives are a little underwhelming and silly , but then that's what these films are all about with their oulandish plots and bizarre motives . I did think the last 15 minutes or so were a little sparse on action though . There are reasonable amounts of gore , but not too much . On the other hand though , it's packed with nudity and sex . The thing that stood out for me in the film was Martino's direction , which was consistently excellent throughout . He manages to create real tension in certain scenes , the sequence in which Carol is stalked through a misty wood splashing around in muddy water before she is killed and her naked breasts fondled is a stand-out . The opening murder of Florence is similarly well filmed and put together . I liked the settings and locations for the film , the fantastic architecture of the small village and Rome itself . It makes for a visually interesting film and makes a change from large American cities , and creates a good feel and atmosphere . Generally well made all round too , with Martino's usual cinematographer Giancarlo Ferrando doing a solid job . I really liked this and it has become one of my favourite ' giallos ' , and again Martino has surprised me . He produces better films more consistently than the hit-or-miss films from the likes of Lucio Fulci and Dario Argento . I don't think I've ever seen one of his films I didn't like to some extent . Definitely worth watching .
Excellent horror film remake , much better than the original .	The Hills Have Eyes tells the tale of Big Bob Carter ( Ted Levine ) & his wife Ethel ( Kathleen Quinlan ) who are celebrating their 25th wedding anniversary by driving from Cleveland to San Diego with their family , including their son Bobby ( Dan Byrd ) along with their two daughters Brenda ( Emilie de Ravin ) & Lynn ( Vinessa Shaw ) plus her husband Doug ( Aaron Stanford ) & their baby daughter Catherine ( Maisie Camilleri Preziosi ) all couped up together in one 4x4 & a trailer in the 100 plus degree heat of the New Mexico desert miles from civilisation . They stop off at a gas station where they fill up & are given bogus directions by the attendant ( Tom Bower ) which leads them even further from civilisation , however that's not all they have to contend with as deliberately set spikes on the road puncture the tyres on their car which causes them to crash . At first everyone is annoyed as they are miles from anywhere & nobody can get a mobile signal but Bob says he can walk back to the gas station & get help so it's no major problem , that is until a gang of mutant cannibals turn up looking for their next meal . . . Co-written & directed by Alexandre Aja I thought this remake was absolutely top class & enjoyed it infinitely more than the dull & drab original Hills Have Eyes ( 1977 ) . I think I am right in saying that there are two versions of The Hills Have Eyes readily available , the cut ' R ' rated one & an ' Unrated ' one , I will be basing my comment on the uncut edit ( the only one available here in the UK anyway ) . The script by Aja & Gregory Levasseur is slow going for the first half but still manages to retain ones interest with decent character's & a good opening massacre along with the suspicion that it will explode into life at any moment & boy does it . Once it gets going there's no stopping it , there's loads of gory violence , some nasty exploitation including pointing a magnum at a baby & an unpleasant rape scene you don't usually expect from Hollywood , some nice ideas that distances itself from the original but not greatly & it makes for a terrific blood-soaked , mutant filled , special effect leaden twisted quality piece of film-making ! The first half plays almost the same as the original as it introduces exactly the same character's from the original while it takes a few twists & turns later on with the introduction of a town & the mutants origins but it doesn't muck around with the basic story of survival at all costs that the original was all about . A top notch horror film & one well worth watching . Director Aja does a great job , the desert locations are magnificent with some really striking jagged rock formations & some just plain cool landscape shots . The feel of isolation is definitely there & Aja keeps on reminding us of it , it has a great atmosphere , it has some great action & gory set-pieces & it has a underlying tension to it . Now onto the violence & gore , while it's not packed with the stuff what's here is cool , there are pick axes in eyes , axes in heads , severed body parts galore , burnt corpses , someone commits suicide by literally blowing their head off with a shotgun , fingers are severed , people have their brains shot out , there's gutted dogs , someone has their throat torn out , impalings , spikes through throats , the family's pet bird has it's head bitten off & there's even a bit of cannibalism in there all of which comes accompanied with plenty of he red stuff splattered all over the place . The special effects on the kills & the mutant killer's are excellent . With a supposed budget of about $14 , 000 , 000 The Hills Have Eyes is technically brilliant , the production design , the special effects , the locations , the fights , the stunts , camera-work & music are all as good as one would hope . It was actually shot in the stunning deserts of Morocco . The acting is fine from everyone with the actors playing the mutants doing a particularly good job under all that latex , foam , rubber & fake blood . Even Billy Drago makes an appearance & he gets to eat a human heart . . . The Hills Have Eyes is a top remake that easily surpasses the original in my opinion . There's not a lot of love around for the majority of classic horror remakes but this along with the equally brilliant The Texas Chainsaw Massacre ( 2003 ) remake means many may have to start & think again . I was throughly impressed , definitely recommend & worth watching ( even on Christmas Eve ! ) .
" If I'm not me then who the hell am I ? " As already mentioned , definitely one of Arnie's best .	Total Recall is set in the future where interplanetary space travel is a reality , on Earth lowly construction worker Douglas Quaid ( Arnold Schwarzenegger ) has strange dreams involving Mars & decides to go to a company called Rekall who implant virtual memories of holidays in peoples minds . Doug ask's for a complete set of memories for a trip to Mars , the implant goes wrong & Doug has a violent reaction . The guy's at Rekall put him in a cab & send him away , then Doug's day goes from bad to worse when his friend from work tries to kill him , his wife ( Sharon Stone ) tries to kill him too & he learns that the evil ruler of Mars Vilos Cohaagen ( Ronny Cox ) has wiped his memory & dumped him on Earth . As Doug struggles to discover his own identity he is thrown into a war between Cohaagen & rebel terrorists on Mars as people try to kill him left , right & center , but which side is he working for & why . . . Directed by Paul Verhoeven I'll get straight to the point & say that I think Total Recall is a brilliant sci-fi actioner & easily one of Schwarzenegger's best films . The script by Ronald Shusett , Dan O'Bannon & Gary Goldman was based on the short story ' We Can Remember it For You Wholesale ' by famed sci-fi writer Philip K . Dick is a surprisingly intelligent & thoughtful sci-fi story with all the bangs , shoot-outs & violence associated with director Verhoeven & star Schwarzenegger which complement each other better than one might expect . The film moves along at a nice pace , it's never boring & the story is intricate & complex enough to keep you alert & concentrating , this is far from the by-the-numbers one man army action flick that Schwarzenegger is known for . The film manages to keep you guessing , it's well written enough to have several potential outcomes & it manages to make yourself doubt whether what's happening is real or just a complete dream . Of course this being an action flick there's plenty of it & Total Recall is also a very violent film , this is the type of 90's flick where it is necessary to use excessive force & gory violence at all times . The character's are interesting , the dialogue is good with some typical Schwarzenegger one liners like saying ' consider that a divorce ' after shooting his wife in the head ! I don't know what else to say really , Total Recall is just a great film with loads of violence , nudity , fights , memorable villains & a surprisingly good sci-fi plot that you need to see for yourself . Apparently David Cronenberg was originally set to direct but eventual director Verhoeven does a fine job here , he is his usual uncompromising self as Total Recall is packed full of gore , mutant freak hookers , midget hookers , nudity & general excess . He doesn't know the meaning of the word subtle & that's just another reason why I love Total Recall so much . The special effects are very impressive , from expansive shots of the Martian landscape to huge reactors under the surface of Mars this looks good even now . The Jonnycab scenes are hilarious , the futuristic vision created here seems plausible & as such the film hasn't dated at all although if I was being picky why weren't the glass used for domes on Mars bullet proof & where were the security services as Quaid & Victor shoot at each other in the subway ? What happened to the guy's behind the desk watching the X-ray machine ? They had guns , where did they go ? In the mid 80's the story which Total Recall was based upon was brought by Italian hack producer Dino de Laurentiis , he tried to make the film starring Patrick Swayze & directed by Bruce Beresford & sets were actually built in Australia but the shoot was cancelled when de Laurentiis ' company went bankrupt & that's when Schwarzenegger stepped in & convinced the brass at Carolco to buy the script & let him star . With a supposed budget of about $65 , 000 , 000 Total Recall looks the business , it's sets , special effects , production design , rousing music by Jerry Goldsmith are all top notch although Rob Bottin's special make-up effects are strangely average & don't bear close scrutiny . Shot in Mexico all of the cast & crew went down with food poisoning expect Schwarzenegger who had his food specially flown in from the US . . . The acting is pretty good , Schwarzenegger is OK , Sharon Stone looks nice while Ronny Cox & Michael Ironside play their bad guy roles with relish . Total Recall is just a totally fantastic film , it's more than just an Arnie shoot-em-up , it has neat sci-fi ideas behind it , plenty of excess violence & is just a great film . Definitely recommended . Followed by the TV series Total Recall 2070 ( 1999 ) which ran for 22 episodes .
" My boot , you kiss my boot if you want it so bad . " Another fine Holmes mystery .	The Last Vampyre starts with a prologue set in times past where a group of villagers burn a house down belonging to someone they believe is a vampyre . Fastforward 100 odd years later & Reverend Augustus Merridew ( Maurice Denham ) contacts legendary detective Sherlock Holmes ( Jeremy Brett ) & his assistant Dr . Watson ( Edward Hardwicke ) about the mysterious goings on in the village of Lambery since a stranger named John Stockton ( Roy Marsden ) arrived . The local villagers believe Stockton is a vampyre , Carter ( Andrew Abrahams ) the Blacksmith gorily died shortly after having an argument with Stockton , Miss Ruddock ( Hilary Mason ) an old spinster who lives opposite Stockton claims he never sleeps & the Reverend himself has seen Stockton prowl the church graveyard many times during the dead of night . At first Holmes seems uninterested but the Reverend goes onto say that Recardo ( Anthony Price ) the baby of Bob ( Keith Barron ) & Carlotta Ferguson ( Yolanda Vazquez ) died shortly after coming into contact with Stockton & that a unexplained plague is spreading through the village . Holmes accepts the case & faces superstitious locals & growing evidence that something supernatural may indeed be going on particularly after the Ferguson's maid Dolores ( Juliet Aubrey ) is found with two puncture wounds on her neck . . . This made-for-TV English , American co-production was directed by Tim Sullivan & a fine adaptation it is too . I will openly admit now that I have not read the short story ' The Adventure of the Sussex Vampire ' by Arthur Conan Doyle on which The Last Vampyre is based upon so I simply cannot compare the two , sorry . The script by Jeremy Paul is nice & involving as it draws you into the mystery but I was surprised that for the most part it doesn't centre on a murder . In fact Holmes states early on that no crime has been committed but accepts the case out of curiosity & it's mysterious elements . Once I got over that fact I became interested & engaged in the story which gripped me throughout as I really wanted to see where it was going . The character's are strong with plenty of mistrust , arguments , affairs & friendships & I liked where the story went as it built up to a pretty decent double twist ending as all is revealed . I have too say I didn't guess the outcome & bizarrely I couldn't stop thinking about the cool scene near beginning when Dolores the maid tries to make her boss's son Jack ( Richard Dempsey ) kiss her boots & what significance it had , or indeed will have , to the plot although to be fair the scene does have meaning in the context of the film , it's just a brief scene for some reason I couldn't stop thinking about whenever the character's reappeared on screen . Technically The Last Vampyre is very solid , while the budget probably wasn't huge the production is suitably impressive although there are still villages that look like the one in this in the UK even now , the props & settings are not too extravagant or detailed which gives it a certain bleak minimalist look & the costumes look & feel right . The acting is impressive from a good cast & I'm warming to Brett as Holmes having also seen his portrayal of the character in The Hound of the Baskervilles ( 1988 ) made a few years prior to this . Despite the fact that there is no murder for Holmes to investigate the other mystery elements of the story managed to grab & maintain my interest right through to the very satisfying climax where all is revealed . I think this is a must for Holmes & mystery fans alike & definitely worth a watch for more casual viewers as well , recommended .
" I vote for outer space . . . noway these are local boys . " Highly entertaining monster film .	Tremors is set in the small isolated American desert town of ' Perfection ' population 14 where friends Valentine McKee ( Kevin Bacon ) & Earl Bassett ( Fred Ward ) work as handymen & general dogs-bodies . One day they decide enough is enough , pack their things into their truck & head for a better life . However while driving along they discover the dead body of a local drunk named Edgar ( Sunshine Parker ) stuck up an electricity pylon . Val & Earl do the decent thing & report it but still plan on leaving Perfection but again while driving along they discover the decapitated head of Fred ( Michael Dan Wagner ) a local farmer & the remains of his sheep that have been torn to pieces . It's not long before they discover the cause of these deaths , huge worm like creatures that burrow just under the surface & eat just about anything that moves . Together with seismologist Rhonda LeBeck ( Finn Carter ) & her equipment they come to the conclusion that these creatures are headed straight for Perfection whose population is rapidly decreasing . . . Directed by Ron Underwood I thought Tremors was a great way to pass 90 odd minutes . The script by producers S . S . Wilson & Brent Maddock is an affectionate homage to all those giant monster films from the 50's & 60's , Tremors moves along at a nice pace & it never becomes either dull or boring as our human cast have to outwit the giant worms & stay alive . Tremors never takes itself seriously & is also quite light-hearted with various one-liners & jokes although some of Val & Earl's dialogue is pretty humorous as well plus they have a good on screen chemistry . The character's are a little clichéd , the good looking hero , the attractive female , the annoying kid & a store owner but they are all given a bit more life & depth than usual . My one real complaint is that Tremors seems to be trying to cater to the younger teen audience with an almost inevitable happy ending & a sense that nothing will happen that's going to shock or surprise . With a supposed budget of about $10 , 000 , 000 Tremors has some nice special effects with the worm creatures looking suitably monstrous & impressive , there isn't much in the way of blood or gore just a few splats of blood , some mutilated sheep & some exploding worms . It is well made throughout with nice cinematography that capture the expanse of the desert valley locations , good music & has that Hollywood polish too it . The acting is pretty good especially from Bacon & Ward who make this film although Michael Gross & Reba McEntire as the over-the-top gun toting survivalists Burt & Heather Gummer descend into annoying silliness a bit too often . Personally I think Tremors is well worth watching especially if your a horror fan but also those just looking for something fast paced , fun , entertaining & doesn't take itself seriously should find something here to enjoy , I reckon you should give it a go .
One of the best Stephen King adaptations around .	Carrie starts in a girls locker room ( which , in my opinion as a bloke , is a good place to start ) where the girls are getting changed & Carrie White ( Sissy Spacek ) is having a shower . As she soaps herself down she begins to bleed , she is having her first menstrual period but thinks she is bleeding to death as she knows nothing about what is happening to her because her strict fanatical religious mother Margaret ( Piper Laurie ) hasn't told her about the facts of life . The rest of the girls taunt & tease her , throwing tampons at her & laughing , the gym teacher Miss Collins ( Betty Buckley ) comes to Carrie's rescue . The Bates High School prom is fast approaching & the nasty mean Chris Hargensen ( Nancy Allen ) is barred from going , she blames Carrie & together with her boyfriend Billy Nolan ( John Travolta ) plans to gain a cruel revenge . Meanwhile Sue Snell ( Amy Irving ) feels sorry for Carrie & tells her boyfriend Tommy Ross ( William Katt ) to ask Carrie to the prom , he agrees & Carrie accepts despite strong protests from her loony mum . At the prom things go well to start with but Carrie is humiliated in front of the entire school by Chris , in a rage of anger Carrie uses her powers of telekinesis , the ability to move or change objects through the power of the mind , to gain some sweet revenge of her own . . . Directed by Brian De Palma Carrie is a good horror film . The script by Lawrence D . Cohen is based on the 1974 novel by Stephen King which I have not read so I cannot compare them , in fact Carrie was King's very first novel & in turn became the first to be adapted into a film . Carrie is all about character's , feelings & it tries to say something meaningful , it's not an easy film to pigeonhole as it could be described as a horror , thriller , drama or fantasy with strong elements from all . Every emotion in the book is here , sadness , sorrow , pity , anger , hate , happiness , jealousy , fear & it even touches upon the taboo subject of child abuse . The film does a brilliant job at portraying these emotions so that you really care & feel for these people which makes what happens so much more meaningful . There is an ' Ugly Ducking ' vibe to it as Carrie starts off shy , unhappy & suffers plenty of growing pains before she transforms into something different at the prom . Carrie is pretty slow going for the majority of it's 100 odd minute duration but this is essential as things build up superbly towards the climax where the horror really kicks in . I don't usually like slow character driven films but Carrie worked for me & I enjoyed it but don't expect a happy ending as Carrie is most definitely not a feel good film . Director De Palma does a first class job here , the character's are brilliantly drawn & developed . He gives the film some style with a few really cool memorable shots like the dizzying spinning camera scene when it revolves around Carrie & Tommy for what seems like ages , the split screen effect at the climax where we see Carrie's anger as she dishes out some revenge & , of course , that opening shower scene . . . Forget about any violence or gore as that's not what Carrie is all about , just a few stabbings . With a supposed budget of about $1 , 800 , 000 Carrie is well made throughout , good special effects , some nice stunts , good music & solid production values throughout . The acting is simply superb from everyone involved , Spacek is absolutely brilliant here & was rightly nominated for a best actress Oscar in ' 77 & Laurie was nominated for best supporting actress although neither won ( I have no idea who did that year but they must have been good ) . A young John Travolta does well . Carrie is a classic piece of horror that has impact & is quite a powerful watch , it's well made & stands up well even today although the slightly slow pace & lack of gory action may put some off . I'm sure you can get this cheap on DVD these days & it probably turns up on TV all the time too so there's no excuse not have seen , or see sometime in the near future , Carrie . Definitely worth watching .
Decent backwoods horror , better than expected .	Wrong Turn starts as Chris Flynn ( Desmond Harrington ) becomes stuck in a large traffic jam somewhere in the isolated wilderness of a West Virginian highway , he needs to be at a meeting so he decides to take a shortcut through the woods . It's a decision that turns out to be a bad move as first he crashes his car into a jeep leaving himself & the jeeps passengers , five teenage friends Jessie ( Eliza Dushku ) , Carly ( Emmanuelle Chriqui ) & Scott ( Jeremy Sisto ) plus Evan ( Kevin Zegers ) & Francine ( Lindy Booth ) out on a camping trip , stranded in the middle of nowhere with no transport & no reception for their mobile phones . Their misery doesn't end there though , as if that wasn't enough it soon becomes apparent that there is a retarded , inbred family of deformed cannibalistic mutants living in the woods who slaughter & eat anyone they come across . Bummer , sometimes it just isn't your day . . . This American German co-production was directed by Rob Schmidt & I can vividly remember seeing it when it originally came out a few years ago & not being impressed with it ( in fact I gave the DVD to my friend Kelly ) but it was on TV last night in a convenient time slot so I decided to give it another go & I have totally changed my mind as this time I really liked it , I don't exactly know what has changed ( maybe my expectations were much lower this time ) but I now think it's a pretty damn good horror . The script by Alan McElroy moves along like a rocket , almost no screen time is wasted & that makes for a fast paced pretty exciting horror . The character's all have just about enough personality to care for them without us ( thankfully ) having to know their entire life story . On the negative side the film is very one dimensional & basic , I think you could write the basic premise on the back of a postage stamp & there is virtually no explanation as to who the killers are , why they kill people because if it was purely for meat why not just kill animals , it would be a lot safer wouldn't it ? They don't seem to do it for ' sport ' either so there really isn't any reason to their actions . To be fair during the opening credits there is a montage of newspaper clippings that talk about inbreeding , genetic mutations & mountain men but when a film plays a main plot device ' under ' the opening credits & then never mentions it again you know your not in for a particularly intellectual viewing experience . Still , at least it gets the boring exposition out of the way early on & concentrates on the important stuff like killing people , who needs a story anyway ? Director Schmidt does a good job , the film has some cool sequences . There is a nice isolated exploitation atmosphere to the whole thing although there is some silly stuff in it . For instance you cannot fall from a cliff & live , or out of a 30 foot tree & survive . The ending also takes the horror film cliché ' he's not dead yet ' to ridiculous levels , I think these guys must be bullet & fireproof . Why does the mutant at the end wait to attack Chris ? Why wait until Chris has killed the other one ? It doesn't make sense as I'd have thought two inbred cannibalistic mutants are better than one in a fight to the death than one . . . I have to say I was a bit disappointed with the gore on show , there is a severed ear , a few mutilated dead bodies , an arrow stuck in someones head , an arrow in someones back & the best scene in which someone has half their head sliced off with an axe which is accompanied by a cool camera angle / shot . Overall I was hoping for a little bit more . . . With a supposed budget of about $10 , 000 , 000 Wrong Way has that Hollywood polish about it & is very well made throughout , the special make-up effects are excellent , some of the CGI forest effects less so . The acting was pretty good actually & I have no real complaints here . Wrong Turn is a great horror film , I think it will appeal to modern audiences as it moves along like a rocket , it has the obligatory teenage cast , little in the way of story & some good kill scenes . A good film that I definitely recommend & I was surprised how much I enjoyed it yesterday .
" That's basically how it was done . " Neat little & informative Doctor Who DVD documentary .	Synthesizing Starfields is a 9 minute 14 second documentary about the creation of the new Doctor Who titles & theme music that premiered during season 18 & were first seen on The Leisure Hive ( 1980 ) so it seems more than relevant that this documentary is found on that stories British DVD release . The opening titles & music to Doctor Who are surely some of the most instantly recognisable & iconic TV show openings ever & this is a great little documentary interviewing Sid Sutton who designed the titles & the new Doctor Who logo & Peter Howell who composed the theme music . There is archive footage featuring Howell from ' The Music Arcade ' a BBC schools programme from 1982 in which he demonstrates how he made the theme , the equipment he used & the individual tracks of music are played in isolation which when put together make the full theme . On a personal note I think Howell's theme music is the best in the show's history & although Sutton's starfield is a little bland they go together to make up one hell of a cracking opening sequence . Synthesizing Starfields has everything you would want I suppose , nice clear explanations of how the music & title sequence were made using black cardboard with holes in it , cardboard tubes fitted to cameras & ancient looking keyboard synthesizers amongst other things & their personal thoughts on their work which they seem proud of & willing to talk about .
Decent special effects documentary .	Land of the Dead : Bringing the Dead to Life is a short 9 and a half minute documentary that looks at the special make-up effects used in George A . Romero's 2005 zombie film Land of the Dead . There isn't much to say about this one except it ' a precession of people who worked on Land of the Dead giving praise to Greg Nicotero the special effects guy . There are some nice behind-the-scenes stuff as they prepare the effects , apply the make-up & some initial screen tests but it's all too brief & a bit random . This can be found on the Land of the Dead DVD & it's an OK watch but it's not that informative . Worth it for the behind-the-scenes footage but it could have been presented better .
" This is where all the zombiness happens . " Quite amusing actually .	Land of the Dead : A Day with the Living Dead is a short 7 and a half minute light hearted tour around the set of George A . Romero's 2005 zombie film Land of the Dead by one of it's stars John Leguizamo . What makes this slightly different & slightly more fun is that Leguizamo comes across as a cheeky little sarcastic git . He's actually quite funny as he tries to mock everyone & generally take the mickey . Oh , & he swears a lot too . He certainly has a likability & charisma about him that makes you want more but 7 and a half minutes is all we get . Added to this is the usual behind-the-scenes footage including some of the gory stuff from different angles & as it appeared ' on set ' . Being a ' free ' extra on the Land of the Dead DVD this is certainly worth a watch if you have access to it but it won't stay with you that long & you can't help but wish it was longer .
" If I were a Crow I'd be some place else " When it comes to terror . . . they're in a field of their own !	Sorry , I stole that last quote off the UK video box as I thought it sounded cool . Anyway , I've been itching to find an uncut copy of this & watch it so when I brought one off eBay for a ridiculously low price I was indeed excited . Was I disappointed or not ? Read on to find out . . . Scarecrows starts with a radio broadcast that informs us that a Military base's payroll office somewhere in / near San Diego has been robbed by five heavily armed commando-trained crooks . They stole $3 . 5 million & left three soldiers dead before hijacking a cargo plane , it's pilot Al ( David James Campbell ) & his daughter Kellie ( Victoria Christian ) forcing them to take off for Mexico & making their escape . However , en-route greed soon rears it's ugly head as one of the robbers named Bert ( B . J . Turner ) double crosses his four ( ex ) friends , Bert throws the money from the plane & parachutes after it in the darkness of night leaving everyone behind to deal with a grenade . They throw the grenade from the plane & decide to go after Bert . So Curry ( Micheal David Simms ) , Jack ( Richard Vidan ) & Corbin ( executive producer Ted Vernon ) all parachute from the plane in pursuit of Bert while the final member of the group , a woman named Roxanne ( Kristina Sanborn ) stays on-board & forces Al to land the plane . Bert lands in a tree near a cornfield , he cuts himself down & notices lots of Scarecrows as well as a farmhouse belonging to the Fowler family , but on inspection the house & surrounding farmland seem deserted . While trying to escape with the money Bert is stabbed by a grotesque living Scarecrow . Eventually everyone ends up at the farmhouse as they look for Bert & the stolen money , they find neither as they become more & more uncomfortable around the large number of creepy looking Scarecrows that reside in the cornfield . Unfortunately for them the Scarecrows have hideous & violent plans of their own for them ! Will they be able to retrieve the money & survive the killer Scarecrows ? And what is the grisly secret that these flesh seeking Scarecrows will kill to protect ? It's well worth watching to find out ! Edited , co-produced , co-written & directed by William Wesley I really rather liked this fun & entertaining little horror film . The script by Wesley & Richard Jefferies moves along at a very good pace & generally speaking is never boring , although there a few problems . The macho dialogue is a little dumb on occasion & I wasn't impressed with the speed in which Kellie suddenly starts to like the bad guys even risking her life to help one live when it's their fault she's in this bad situation to start with & they were at least partly responsible for her Father's death as well . A lot of things go unexplained , where did these Scarecrows come from ? Why are they there ? Why do they kill people ? How were they created ? In some ways the end credits tell us more than the film itself as it's revealed from the character listings that the Scarcrows are in fact the Fowler family , a point not made clear during the film itself . And why does a shot of that black & white photo keep appearing ? I did like the air of mystery for sure , but I'd have liked at least some sort of explanation no matter how dumb sounding . I really rather liked the ending too , I loved the line " hey Curry how are we going to live in Mexico ? We're dead " that Jack sadly & emotionally asks his friend Curry who has just suffered the same fate as he , almost appearing to seek guidance from his friend rather than the line coming across like a cheap one-liner . The opening sequence set in the plane is very rushed & feels awkward , the filmmakers obviously didn't have the money to do a big action scene with exploding grenades & a gunfight & as a result it falls a little flat . Having said that I found much to enjoy during Scarecrows , the atmosphere is terrific & the photography by Peter Deming makes excellent use of harsh light & shadow even if it can come across as being far too dark at times . I loved the creepy Scarecrows themselves & they really look the business even if they're a little underused especially during the first half . There's some neat gore in the uncut version too , I loved the scene when a Scarecrow was sawing one characters hand off with a rusty blade while another stuck a huge knife through their face ! There's a cool decapitation & various other impaling , stabbings , some self improvement using a severed limb & string , mangled bodies & in a macabre copy of the Scarecrows themselves some ripped open torso's stuffed with money & straw which I also thought was a cool touch . Technically Scarecrows is surprisingly well made with competence throughout only revealing it's obviously low budget during it's overly ambitious action scenes set aboard the plane . I just thought it was a really entertaining & creepy horror film & if the truth be told that's all I was hoping for , definitely recommend if you can track a copy down . I was impressed , a bit of a hidden gem as far as I'm concerned & the sort of horror film that fans such as myself have to trawl through countless bland rubbishy horror to find , Scarecrows is the type of horror film that makes the search worth it .
" How many different ways can sht smell ? " I rather liked it .	Creep starts as two London sanitation workers Arthur ( Ken Campbell ) & George ( Vas Blackwood ) are clearing a blockage deep under the streets when Arthur notices a new passageway that wasn't there before , venturing inside Arthur quickly becomes aware that something nasty has broken free & is lurking in the shadows . . . Meet Kate ( Franka Ptente ) who knows where George Clooney is hanging out & fancies a piece of the action so gets herself to the nearest tube station , unfortunately she falls asleep on the platform & misses her train . She searches for a way out but finds the station locked up , then another train stops at the platform & she gets on it in the hope that it will take her to a manned station . However the train suddenly stops , the lights go out & her nightmare is just about to start . . . This British German co-production was written & directed Christopher Smith & I have to say I rather liked it for a few reasons . The script of Creep takes itself extremely seriously & is all about the build-up , in fact the entire film is pretty much one long stalk ' n ' slash chase with all the false scares , the discovery of dead bodies strewn everywhere , the bit part character's being killed off & a shocking revelation . It's all here , present & correct . I don't usually like slow films but I think the build-up here is well handled & I found it quite watchable due to a certain air of mystery as the film doesn't try to give too much away to begin with although to be fair it's hardly rocket science & when it does shoot it's load it's not exactly life changing stuff but it'll do , hey this is just a horror film after all & doesn't try to be anything else . Whether you like the character's will depend , I can see both cases for liking them & hating them especially Kate who seems somewhat cold & isn't developed that much . To be honest I liked her , I don't want to hear her entire life story with long boring stretches of pointless dialogue , I liked the fact that she found herself in this horrible situation & just got on with it & nothing else really mattered . At least she didn't transform into some kung fu kick-boxing action hero that a lot of films would have turned her into . Plus thank god there wasn't any annoying American teenagers in this film , you see not all horror films need them . The creep himself isn't given any concrete story but there are clues to his origins here so make up your own mind , to me it's perfectly simple & easy to figure out . Creep probably bears a strong resemblance to another British horror film set on the Undrground called Death Line ( 1972 ) AKA Raw Meat in the US . Director Smith does a good job , I liked the way it looked even if it was a touch too dark at times . There's also something quite cool to know that I've been there , I've used the Underground many times & this is a perfectly reasonable representation of it & there wasn't anything that I thought was particularly far-fetched or unrealistic in it's portrayal . There's a nice atmosphere , a nice claustrophobia & a certain tension along with one or two cheap scares . The scene when the creep ' prepares ' for surgery is very effective & the London Underground is used pretty well throughout . I was disappointed with he gore on offer , it goes for realism rather than over-the-top fountains of blood . There's a decent slit throat , there's a fair few dead mutilated bodies , someone has the high heel of a stiletto shoe shoved in their eye , someone has their head impaled on a spike & in the films best death there's a really cool & gory demise at the end involving a hook , a speeding train & someones throat . . . Technically Creep is good & in fact better than I had expected , it's definitely well made & it's also nice to see a modern low budget horror actually shot on film in a 2 . 35 : 1 full widescreen ratio rather than a digital camcorder . The special effects are good & the make-up on the creep himself looks suitably , erm creepy . The acting was OK , no-ones going to win any Oscars but it was OK . Creep was a pleasant surprise for me , I rather liked it . I liked the atmosphere , I liked he setting , I liked the fact I've been there & it's all very British & I liked it as a horror film . Personally I think it's well worth a watch , but then that's just my opinion .
A cool 80's slasher with some great gore .	The Prowler is set in the small American town of Avalon Bay , it's June 28th 1945 the night of the high school graduation & the local teens are enjoying the party . Francis Rosemary Chatham ( Joy Claccum ) & her boyfriend Roy ( Timothy Wahrer ) are enjoying each other's company outside away from everyone else when a masked killer strikes & impales them on a pitchfork . Jump forward to Avalon Bay during June 28th 1980 the day before the first graduation held since that fateful night 35 years ago , Pamela MacDonald ( Vicky Dawson ) & her friends are getting ready to go to the party but at the same time someone is getting ready to kill off everyone there . Lovers Sherry ( LIsa Dunsheath ) & Carl ( David Sederholm ) are first to fall victim to the killer but they certainly won't be the last before the night & graduation party are over . . . Recently released uncut in Britain on DVD under the ( better in my opinion ) title Rosemary's Killer after we have had to suffer with a horribly edited VHS version which basically cut every gore scene in the film & since the only reason The Prowler is worth watching are those gore scenes it's nice to have it uncut over here at last for the first time over 25 years since it was made . Co-produced & directed by Joseph Zito I'm not going to kid anyone here about The Prowler , basically it's a standard early 80's teen slasher flick that offers little besides some gory murders but did you really expect anything else ? If you did then your looking at the wrong flick . The script by Neal F . Barbera & Glenn Leopold is nothing more than an excuse to kill off various teenage character's in the name of entertainment , The Prowler is more of a Friday the 13th ( 1980 ) clone with it's gory effects rather than going for subtlety & tension building like Halloween ( 1978 ) . Personally I thought The Prowler was great , I enjoyed it a lot particularly the brutal kill scenes . The character's are OK , the dialogue is alright & the killers motives are reasonable if not particularly memorable . It's not perfect though , it can drag at times when the padding between the kills kick in & one has to question whether it needs to last 90 odd minutes , I don't understand why the two kids having sex in the basement weren't killed off since everything was set up perfectly for them to be , I don't understand why the prowler didn't kill Mark at the end since he raised the pitchfork over his throat ready to impale him & after Miss Allison is killed there's no more kills until the final five minutes . Director Zito turns in a decent slasher here a few years before he helmed Friday the 13th : The Final Chapter ( 1984 ) , there's reasonable amounts of tension , there's a nice early 80's horror film atmosphere & there are some truly excellent special make-up effects courtesy of Tom Savini ( there's a documentary on the American DVD with some neat behind the scenes footage of the effects shot on set by Savini ) . From slashed throats to bayonets through peoples heads to naked girls impaled on pitchforks while taking a shower & a showstopper at the end as someones head is literally blown off with a shotgun , the gore effects are utterly convincing & among Savini's best work although they may be a touch brutal & gory for some . This also has great looking fake blood , it's nice & thick & a realistic deep red rather than thin runny brightly coloured fake blood that looks like red wine or indeed , god forbid , CGI computer blood effects . With a budget of about $1 , 000 , 000 The Prowler is well made , it has good cinematography , superb special effects & decent production values . Filmed on location at Cape May in New Jersey . The acting is alright , no-one is going to win any Oscars or anything but they do OK . Apart from the final unmasked shot at the end apparently the prowler himself was played entirely by assistant director Peter Giuliano . The Prowler is one of my favourite slashers , it has some excellent gore effects by Savini , decent direction & a solid 80's atmosphere . Definitely recommended to slasher fans , other more casual viewers with no particular interest in the slasher genre may not get so much out of it though .
The perfect 80's slasher film ? Maybe . . .	Friday the 13th : The Final Chapter starts as the authorities are cleaning up the dead bodies left by murderer Jason Voorhees ( Ted White ) , he himself was supposedly killed & his body is taken to Wessex County Medical Center . Everyone thinks Jason is dead but they are wrong & it's not long before he has killed yet again & is on the loose looking for more victims . Six teenage friends , lovers Paul ( Clyde Hayes ) & Samantha ( Judie Aronson ) , Doug ( Peter Barton ) & Sara ( Barbara Howard ) plus Ted ( Lawrence Monoson ) & Jimmy ( Crispin Glover ) have hired a log cabin out for the weekend in the Crystal Lake area & become prime targets for the hockey mask wearing homicidal maniac Jason Voorhees who has no intention of stopping his killing spree . . . Directed by Joseph Zito this was the fourth instalment of the highly successful Friday the 13th series of slasher films & there's a strong case to say that it could be the best one of them all . The script by Barney Cohen follows the same simplistic pattern as before but Friday the 13th : The Final Chapter manages to be a lot darker in tone & a lot more brutal than a lot of slashers before or since . The kills come thick & fast , there's never too long to wait before the next victim & the kills are nice & brutal . There's enough nudity to satisfy including a couple of cute twins , the teenage character's aren't that annoying for a change & as a whole the film works very well within the context of what it sets out to achieve . I really like the Friday the 13th series as a whole & this is definitely among the best of them if not the best outright . I liked it , a lot . Director Zito does a pretty good job , he keeps things moving along & manages to inject some tension & atmosphere to the film . The infamous hockey mask barely features in this one as Jason is kept as a killing machine & nothing more , he has no real character or likability in this one . The gore is strong in this one unlike other entries in the series which were cut to shreds , Jason hacksaws someones throat , people are stabbed , have meat cleavers stuck in their heads , people are impaled on various objects , someone has a knife plunged into the back of their head while someone else has a knife stuck through their throat & Jasons death in this one is great thanks to some top special effects by Tom Savini . With a supposed budget of about $1 , 800 , 000 Friday the 13th : The Final Chapter apparently made over $11 , 000 , 000 on it's opening weekend , now you know the reason why this wasn't the final chapter . Generally speaking it's well made & competent throughout . The acting is pretty good all round & better than one might expect from a film of this nature , even Cory Feldman didn't annoy me . Friday the 13th : The Final Chapter isn't art , it isn't going to win any awards & it's not going to change your outlook on life but it is just about the perfect slasher . An absolute must for Friday the 13th fans & those interested in the horror genre .
Top quality big budget monster bashing action packed entertainment .	Van Helsing starts in ' Transylvania 1887 ' where Dr . Victor Frankenstein ( Samuel West ) succeeds in bring his creation ( Shuler Hensley ) to life , however the evil Count Vladislaus Dracula ( Richard Roxburgh ) wants it & the secret of Frankenstein's experiments to help him give life to his young . . . Jump forward ' One Year Later ' to ' Vatican City Rome ' where Cardinal Jinette ( Alun Armstrong ) orders monster killer Van Helsing ( Hugh Jackman ) to Transylvania to destroy Count Dracula , Van Helsing has little choice . Once there Van Helsing meets up with Anna Valerious ( Kate Beckinsale ) who is also trying to kill Count Dracula , they team up together to achieve this goal but they quickly discover it's not as easy as they had hoped . . . This American Czech Republic co-production was written , co-produced & directed by Stephen Sommers & I have to say I have now seen Van Helsing twice & enjoyed it immensely both times . The script is set in a fictional Victorian world which lots of familiar monsters & character's inhabit & it has them all meet up , in this sense it's very similar to The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen ( 2003 ) although I think Van Helsing is a better film . Anyway , the film moves along like an absolute rocket , you can't take your eyes off it for a second or you'll miss a fight , a monster , a great set , a ridiculously extravagant set-piece or just Kate Beckinsale in that super sexy outfit complete with ultra tight corset & thigh boots . The entire film is littered with references to other classic horror / action films , in fact I'd say maybe it relies too much on paying homage & not quite enough time on being original but when a films this much fun I'll cut it some slack . The character's are not that well developed but since most will already be familiar with them who cares ? On a negative side perhaps the pace is too fast , no-one ever seems to stop to catch a breathe & as a result as I've mentioned the character's & plot are given little to develop & suffer plus there is some truly awful dialogue that at times is quite embarrassing & then there's the fact it lasts for over 2 hours , on a personal level I dislike films which are too long & I'd have preferred Van Helsing to be a bit shorter although I can't think of anything I'd like to see less of . Overall though I thought it was a cracker & provides terrific non-stop entertainment as long as your not after something serious or deep , which I'm not because for me films are ALL about entertainment , it's as simple & straight forward as that . Director Sommers does OK , having said that he seems intent on bombarding us with non stop CGI special effects , fights , action set-pieces & monsters , while for the most part they're spectacular it does get a bit repetitive after a solid two hours of the stuff . To be honest in a weird way I feel like I'm criticising a Lottery win because I won too much money , strange eh ? With so much overblown CGI on show there's no subtlety in Van Helsing at all , forget about much suspense or any of the scares which the original films Van Helsing was based on were all about . To keep the rating down the violence in Van Helsing isn't explicit & forget about any blood as it's not that sort of horror film . With a mind boggling supposed budget of about $160 , 000 , 000 ( ! ) Van Helsing looks brilliant , everything is so extravagant , the special effects are top-notch , the set-pieces are as big as they come & the whole thing looks fabulous with some cool sets from the Transylvanian village to the interior ( & exterior for that matter ) of Count Dracula's Gothic castle to Dr . Frankenstein's lab & I love the story in the IMDb's ' Trivia ' section for Van Helsing which claims that the lab was equipped with antique medical equipment purchased on eBay ! The acting isn't up to much but then did you expect it to be ? You know I really do think it was a great decision to cast Beckinsale who is a real hot looking bird & have her kicking the hell out of people in that outfit , good work all round I reckon . Roxburgh complete with earrings makes for a slightly campy but still quite cool Dracula . Van Helsing isn't for everyone that's for sure , the purists & those looking for something a little quieter & a bit more serious should avoid it . Those looking for top big budget mindless entertainment to pass a couple of hours , don't mind the odd lapse in logic & like hot women in tight corsets & thigh boots then Van Helsing could very well be the film for you . I loved pretty much every overblown , over-the-top second of it & if you have a problem with that sue me . . .
Top big budget incredibly violent no-brainer action film .	Rambo III starts as U . S . army Colonel Trautman ( Richard Crena ) tracks the one man army that is John Rambo ( Sylvester Stallone ) down to Bankok in Thailand where he is living with Buddhist monks ! Trautman & special ops man Griggs ( Kurtwood Smith ) ask Rombo to go into Afghanistan & help them take out an evil Russian named Zaysen ( Marc De Jonge ) , Rambo refuses their request . Trautman goes in alone but is captured by Zaysen & tortured , Griggs again turns to Rambo & informs him his friend Trautman has been captured . Rambo decides to go into Afghanistan himself , single handedly rescue Trautman as well as blow lots of things up & kill a few Russians . . . The third Rambo film this had a few behind the scenes production problems including the original director Russell Mulcahy being fired & replaced by the original 2nd unit director Peter MacDonald , personally I think it's a terrific late 80's testosterone filled overblown big budget Hollywood action flick the likes of which we don't really see anymore . The script by star Sylvetser Stallone & Sheldon Lettich moves like an absolute rocket , it's action packed , it's incredibly violent & brutal , there's plenty of cheesy dialogue & a few amusing one liners , it's just so over-the-top & it even tries to say something poignant about war ! Hell , what more do you want ? I'm amazed at how low the score for this is on the IMDb as I think it provides fantastic no-brainer entertainment , it's the perfect film for a group of blokes to stick in the DVD player , gets some drinks & crisps & just sit back & enjoy , enjoy & enjoy on a Neanderthal level ! The character's are alright , Rambo is totally indestructible while Zaysen is an OK villain . Those who like deep meaningful stories with complex character's & go queasy at the thought of any violent act then this is obviously not the film for you but for sheer fast moving , gun fighting , explosion destroying , helicopter crashing , tank driving , fist fighting mindless action entertainment they don't come come much better than Rambo III & it's as simple & straight forward as that . It's impossible to know just what was shot by who here but the film looks nice enough , the landscapes are a bit barren & bare at times but that's what the desert is like I suppose . The action is top notch , there's loads of explosions , things blowing up , fights , gun battles , all sorts of military weaponry & vehicles as well as a whole army of extras being killed in a variety of violent ways . Apparently the 1990 edition of the Guiness Book of Records had Rambo III listed as the most violent film ever made with 221 acts of violence & at least 108 deaths , amazing eh ? To be honest it's hard to disagree as it is one very violent film & it's quite brutal as well , there's lots of gory gunshot wounds & some torture scenes as well . I must admit I didn't like the young boy being involved as much as he was or when he twirled Rambo's huge knife around in a cool almost glamorous way & at the end when he ' became ' a fighter & the film almost seemed to condone this young boy fighting in a war , considering the way the world is at this moment in time it just sat uneasily with me that's all . With a budget of around the $65 , 000 , 000 mark Rambo III was the most expensive filmed ever made up to the point when it came out , it's well made with high production values & some spectacular action scenes although try to watch the DVD version as it's presented in full 2 : 35 : 1 widescreen & believe me that's the way it should be seen so you can see all of the on screen destruction . This won Stallone a Razzie award for worst actor & it was nominated for another four including worst director & worst film which is pure crap as this is a throughly entertaining flick although one must admit Stallone's performance isn't anything to shout about . I thought Kurtwood Smith was underused though . Rambo III may have a unfairly low IMDb rating but I think it's a fantastic big budget popcorn flick that moves like a rocket , has plenty of violent action & I've seen it numerous times with each time being just as enjoyable as the last . Definitely worth a watch for 80's action fans & it hands down beats any of the straight-to-video action crap the likes of Jean-Claude Van Damme & Steven Seagal are churning out these days . I for one am looking forward to the fourth film in the Rambo series John Rambo ( 2008 ) which is currently in production with Stallone himself as director .
A good , solid and enjoyable mix of comedy and horror .	Keith ( Chris Makepeace ) and his college roommate AJ ( Robert Rusler ) are sent on an fraternity initiation that involves hiring a stripper for a party . They convince the most unpopular kid in college Duncan ( Gedde Watanabe ) to lend them a car , Duncan's only condition is that they take him with them and pretend to be his friends . They head into Los Angeles to find a strip club . Looking through a local paper they decide on the After Dark Club . Once past the cockroach eating doorman Vic ( Sandy Baron ) Keith and Duncan grab ringside seats and watch the show while AJ tries to find a suitable stripper for the party . Katrina ( Grace Jones ) takes to the stage and performs a dance which leaves everyone in the club spellbound . AJ goes backstage to try and get her to perform at the party . Back in the club Keith is being hassled by an attractive waitress , Alison ( Dedee Pfeiffer ) who says she recognizes him , at one point Duncan comes out with a great line he says " you don't have any friends who want to remember me do you ? Nah , I didn't think so . " Later on in the night he also asks a different waitress " what time do you get off ? " she replies " 2 . 30 " Duncan then says " can I watch ! ? " When AJ doesn't reappear from backstage Keith becomes suspicious and starts asking questions . As the night draws on Keith realizes this is no ordinary strip club and as his night continues to go from bad to worse will he live to see the morning and save his friends ? Written and directed by Richard Wenk I liked this and thought it was good fun . The way Wenk films the night scenes is highly stylized , he uses a pink and green neon lighting effect . For instance there is a scene when Keith is walking in an abandoned sewer system , as he walks down a tunnel one side of it is bathed completely in pink and the other side in green , almost all of the exterior night shots are lit this way , it looks quite cool if a little unusual . The special make up effects by Greg Cannom are for the most part impressive , we get a ripped out heart , bitten necks , slit wrists , death by high heeled shoe , a melting face and decaying vampires . Surprisingly , considering it's set in a strip club there isn't a lot of nudity , hardly any in fact . The acting was fine even if Chris Makepeace makes for a slightly dull leading man on occasions , Dedee Pfeiffer makes for a very sexy heroine , and best of all Grace Jones didn't say a single word throughout the entire film which is just the way it should be . The script is a little slow to get going , it takes over half an hour for the horror elements to kick in , but when it does it's great fun . Although Duncan as the comedy relief didn't always work and became annoying on occasions , and why when their running around in Los Angeles is there no one else anywhere ? Not one single person , or car . Overall I liked it , you could certainly do a lot worse . Recommended for some fun .
I love this cheap and cheerful horror film ! It's so gloriously entertaining in it's badness !	A woman ( Alma Ramas ) is murdered in a mountain stream deep in a remote Utah wood , the running water turns red with her blood . Shortly after a bird watcher ( McCormick Dalten ) has his arm chopped off with a machete and is also murdered . Meanwhile four young friends Peter ( Jack McClelland ) , Craig ( James Hayden ) , Ingrid ( Mary Gail Artz ) and Joanie ( Angie Brown ) are back packing through the mountains for a relaxing and fun few days in the wilderness . Back at the local town , the grossly overweight Sheriff ( Ken Carter ) and his Deputy ( David Barth ) have been getting lots of missing person reports . The Sheriff quickly dismisses them as nonsense . A man named Dale ( Dale Angell ) in the most garish horrible looking bright pink shirt and matching beret , along with his mother ( Ruth Grose ) is taking pictures of the beautiful scenery . They are both quickly killed by the as yet unknown psycho . The four back packers carry on deeper into the woods . After Craig , Ingrid and Joanie tease and make fun of Peter he decides to sleep on his own away from the others . That night more innocent people are killed . The next morning while by a stream on his own Peter sees a fisherman ( Hank Zinman ) killed by a ' wild man ' ( Tom Drury ) , we know he's a wild savage because he has a long beard , scruffy hair and makes funny noises . Peter rushes to warn his friends but it's too late as the maniac has butchered Craig . Will he be able to save Joanie and Ingid ? It certainly doesn't help when the three become separated . The maniac is in constant pursuit , who will survive and can the murderer be stopped before even more innocent lives are lost ? Directed by James Bryan I loved this film , it's just so entertaining , despite or should that be because of it's faults and all round awfulness . The music grates on your nerves after a while and large chunks of it appear to have been taken directly from an earlier horror film called Frozen Scream ( 1975 ) , the acting is bad and the whole film looks dubbed , the special effects are cheap but that's the way it should be , plus the editing and photography aren't exactly brilliant . The script by Garth Eliassen is great fun . It's never explained where the killer comes from or his motives for killing everyone he meets , and he doesn't say a word throughout the entire film which is just fine with me , who needs a story anyway ? There are so many people running around these ' remote ' woods it's unbelievable , roller skating chicks , artists , bird watchers , tourists , fishermen , ramblers , people making out in the back of camper vans and wheelchair bound cripples who think it's a good idea to travel deep into thick forest on their own ! The so-called twist ending is totally stupid as well , just like the rest of the film so I didn't mind in the slightest ! There are plenty of death scenes , people being hack up with a machete , people are impaled , decapitations , a painful looking death by bear trap , and being thrown off waterfalls , all with plenty of blood and gore , good stuff . Some very funny scenes in this too , like when Peter accidentally stabs a man thinking he is the killer only to keep saying " I'm sorry " over and over as he dies . And the two idiots in the camper van , Dick ( Frank Millen ) and Cherry ( Carolyn Braza ) who has the one of the biggest and crooked noses I've ever seen , and she's so dumb she can't even shut the doors on the camper van properly . A special mention goes to composer H . Kingsley Thurber who is credited with the closing song , to the tune of the ' the teddy bears picnic ' : " Don't go in the woods tonight , you probably will be thrilled . Don ' go in the woods tonight , you will probably be killed . There's a friendly beast that lurks about , and likes to feast , you won't get out . Without being killed and chopped up in little pieces . " You should hear how this guy sings this , it's absolutely hilarious and well worth watching the film all the way through to the end credits alone . Totally impossible to recommend as it's awful , but at the same time I just found it so entertaining to watch . A great ' bad ' film .
Classic episode with a neat twisted ending .	Monsters : Pillow Talk starts as horror writer Miles Magnus ( John Diehl ) & his latest lover Barbara ( Ruth de Sosa ) enter his apartment , soon Miles has Barbara on his large double bed but much to Barbara's horror his bed turns out to be an ancient tentacled monster with a huge toothy mouth that likes to eat pretty young girls & Barbara quickly becomes it's latest meal . This monster has an insatiable appetite & Miles is always on the look out for more potential food for it , he then meets & charms a fellow writer named Viki ( Mary Woronov ) who has a secret of her own . . . Episode ten from season one of Monsters this originally aired in the US on 24th December which was as we all know is Christmas Eve although one has to say Pillow Talk is far from a festive tale , directed by Carl Stine this is a great episode that I throughly enjoyed . The whole plot revolving a huge monster that eats women living inside some horror writers bed is just a great concept that works very well in a short twenty odd minute horror anthology & there's even a good unexpected twist ending that also works very well in context with the episode & what it's trying to do . Pillow Talk otherwise is quite simplistic but that's one of the reason why it works I suppose , there's a bit of exposition about where the monster came from & that it's either some ancient creature from the beginning of time or an alien of some sort with psychic powers . The monster in Pillow Talk seems to have been styled on the Sarlacc Pit monster from Return of the Jedi ( 1983 ) as it's just a big round mouth with lots of sharp teeth & tentacles to pull pretty young girls inside it . There's a certain ominous atmosphere about it & the story is a little weird & certainly memorable . The acting is alright with veteran actress Mary Woronov quite good as the scheming Viki . Pillow Talk is yet another bizarre off the wall Monsters episode that works very well , it's sort of creepy in an odd way & it's got a monster which eats girls in it . What more do you want ?
One of the best episodes from the series .	Monsters : Mannikins of Horror ( the IMDb is definitely wrong , the on-screen title says Mannikins rather than Mannequins ) is set in a mental institution where one time brilliant surgeon & inmate Dr . Collins ( William Prince ) resides , Dr . Jarris ( Glynis Barber ) feels she can help him but Collins obsession with the little clay men he sculptures with great anatomical detail including giving them hearts & brains convinces the institute warden Dr . Starr ( Brian Brophy ) that Collins is a hopeless case & beyond help . Starr removes the clay men from Collins room but soon discovers to his cost that that Collins & his creations have a unique bond . . . Episode twenty three from season one of Monsters this originally aired in the US during May 1989 , directed by Ernest D . Farino & the second Monsters episode to be based upon a story by famed horror author Robert Bloch after The Legacy ( 1988 ) from earlier in the season I am not sure why the word mannequins is spelt so oddly in the title ( as it was in Bloch's original story ) but it's a cracking episode all the same & one of the best from the entire series . I was very impressed with this on both conceptual & technical levels , maybe I'm overrating it but that's how I genuinely feel about it . The story based on one by Bloch had already been adapted & filmed as part of an anthology in the Amicus horror flick Asylum ( 1972 ) & the two share some similarities like character names , the setting & various incidents but feel quite different & I would say this is probably the better version . There's a subplot where it's hinted that it's set in a Government controlled state which doesn't really go anywhere but apart from that it's a terrific piece of horror writing & there's a really good solid intriguing story , some creepy scenes & a great ending which if you know the original story won't be a surprise but I suspect most won't have . One aspect where this version of Mannikins of Horror is far superior to the one in Asylum are the killer puppets themselves which in Asylum were chunky toy like robots that never convinced you they were alive & move about freely while here they are sleek carved men from clay even including genitals for the males ! The special effects used here is stop-motion animation & it works really well & a lot of time was obviously spent on it . In fact this whole episode looks quite high budget & polished with good production values , the sets are good & they are more convincing than usual & there's a certain expansive feeling to this episode as well . There's a couple of good gore scenes as well , someone has a knife stuck in their eyeball in close-up while someone else has their face squashed & mangled . The cast do alright & minor star Glynis Barber does OK . Mannikins of Horror is another excellent episode of Monsters that has high production values & a filmic look , at twenty minutes the story could have used a bit more time but it works very well . Add that to some good special effects , a couple of decent gore scenes & a twist ending you have something a lot better than it has any right to be . I was impressed , an excellent episode .
" You could always stay here & get turned into a Goldfish . . . " Classic monster film , they don't make ' em like this anymore .	Warlords of Atlantis starts deep in outer-space as the credits play over a large ball of flaming Martian rock as it hurtles towards a prehistoric Earth & ends up in the Sea . . . The film then switches to the middle of the Atlantic Ocean during the Victorian period . A boat named the ' Texas Rose ' slowly sails along , on-board is a rich Professor ( Donald Bisset ) & his son Charles Aitken ( Peter Gilmore ) who hope to find the legendary lost underwater city of Atlantis using American Greg Collinson's ( Doug McClure ) specially designed diving-bell . Captain Daniels ( Shane Rimmer ) warns the Professor about these waters , waters where boats have been known to just vanish but no one is interested & they carry on regardless . Both Charles & Greg dive deep under the Ocean's surface & encounter an aquatic dinosaur that tries to eat them , they also discover a solid gold ancient relic which the crew above manage to get aboard . Unfortunately for them a giant Octopus attacks the Texas Rose & the crew , Grogan ( Hal Galili ) , Fenn ( John Ratzenberger ) , Jacko ( Derry Power ) & the Captain are taken while the young deckhand Sandy ( Ashley Knight ) is left behind with the now wounded Professor . I'm not quite sure how but everyone ends up in a huge underwater bubble which houses the world of Atlantis & it's various cities . They are welcomed by a guy in a silver sequin dress named Atmir ( Micheal Gothard ) who takes them to the 3rd city of Troy , Charles is deemed clever so is separated from the group & taken to meet the supreme council who appear to be lead by Atraxon ( Daniel Massey ) & Astril ( Cyd Charisse ) while the others are condemned to a life of slavery & thrown into the dungeon's . Being a slave for the rest of his life is an idea which Greg isn't too keen on so with the help of a rather good looking female slave named Delphine ( Lea Brodie ) who luckily for any male viewers wears a skimpy cleavage revealing dress & some of the local wildlife they decide to make a break for it , but will they be able to rescue Charles & make it back to the diving-bell before they are either eaten by some monster or killed by the Atlanteans ? Directed by Kevin Connor this was the fourth & final ' lost world ' film he & star Doug McClure made together , the first being The Land that Time Forgot ( 1974 ) , the second was At the Earth's Core ( 1976 ) , after that came The People that Time Forgot ( 1977 ) & Warlords of Atlantis rounded of the loose series of films which is probably my favourite overall . The highly entertaining script by Brian Hayles moves along like a rocket & is never neither dull or boring which always helps & it also manages to combine the swashbuckling adventure , fantasy & Sci-Fi elements that make these types of films so much fun to good effect throughout . It never takes itself too seriously with references to the Mary Celeste coming to mind & the bizarre notion that the Atlanteans are in fact Martians . There are a few plots holes & slightly underdeveloped ideas but hey , nothings perfect right ? The characters are likable & the treacherous crew sub plot worked well , I was a little surprised about the end as Doug strangely didn't get the girl this time . Like the previous Connor films the monsters aren't exactly the pinnacle of realism , in fact most people would probably describe them as poor but I'd rather have the charm & personality of a man in a rubber monster suit than a cold lifeless fake looking computer graphic any day of the week . Along with the giant Octopus , flying prehistoric Piranha fish , dinosaurs & large Eels I especially liked the giant Millipede / fish creature that rises out of the water a couple of times , great stuff . I was impressed with the production design credited to Elliot Scott & the sets in particular , some of the Atlantis cityscapes were obviously just flat matte paintings but they looked good overall , from the dungeons to the higher cities which have a palatial feel to them & as a whole Warlords of Atlantis is quite a handsome film to watch . Forgetting about some of the less than spectacular special effects on a technical level Warlords of Atlantis is solid throughout , the acting is OK & I personally think the hot Lea Brodie as the love interest Delphine is easily the most attractive out of the four films & makes for the best heroine , the photography is nice enough & it has an all round decent polish about it . I really liked Warlords of Atlantis , much like Connor's other monster films this is terrific fun if your in the right mood & can forgive the generally dodgy special effects & as we all know good special effects don't necessarily guarantee a good film so surely the opposite is true as well , right ? Well it is in this case , great entertainment for all the family & well worth watching .
The first sequel to the original is also a fine horror film .	Made in 1991 this is the first sequel to the original and highly enjoyable Puppet Master . We open in a cemetery where the killer puppets from the first film dig their creator Andre Toulon ( this time played by Steve Welles ) up . They open his coffin up and bring him back to life using the green serum he invented . Megan Gallagher from the first film is now dead , her brains were sucked out apparently . The Bodega Bay hotel is now abandoned and owned by the government . They send a team from the office of paranormal claims to investigate Paul Whittaker's ( who is now in an asylum for the insane ) crazy stories and claims . Carolyn Bramwell ( Elizabeth Maclellan ) , her brother Patrick ( Gregory Webb ) , Wanda ( Charlie Spradling ) and Lance ( Jeff Weston ) . A psychic also joins the team , Camille ( Nita Talbot ) . Soon after arriving Camille disappears suddenly and Patrick is killed by one of the puppets , Tunneler . For some reason they don't call the police they call Camille's son Micheal ( Collin Bernsen ) . And no , I couldn't figure out why . Anyway , while discussing the puppet that killed Patrick , a strange man enters the room . It's Toulon . He is dressed in all black , a long cape over his shoulder and back , a black fedora , and blacked out goggles , his head is completely bandaged up very much like the invisible man . No part of his body is visible under his clothing . He claims his name is Eriquee Chanee and that he owns the hotel . It seems that the puppets are running out of the serum that give them strength and life . They have brought Toulon back to life so he can create more serum for them . He creates a new puppet too , called Torch . He needs fresh human brain matter to make the serum , local farmers and the paranormal investigators provide the necessary ingredients . However , Toulon is convinced that Carolyn is the reincarnation of his murdered wife Elsa , and betrays his puppets so he and Carolyn / Elsa can live forever in freaky full sized human puppets . Pin Head , Blade ( as cool as ever ) , Torch and Jester aren't impressed and decide to extract a gruesome revenge . This time directed by Dave Allen I thought this was another great horror movie , with above average production values . Again the puppets are great and I felt sort of sorry for the ones that were killed , much more sorry than any of the human characters in the film . The puppet effects are again , as in the first quite impressive considering the budget and reputation of the makers . I've sat through a lot worse , that's for sure . Special make up effects are also good , with Toulon taking his bandages off at the end to reveal a rotting zombie , who ends up slashing his own throat in the films nastiest scene . The makers also had the good sense to include the required nudity and sex . The entertaining script by David Pabian again tries to create atmosphere , and an actual story around the puppets . This time he tries to give a little more of Toulon's background , and how he came to know how to create the serum . It succeeds up to a point , I really like the imagery of the bandaged Toulon sneaking around , and freaking everyone out . His loving speech's to his killer puppets are nice , and they create some sympathy for both Toulon and the puppets . For most of the film it seems they just want to live in the hotel together and be left alone , until Toulon goes nuts over Carolyn anyway . The images of those two freaky human-ish puppets at the end is also striking . Speaking about the end I really liked it , quite cool . Music appears to be basically the same from the first , but that was good enough so it's not a problem . The acting is OK at best , poor at worst . Another unexpectedly good horror , and fine film in general . Certainly worth watching if your a horror fan .
" Is he nutty or something ? " Another great Hammer House of Horror episode .	Hammer House of Horror : Rude Awakening tells the tale of successful estate agent Norman Shenley ( Denholm Elliott ) who is contacted by a Mr . Rayburn ( James Laurenson ) who wants a nearby property called Lower Moat Manor put on the market & sold , Norman agrees to take a look at the property & drives out there to discover a large rundown house . Inside things turn strange when he hears a voice which says he shouldn't have killed his wife Emily ( Pat Heywood ) & he is horrified when her seemingly dead body falls out of a service elevator in the wall , Norman then wakes up & is relieved to discover it was only a nightmare . However things go from bad to worse as the vivid & terrifying nightmares continue as Norman's line between fantasy & reality becomes ever more blurred . . . Rude Awakening was episode 3 from this unfairly short lived British anthology horror series produced by Hammer studios for TV & this story originally aired here in the UK during September 1980 , the second of three Hammer House of Horror episodes to be directed by Peter Sasdy ( this was sandwiched between The Thirteenth Reunion & Visitor From the Grave ) I thought this was a great episode . The script by Gerald Savory is an excellent psychological horror thriller that manages to blur the lines between fantasy & reality really well which isn't easy , usually when a large proportion of a film or TV program is either a dream or fantasy it becomes difficult to relate to it & the constant ' is this real or not ' becomes annoying & sometimes confusing but Rude Awakening handles it as well as anything else I've seen . It helps that at only just over 50 minutes in length it moves along at a great pace , it never becomes boring & it never outstays it's welcomes & everything that's here seems relevant in a proper structured framework & it comes together very well at the end . The character's & dialogue are both good & as a whole this is a neat piece of psychological horror . As usual the low TV budget didn't help & out goes the traditional Hammer Gothic period setting & in comes a early 80's English setting ( those bright red phone boxes brings back some memories I can tell you ) , this helps in the fact that you can relate to it but obviously it loses a fair amount of atmosphere . There's no gore in this one but there is a bit of nudity although the strong well developed story definitely kept me interested . The acting is good & this is very well made with a cinematic feel to it which is no surprise when you learn director Sasdy made several feature films for Hammer including Taste the Blood of Dracula ( 1970 ) , Countess Dracula ( 1971 ) & Hands of the Ripper ( 1971 ) . Rude Awakening turned out to be a great compact 50 minute piece of horror themed British TV , why don't they make show's like this anymore ?
A brilliant , gripping & absorbing creepy horror film that relies on good storytelling !	Ringu starts with a young Japanese girl named Tomoko ( Yuko Takeuchi ) & her friend telling each other scary stories about a people dying exactly one week after watching a mysterious videotape . Tomoko claims that she has seen the video in question , precisely a week ago . Before the night is over Tomoko is dead . Reiko Asakawa ( Nanako Matsushima ) is a typical nosey reporter trying to find a good story when she becomes involved in Tomoko's mysterious death . Reiko decides to investigate the story deeper & after some detective work finds the videotape . Reiko makes the mistake of watching the tape , moments after it's over the phone rings . Reiko is cursed & has seven days to try & save herself which becomes even more desperate when her young son Yoichi ( Rikiya Otaka ) also watches the tape . Together with her ex-husband & Yoichi's Father Ryuji Takayama ( Hiroyuki Sanada ) she tries to solve the clues & lift the curse that will it seems , inevitability lead to her death ! Directed by Hideo Nakata I thought Ringu was an excellent horror film . The script by Hiroshi Takahashi based on the novels by Koji Suzuki is gripping throughout . Not much on screen action takes place , there is no blood or gore , but I was absolutely glued to my seat ! The story is both fascinating & absorbing from beginning to end . Director Nakata creates some truly creepy & chilling moments throughout , you would never think something as simple as a phone ringing could be unnerving ! The power of the film lies in the story which is revealed as the film progresses , make sure you go into Ringu knowing as little about it as possible . Ringu has a very unfussy , almost documentary look to the photography & production design . Don't expect any flashy camera tricks or expensive overblown sets . This approach , keeping it in the ' real ' world , works brilliantly & makes Ringu even more creepy . Everything about this film just works , the only reservation I have is that the final revelation isn't quite as drastic as I'd like & Ringu has no re-watch value whatsoever as once you know how it ends the film will lose two of the things that makes it so great , unpredictability & originality . Oh , and don't be put off by the fact that this is a Japanese film & has subtitles , Ringu is an extremely rewarding film to watch . See it as soon as you can !
" You know , a couple of years ago , this would have seemed really strange to me . " Highly enjoyable big budget action .	The Mummy Returns begins in ' Egypt 1933 ' where the now married Rick ( Brendan Fraser ) & Evelyn O'Connell ( Rachel Weisz ) are on the trail of an ancient artifact called The Bracelet of Anubis , a bracelet that belonged to the evil Mathayus the Scorpion King ( The Rock ) centuries ago . Meanwhile at Hamunaptra the city of the dead the evil Baltus Hafez ( Alun Armstrong ) & Meela Nais ( Patricia Velasquez ) the reincarnation of Egyptian princess Anck Su Namun have discovered the remains of the high priest Imhotep ( Arnold Vosloo ) who they intend to bring back to life to fight & defeat the reincarnated Scorpion King & take control of his army that will enable them to conquer the earth . However Baltus needs the Bracelt of Anubis to reveal the location of the Scorpion King's pyramid & they will go to any lengths to gain possession of the bracelet which currently Rick & Evelyn have although unknown to them their young son Alex ( Freddie Boath ) has it on his wrist . Baltus & his gang kidnap Alex & use him to show them the way to the Scorpion King , although Rick , Evelyn , Jonathan ( John Hannah ) & Ardeth Bay ( Oded Fehr ) are hot on their tails to save Alex & the world . . . Written & directed by Stephen Sommers The Mummy Returns was the sequel to the smash hit remake of The Mummy ( 1999 ) & in my opinion is a slightly better film . The script is all about being bigger , louder & better than the original with one extravagant overblown set-piece after another . The film moves along like a rocket , in fact The Mummy Retrurns has to be one of the fastest paced films I've ever seen , there's barely a scene that goes by where there isn't a special effect , shoot-out , chase , explosion or some sort of action . As a result the character's are pretty shallow & I honestly don't know why Jonathan is back as he does nothing , I think in some ways they're as much of a passenger as we , the viewer , are . The story introduces all sorts of mythical Egyptian cities , legends & monsters & feels very much like an Indiana Jones globe-trotting action packed adventure with a hint of archaeology & horror thrown in there ! Although The Mummy Returns is about as far removed from reality as any film can be so don't expect to learn anything , if you know what I mean . The Mummy Returns is big budget over-the-top entertainment that I thought was great fun & had had many enjoyable sequences although it's a little silly & a bit overlong at over two hours . Director Sommers does a good job , there's plenty of flashy CGI effects & some great action sequences . Everything looks great , the production design is top-notch as are the costumes , locations & period sets . The fights are well choreographed & I rather liked the the Scorpion King monster at the end even if the close-up special effects aren't the best . Not that it matters but if you look at Rachel Weisz's boots she wears throughout the film you'll notice how the heel changes between shots , sometimes she has high heels , then medium & then totally flat soles depending on what she has to do , however I'll cut her some slack as I don't think you could do back-flips in high heels without breaking your ankles . . . With a supposed budget of about $98 , 000 , 000 The Mummy Returns is well made & has that big budget Hollywood polish to it . The acting is almost incidental , it's not particularly good from anyone but it'll do . Is it just me or does anyone else think Rachel Weisz looks really hot in this ? The Mummy Returns in my opinion is a great film , it moves along like a rocket & it has some terrific action scenes & special effects . There's plenty of bang for your money here , definitely worth a watch & I reckon it's a highly entertaining film . After proving popular here The Rock got his own spin-off film The Scorpion King ( 2002 ) while on the back of The Mummy Returns the animated TV series The Mummy : The Animated Series ( 2001 ) was made .
" Lets have a sift , I'm all for a good sift . " Wonderful comedy horror spoof from the Carry On boys .	Carry On Screaming ! starts in Oakham Woods as a young couple Albert Potter ( Jim Dale ) & Doris Mann ( Angela Douglas ) are out on a date . Albert disappears to investigate a strange noise & upon his return he finds Doris missing . Scotland Yard's finest Detective Sergeant Sidney Bung ( Harry H . Corbett ) & his trusty sidekick Detective Constable Slobotham ( Peter Butterworth ) are on the case & make the connection between this case the disappearance of several other young women in the same area within the past year . They search the woods but find nothing except a finger , they stumble across a large house belonging to Doctor Orlando Watt ( Kenneth Williams ) & his sister Valeria ( Fenella Fielding ) who are secretly using a hairy monster named Oddbod ( Tom Clegg ) to kidnap women which they then turn into shop dummies which they then sell to local stores , they are questioned but Bung finds nothing suspicious . Can Bung piece the clues together , figure out the truth & put a stop to the Watt's sinister plan ? It's well worth a watch to find out . . . This British production was directed by Gerald Thomas & was the twelfth Carry On in a series that has produced over thirty films & Carry On Screaming ! is surely one of ( if not the ) the best . The script by Carry On regular Talbot Rothwell has all the sexual innuendo , smutty gags , crude humour & puns that make these Carry On's so much fun to watch & thankfully it doesn't take itself too seriously . I have to admit that I find Carry On Screaming ! hilarious even as a die-hard horror fan or perhaps even because I am . It parodies & makes fun of all the Hammer horror film so popular at the time this was made with great affection & it is never disrespectful towards it's inspiration . Director Thomas tires to take the mickey out of everything , Dr . Jekyll & Mr . Hyde , mad scientists , a sexy vampire , old dark creepy mansions , a mummy , bringing the dead back to life , the sinister butler & plots involving the kidnapping of sexy young English maidens & adds plenty of humour to the proceedings so it never becomes too scary or frightening . It moves along like a rocket , it never becomes boring & is consistently funny , I love the interchanges between Bung & his dim-witted partner Slobotham , the hilarious rows Bung & his wife Emily ( Joan Sims ) have night after night as he comes out with sarcastic quips to her constant moaning , the silly dialogue & situations that crop up & I just think the entire film works extremely well at what it sets out to do . Another area where Carry On Screaming ! succeeds so well is that it looks & feels like a horror film with wonderfully atmospheric period sets especially Dr . Watt's mansion & basement laboratory . The costumes are great with Bung wearing a Sherlock Holmes type cape & smoking from a pipe & how did Fielding get into that dress ? The cinematography by veteran Alan Hume is great with a rich bright almost garish colour scheme , fantastic stuff . The over-the-top acting as everyone camps it up big time is worth watching the film for in itself , Corbett was a last minute replacement for Sid James when he couldn't take part due to illness & does a great job while Feilding makes for an incredibly sexy & hot looking villain , the other Carry On regulars like Williams who hams it up with the best of them , Sims , Dale , Butterworth , Charles Hawtrey as Dan Dann the gardening man , Bernard Bresslaw as Sockett the butler & future Dr . Who Jon Pertwee also turns up . I think Carry On Screaming ! is a fantastic film from the catchy & funny opening theme song right down to the happy almost feel good ending , wholeheartedly recommended & an absolute must for Carry On & comedy fans .
Good start .	Doctor Who : The Brain of Morbius : Part 1 starts as the TARDIS arrives on the planet Karn , the Doctor ( Tom Baker ) is sure the Timelords diverted the TARDIS there . Karn is home to the mystic Sisterhood who are convinced the Timelords sent the Doctor to steal the remaining drops of an elixir of life produced by a dying flame , Karn is also home to a scientist named Mehendri Solon ( Philip Madoc ) & his hunchbacked dim witted servant Condo ( Colin Fay ) who live in some sort of castle . The Doctor & Sarah Jane ( Elisabeth Sladen ) happen upon the castle & are invited in by Solon who wants to use the Doctors head as the recipient in an audacious & sinister brain transplant . . . Episode 17 from season 13 this Doctor Who adventure was originally aired here in the UK during January 1976 & was both the fifth & penultimate story from Tom Baker's second season as the Doctor , directed by Christopher Barry this is a great opener to a classic story . This four part story was originally written by Terrence Dicks but wasn't what script editor Robert Holmes wanted so he rewrote large chunks of it & changed things around so in the end the on screen credit went to Robin Bland after Dicks apparently told Holmes to come up with some ' bland ' pseudonym ! Anyway , the behind the scenes rewrites don't seem to have hurt The Brain of Morbius that significantly as it's another top story from the classic early Tom Baker years which actually had the balls to try & be scary & sinister unlike when John Nathan Turner turned the show into a camp pantomime . This story borrows heavily from Gothic horror , an atmospheric fog enshrouded landscape , an ancient castle , a mad scientist , brains in jars , a hunchbacked assistant who goes around cutting bits of aliens for his master to use in his experiments & a cool cliffhanger ending as Sarah is attacked by a headless creature stitched together by Solon ! This one is right up my street because of my liking for outright horror as well as a very large soft spot for Doctor Who & The Brain of Morbius combines them both most satisfactorily ! Beware of the old mid 80's video & laser-disc releases as they were heavily cut down to just over 58 minutes long while the latter uncut re-release ran for just over 99 minutes so a whopping 40 minutes was edited out ! This one looks pretty good , sure the sets are a bit creaky but they still add a lot of atmosphere when the show still tried to be scary . The headless monster at the end which attacks Sarah is only seen for a few seconds but looks pretty gross for what was essentially a children's show . As expected Mary Whitehouse ( a real pro-censorship campaigner here in the UK ) wasn't best pleased with The Brain of Morbius & she was quoted as saying The Brain of Morbius ' contained some of the sickest and most horrific material seen on children's television ' , now if that isn't a recommendation all on it's own I don't know what is ! Saying inflammatory crap like that probably meant more people watched Doctor Who because of the controversy so I don't know what saying something like that would achieve . The creature killed & decapitated by Condo during the opening sequence was a Solonian mutant from the season 9 story The Mutants ( 1972 ) as apparently the production team didn't want to build another monster suit for such a small part . The Brain of Morbius is another top Tom Baker Doctor Who story from my favourite era from the show , maybe I'm biased but I don't care because I liked it & that's all that matters to me . . .
" So , how does it feel to be almost brutally butchered ? " A classic already .	Scream starts with Casey Becker ( Drew Barrymore ) receiving a phone call which she puts down to a wrong number , however the caller keeps ringing her back each time becoming increasingly hostile & threatening . It's not long before Casey finds out that her boyfriend Steven Orth ( Kevin Patrick Walls ) has been gutted & she is next . . . The news of the double murder quickly spreads through the small American town of Woodsboro as Sheriff Burke ( Joseph Whipp ) concentrates his investigations at the local high school questioning all the pupils , including Sidney Prescott ( Neve Campbell ) whose Mother was brutally raped & murdered a year earlier . Later that night as Sidney waits for her friend Tatum Riley ( Rose McGowan ) to pick her up she too receives a phone call from the ghost masked killer & is attacked but her boyfriend Billy Loomis ( Skeet Ulrich ) conveniently shows up just in time . Reporter Gale Weathers ( Courtney Cox ) sense a big story & starts to hassle Sidney while Tatum's Brother Deputy ' Dewey ' ( David Arquette ) takes it upon himself to look out for Sidney . As the mystery deepens with Sidney's Father going missing & Sidney unsure of who to trust Tatum's boyfriend Stuart Macher ( Matthew Lillard ) organises a party with lots of potential teenage victims for the serial killer . . . Directed by Wes Craven who also has a small cameo as the Freddy Krueger inspired janitor , Scream is the horror film that made the genre popular again , the film which so many have tried to copy since . A fine film it is too . The script by Kevin Williamson plays around with all the slasher film clichés in a witty self referential sort of way . Scream is bursting at the seams with all the horror film in-jokes & homages , most people could probably watch Scream two or three times & still not spot them all . Like the horror film lover character Randy Meeks ( Jamie Kennedy ) who knows all the traditional slasher rules & plays them to the hilt like if your a virgin in a horror film you die . The dialogue also pokes fun at the genre in an affectionate way like when the killer mentions going outside by oneself to investigate a strange noise as being stupid ! It's great fun for horror fans , like myself , to try & spot all the references & mentions other classic horrors get . I thought the mystery element was great , Scream has plenty of red herrings & I was never sure who the killer was right up until the final effective reveal which is quite clever although the motive behind the murders is somewhat shallow & hardly surprising . I thought Scream dragged a little from after Casey was murdered for the next 40 odd minutes as no one dies at all , this witty & hip dialogue is all well & good to entertain up to a point but I would have liked a little more action as well . Technically Scream is as good as one could hope for on a relatively small $15 , 000 , 000 budget , director Craven creates some good set pieces & effective sequences especially the opening , the cinematography is very good , the music incorporates horror themes into itself particularly Halloween ( 1978 ) & as a whole Scream has that Hollywood polish about it . The violence & gore is restrained , a few stabbings & shootings plus Steven's guts spilling out at the start is about it , a little disappointing actually . The young attractive cast do a good job , Campbell makes for a likable enough ' scream queen ' for the 90's & Ulrich is great & has a cold emotionless look on occasion that coupled with is boyish good looks you are never quite sure if he's telling the truth or not , Arquette makes for a suitably goofy deputy & Cox is perfectly cast as the bitchy reporter , in reality after meeting each other on Scream Arquette & Cox later married . The sequel Sream 2 ( 1997 ) reunites all the surviving cast members & is also well worth watching if you enjoyed this . Overall Scream is a great horror film that has to some extent reinvented the genre & just about deserves it's already classic status although I have slight reservations about it's slow pace at times which is my only complaint with it as a whole . An absolute must for horror fans & definitely worth a watch for more general audiences too although some of the horror film humour may pass you by . Still , highly recommend !
Highly enjoyable 90's foul mouthed violent comedy action thriller .	The Last Boy Scout is set in Los Angeles where Joe Hallenebeck ( Bruce Willis ) works as a private detective , Joe gets a call from his best friend & fellow private detective Mike Matthews ( Bruce McGill ) offering him a job protecting a stripper named Cory ( Halle Berry ) . Later that morning Joe discovers that Mike is having an affair with his wife Sarah ( Chelsea Field ) but still accepts the job since he needs the cash , while keeping an eye on Cory he is attacked & knocked out & Cory is shot dead in front of her ex pro-football player boyfriend Jimmy Dix ( Damon Wayans ) . Affter being let go by the cops Joe & Jimmy team up to find out the truth behind Cory's murder & they discover a plot to legalise sports gambling & an attempt to assassinate a US senator . Up to their necks in trouble with people trying to kill them left , right & center as well as the cops after them Joe & Jimmy decide to save the day & take the bad guy's down . . . Directed by Tony Scott I will openly & freely admit that I have a real soft spot for The Last Boy Scout , I just think it's almost perfect at what it sets out to do & I find it a very entertaining film to just sit down & watch . I must have seen The Last Boy Scout a dozen times or so over the years & it never fails to entertain or make me laugh & there's not many films out there I can say that about , for instance I recently saw Face / Off ( 1997 ) again for the first time in years & I was extremely disappointed by how dull it was & that it just wasn't anywhere near as good I remembered it but watching The Last Boy Scout again last night it was definitely every bit as good as I remember it from when I first saw it all those years ago . There are several reasons why I like The Last Boy Scout so much , for a start it's one of those infinitely quotable films full of filthy foul mouth one-liners that are genuinely funny & never fail to at least raise a smile . The action is very violent & at times maybe a little too much emphasis is given on hurting people but the set-pieces which include car chases , shoot-outs , fights & explosions are fun & varied enough to stand out . The plot is a little weak & the main story about a corrupt senator & a businessman trying to legalise gambling is a bit lacklustre but the character's really make it work . Joe Hallenbeck the down on his luck , bitter & cynical detective is great as the hero , he has his flaws but that's good & you do end up really liking the guy by the end of the flick while the Jimmy Dix character is a more clichéd black partner to bounce jokes off type of guy but he holds his own & he too also becomes rather likable by the end although he never seems that upset about witnessing the love of his life Cory get viciously gunned down in front of him . The Last Boy Scout is a mix of some of the best bits & ideas from classic action flicks like Beverly Hills Cop ( 1984 ) , Lethal Weapon ( 1987 ) & Die Hard ( 1988 ) but that's no bad thing , I mean if your going to steal you might as well steal from the best , right ? The bad guy's aren't that good or overly memorable but nothings perfect I suppose . The films pace is a little slow to start with but the funny one-liners come thick & fast to keep one entertained . The violence is often excessive & there's a lot of killing , punching & general hurting of people . The action scenes are fairly well done although I am not sure how a car ends up falling straight down into a pool when it clearly has forward momentum as it launched itself off the roof of a house . The film is full of profanity & bad language so if you don't like swearing The Last Boy Scout is not the film for you although I never got the impression that it was swearing for the sake of swearing & most of the profanity is very funny . Apparently the original script was quite different as the entire last third of the film was to be set on water & Hallenbeck's grudge again the senator ( who was the President in the original script ) was different & the senator's son Louis ( who isn't even in the final shooting script ) was to be one of the main villains . Obviously blessed with a decent budget the production values are high & it's well made . Apparently music composer Michael Kamen hated The Last Boy Scout when he first saw it & only wrote & provided the score for it because of his personal friendship with Bruce Willis & producer Joel Silver . Bruce Willis is a likable guy & he was just born to lay these foul mouthed wisecracking hero types & puts in a great performance here while his buddy buddy partner Damon Wayans does fine too although I think a young Danielle Harris is also great as Joe's foul mouth daughter with an attitude . The Last Boy Scout is a real guilty pleasure from the 90's that holds up extremely well even today , it's go some great action , some hilarious one-liners that are guaranteed to have you quoting them to your mates & Bruce Willis probably the best action film star of recent times & any film that kills off the supremely untalented Halle Berry has got something going for it .
" It seems our mouse has turned into a rat . " Excellent , almost as good as the original .	Cube Zero starts , like the original , in the cube itself . A man named Ryjkin ( Jasmin Geljo ) enters a red room & is sprayed with acid which turns him into a puddle of blood , bones & bodily fluids on the floor . Two cube technicians watch on as Ryjkin becomes the latest victim of the cube , Eric Wynn ( Zachary Bennett ) starts to question the motives behind the cube even though his superior Dodds ( David Hubband ) tells him not to think about or question it . The cube has five new volunteers , Rains ( Stephanie Moore ) , Haskell ( Martin Roach ) , Meyerhold ( Mike ' Nug ' Nahrgang ) , Bartok ( Richard McMillan ) & Jellico ( Terri Hawkes ) who all must survive it's lethal bobby traps & try to figure a way out . Wynn starts to question the reasoning behind these people being in the cube especially Rains who opposes the government , he thinks that Rains might be there purely because of her political views . Wynn develops a conscience & sets out to save as many of the five as possible by entering the cube itself but his superiors , the men who really run the cube , aren't happy & send the sinister Jax ( Michael Riley ) to make sure no one makes it out of the cube alive . . . This Canadian production was co-executive produced , written & directed by Ernie Barbarash & I enjoyed it almost as much as the original Cube ( 1997 ) . I have read that Cube Zero is meant to be a prequel to the original , well I have absolutely no idea why anyone would think this as it makes no reference to anything that happens in Cube , this has no connection to it at all & if it was set 100 years after the original no one could argue . The script moves along at a great pace & is never boring or dull . The same fascination in how the people stranded in the cube are going to get out & the fascination in how the people who don't make it are going to die . At first I didn't like the fact that we know who is behind the cube but it grew on me & I liked how it all came together . I liked most of the character's especially the villain Jax , however I really disliked Rains the obligatory stereotypical ' strong female ' character . The film tries to say various things about big business & the workers who are there to merely push buttons , do as they are told & not think about it compared to the people in suits who wield absolute power over everything & everyone , even over life & death . Director Barbarash does what he can with limited sets , the film has a nice style & look to it although the rooms in the cube are different in appearance this time around compared with the original . There is some terrific gore in Cube Zero as well which helps , there's a cool scene at the start when a guy literally melts as messily as you can imagine into a puddle of goo , another cool bit where someone is sliced into little bits by razor wire , someone explodes & some impalement's . Technically Cube Zero is pretty impressive with nice production design & it's well made throughout . The special effects are good . The acting is fine & Riley as the bad guy is fun although Moore got on my nerves . I really liked Cube Zero , I didn't think I would as I also thought the original was a brilliant film & I couldn't see this being anywhere near as good but it was . If you liked the original then this is a must , if you didn't then avoid at all costs . Definitely worth a watch in my opinion .
Another fabulous Doctor Who DVD documentary .	Are Friends Electric ? is a 38 minute long documentary featured on the special edition DVD of the Doctor Who story Robot ( 1975 ) & a fine documentary it is as well . To start off with the documentary focuses on the change of Doctors between Jon Pertwee who left the role in the previous story Planet of Spiders ( 1974 ) at the end of the previous season & Tom Baker who took over the role in Robot . Various people are interviewed including producer Barry Letts , script editor Terrence Dicks & Tom Baker himself as they describe his getting the role from their own perspective . At this point Letts also mentions a few other actors who were in line to become the fourth Doctor & I have to admit I had never heard of any of them . After 20 odd minutes discussing Tom Baker's casting the documentary changes gear & focuses on the making of his first story Robot , again there's plenty of information & interviews with the cast including the guy who actually played the Robot & Christopher Barry the guy who directed the story . There are also some scenes from the Doctor Who museum in Blackpool where I presume the Robot suit has been kept as there are shots of it as it is today . There are enough clips , photos , anecdote's & personal insight to satisfy the most rabid of Doctor Who fans like myself & Are Friends Electric ? is one of my favourite DVD documentary's featured on the Doctor Who DVD range which is generally excellent & the only full price DVD's I bother buying these days . It's hard to imagine a time when Tom Baker wasn't universally known as the Doctor but there was & this documentary brilliantly tells the story of how it all came to be , how he got the part & ends on the admission regarding his overnight fame that he'd rather be rich & have no privacy than poor & anonymous which is fair enough I suppose . Are Friends Electric ? is an excellent DVD documentary , it's as simple & straight forward as that & is far better than one would expect & much better than the usual bland self promoting Hollywood ' making of ' documentary's . A great documentary on a great DVD for a great Doctor Who story .
A top psychological horror from the boys at Hammer .	Taste of Fear starts as a woman's body is pulled from a lake . . . Jump forward two weeks later as a wheelchair bound young lady named Penny Appleby ( Susan Strasberg ) touches down in France , she is met at the airport by Robert ( Ronald Lewis ) her father's chauffeur & is driven to his house . After not seeing her father for 10 years having lived with her mother until she recently drowned he invited her to live with him & his wife & her step-mom Jane ( Ann Todd ) who are now her only legal living relatives , however Jane says that her father suddenly left for work reasons a few weeks ago & has not returned . Penny becomes suspicious when investigating a light in their summerhouse she sees what she thinks is her father's dead body but then disappears shortly after , is Penny losing her mind or is something more sinister going on . . . Also known as Scream of Fear this British production was directed by Seth Holt & is a different sort of Hammer film than one might associate with the studio but is still one of their best films , period . The script by producer Jimmy Sangster is a well written & makes for an excellent & very effective psychological horror thriller . At only 80 odd minutes in length it moves along at a great pace but still manages to develop it's character's & it's engaging storyline . Then there's the really good twists which basically turns everyone & everything on it's head & completely reverses & twists almost everything that has gone before & while one might say what happens is implausible it makes for a terrific film . Director Holt does OK on what was probably a low budget , the film has a simple yet effective style to it & the 50's / 60's decor gives the film a nice look . Some of the sets don't overly convince that your in France all the time & Christopher Lee's French accent isn't great but the film has a nice atmosphere & manages to build up a fair amount of tension & intrigue . Don't expect any gore or violence as there isn't any as Taste of Fear relies on excellent storytelling rather than special effects . Technically the film looks nice enough with clean , crisp & clear black and white photography & generally speaking it's well made throughout . The acting is very good by a decent cast & despite his French accent Christopher Lee is somewhat underused . Taste of Fear is a great film & it's as simple & straight forward as that really , definitely worth a watch & highly recommend if you like your horror psychological .
" How often do girls blow their brains out in this shthole town ? " Enjoyable remake .	The Texas Chainsaw Massacre starts on ' August 18th , 1973 ' as five friends , lovers Erin ( Jessica Biel ) & Kemper ( Eric Balfour ) along with Andy ( Mike Vogel ) & Pepper ( Erica Leerhsen ) plus Morgan ( Jonathan Tucker ) who is all on his own romantically speaking , are on they're way back from a trip to Mexico . As they drive through the American countryside they almost hit a girl ( Lauren German ) wandering in the road so they stop & find her in a distressed state , they offer her a lift & they all drive off together . As they drive the girl becomes more agitated & scared at which point she then pulls a gun out & commits suicide , shocked the friends decide to go to the nearest town & report the incident to the police . It's not long before they come across a gas station where they try to report the suicide , this is just the start of a living nightmare for the friends as they soon discover that the locals aren't friendly including a huge guy known as Leatherface ( Andrew Bryniarski ) who likes to slice people up with a chainsaw . . . Directed by Marcus Nispel this is obviously a Hollywood remake of Tobe Hooper's 1974 classic The Texas Chainsaw Massacre which I personally think is an extremely overrated film & one that I don't actually like that much so would I be more impressed with this remake ? The answer is , quite simply , yes . In fact I'll go as far as to say I prefer this version in every single aspect & that it's become one of my favourite Hollywood horror films of the past few years . The script by Scott Kosar takes the basic premise of the original but adds enough variation & twists so that it's sufficiently different to stand on it's own . I liked some of the new elements , there's actually a decent reason why Leatherface wears a mask made of human skin & the whole hitchhiker scene from the original is altered plus this time around it is far better & much more effective , the new ideas actually add to the film & story & I also think it makes for a better flowing film . The script takes itself 100 % seriously so there's none of those lame self referential jokes that have littered teen horror since Scream ( 1996 ) , there's a time & place for stuff like that & The Texas Chainsaw Massacre remake isn't it & I'm glad the filmmakers agreed . The film moves along at a nice pace & is never boring & it actually seemed a very short film until I realised it lasted 100 minutes , it flew by it really did . I also really liked the police footage that bookend that film & the cool shock final shot which I thought was particularly effective . I really like this one & I'm not usually a big fan of Hollywood horror let alone remakes . Director Nispel does a great job , while the film looks a bit ' staged ' at times there's a great atmosphere & some great scenes . I loved a lot of the background detail like all the butchers hooks , jars of body parts , skin hanging from the ceiling , shafts of light that burst through gaps in the wall panels , the look of the house & Leatherface's basement chamber of horrors are spot on & it can be a pretty intense ride at times . The film seems shot with a slightly bleached colour scheme & that also works great , there is a cool shot just after the girl commits suicide where the camera zooms back through the hole in her head & out of the hole in the back window & continues to pull back . You always felt that the gore was probably going to be somewhat tame & there is gore here but more flashes than anything else , someone is impaled on a hook in reference to a corresponding scene in the original , there are various severed limbs & body parts , someone has their leg sawn off & the scene when the girl blows her brains out is pretty nasty . With a supposed budget of about $9 , 200 , 000 , which I don't think is big budget as far as Hollywood goes , The Texas Chainsaw Massacre is very well made & has great production values & special effects . The acting is surprisingly good as well , everyone plays it straight & put in a good performance . R . Lee Ermey as the Sheriff is intense . The Texas Chainsaw Massacre remake was a hell of a lot better than I was expecting , as probably just about the only person on the planet who doesn't like the original I'm sure there are many out there who will disagree with me but I think Chainsaw ' 03 is better than Chainsaw ' 74 in every way . I was impressed , definitely worth a watch for those with the stomach . The other Chainsaw films are , The Texas Chainsaw Massacre 2 ( 1986 ) which I think is a fantastic black comedy horror , the decent but not outstanding Letaherface : Texas Chainsaw Massacre III ( 1990 ) which tried to be serious again with mixed results , the truly awful The Return of the Texas Chainsaw Massacre ( 1996 ) & the soon to be released The Texas Chainsaw Massacre : The Beginning ( 2006 ) .
Great Masters of Horror episode .	Masters of Horror : Pro-Life starts as a 15 year old teenage girl named Angelique Burcell ( Caitlin Wachs ) runs through some woods , running from exactly what we're not sure but she runs out into the middle of a road & narrowly avoids being run down by a car driven by Dr . Alex O'Shea ( Mark Feuerstein ) . Mark & his passenger a nurse named Kim ( Emmanuelle Vaugier ) get out to help her , since they work at a nearby abortion clinic they insist Angelique goes with them to get checked out . Once there Alex & Kim realise there is something seriously wrong with Angelique as it comes to light she is pregnant , but this is no ordinary pregnancy as the baby or whatever it is inside her seems to be growing at an astonishing rate . Meanwhile outside Angeliques deeply religious father & anti abortion fantasist Dwayne ( Ron Perlman ) is outside the clinic's gates armed with lots of guns ready to do what he has too to get his daughter & grandchild back alive & well . . . This Canadian American co-production was episode 5 from season 2 of the generally hit-and-miss Masters of Horror TV series , the second of two masters of Horror episodes to be directed by John Carpenter after Cigarette Burns from season 1 I thought this was a hit , I thought it was excellent & I really liked it . The script by Drew McWeeny & Scott Swan is a sort of action based horror with a moral message that ends up making for terrific entertainment . The first thing to say is that Pro-Life does indeed preach a moral message about abortion & how passionate people are on both sides of the argument but thankfully it doesn't get in the way of what is otherwise a fantastic piece of horror , to be fair to it it doesn't make any moral judgement unlike Joe Dante's Masters of Horror episode Homecoming from season 1 & is nicely balanced between the pro & anti abortion camps as it lets you decide which side you want to take . The second thing to say about Pro-Life is that it doesn't forget it's core audience with a cracking twisted tale of demonic rape , mutant babies , shoot-outs , revenge & just plain nastiness & I for one loved it except for maybe a slightly unsatisfactory ending but what the hell nothings perfect right ? This is great stuff from start to finish that grips you & makes you want to watch it through to the end to see where it's going , it moves along at a great pace , it never lets up , it has some top exploitation moments in it , the character's & dialogue are both pretty strong & I thought it was a top 60 odd minutes that ranks right up there with the best Masters of Horror episodes . Director Carpenter does a fine job , there's some truly unpleasant imagery here as well as a nice moral message that when all said & done is pretty effective . There's not much in the way of scares but there's some good action scenes & there's plenty of tension . Just to see what Angelique will give birth to is a hook which draws you in on it's own . Gore wise Carpenter , Howard Berger , Gregory Nicotero & the boys at KNB effects don't disappoint , people literally have the tops of their heads blown off , someone is shot in the neck with blood spurting results , someone is shotgun blasted in the stomach complete with hanging guts in the aftermath , there's a monstrous baby which looks like it could have come from Carpenter's remake of The Thing ( 1982 ) & a very impressive devil monster demon thing which is very imposing & looks the absolute business . Technically Pro-Life is very good as most Masters of Horror episodes are , the special make-up effects are excellent especially the monster at the end & it has good production values throughout . The acting was good with Perlman standing out . Pro-Life has become one of my favourite Masters of Horror episodes & it's as simple & straight forward as that , I mean top gore coupled with a thought provoking message what more do you want ? If you like some substance with which to think about with your blood & gore then check this one out , well worth a watch .
Top comic book sequel to a top film .	Blade II starts as the half Vampire half human Vampire hunter Blade ( Wesley Snipes ) continues his 2 year long quest to find his friend Whistler ( Kris Kristofferson ) whom the Vampire race have held captive for that time after the events in the original Blade ( 1998 ) , Blade finally has tracked him down & frees him . One night back at his base a group of highly trained Vampires known as the ' Bloodpack ' infiltrate it & they deliver a message to Blade that the Vampire king Eli Damaskinos ( Thomas Kretschmann ) wants a truce between the two warring sides , Blade agrees & the Bloodpack takes him to their headquarters to speak with Damaskinos personally who wants Blade to help him & his race exterminate a new breed of Vampire known as a Reaper . This new type of Vampire needs to feed on fresh blood every few hours & preferably Vampire blood but once they have wiped the Vampie race out they will turn their attention to the human race , they are immune to silver & garlic & infect their prey with a virus that turns them into Reapers , in a matter of months the whole planet could be overrun with the things . It ' up to Blade & the Bloodpack to destroy the source of the virus , the original carrier named Jared Nomak ( Luke Goss ) before it's too late . . . This American German co-production was directed by Guillermo del Toro & is the second outing for the popular comic book character Blade , personally I think the original Blade is complete class & I was slightly worried by this sequel as I thought that it would be a huge disappointment but I'm happy to report that Blade II is almost as good as the original which was more than a little bit surprising . Anyway , David S . Goyer returns to pen the sequel & he does a fine job again as this time around he has more scope & money to play with as he makes everything that little bit bigger , louder & more ambitious . The film moves along like a rocket yet still manages to have a good story which has more to it than you may expect , the character's are good & the uneasy truce between Blade & the Vampires is well used & is always there as an undercurrent , there are a few twists & turns as people aren't quite what they first seem & things aren't quite as straight forward as they seem , there are also some neat ideas here particularly the Reapers themselves whose jaws split apart to reveal snake like tongues . I liked the ending which isn't the usual Hollywood ' happily ever after ' type thing & the script also does a good job of making the main villain Jared quite a sympathetic character who in essence is just a victim of his circumstances although deliciously evil at the same time . Overall I was very impressed with Blade II . Director Toro does a great job & while I can say this has a decent script with better character's & narrative than your average Hollywood no-brainer Blade II just wouldn't be any good if it were not for it's gore , violence , fights , chases , monsters , glamorous sleek chrome plated weaponry of various descriptions & it's cool attitude . Blade II has a fantastic look about it with great production design , it seems to alternate between dark run down decrepit sewers & back alleys to ultra sleek , modern & shiny scientific labs & complexes & it's a perfect mix & Toro manages to get the blend just about perfect , visually Blade II is top-notch . The weapons are suitably over-the-top & used to good violent effect throughout with the fights & action scenes extremely well choreographed & actually pretty exciting , the costumes are cool too with Leanor Varela standing out in her skin tight leather outfit at the end . There's plenty of blood & gore here , there's loads of the red stuff splashed around , there's plenty of disintegrating Vampires , people sliced in half , someone has the top of their head cut off , someone is blown up & there's a yucky autopsy scene . The body count in this must be pretty damned high . With a supposed budget of about $55 , 000 , 000 Blade II looks the absolute business & has that sleek ultra well made Hollywood polish to it with great cinematography , top special effects , the usual catchy techno music to accompany the numerous set-pieces & excellent production values . The acting is decent enough , Snipes as Blade is suitably emotionless & delivers the one-liners with the appropriate enthusiasm . Kristofferson puts in a good shift while Ron Perlman equally so , ex-boy band singer Luke Goss is an unexpected choice for but rather impressive bad guy , Varela makes for a nice looking love interest & Norman Reedus is good & pretty likable as Scud . Blade II is an absolute top action horror hybrid big budget popcorn film that's a very worthy sequel , it's as simple & straight forward as that . Make sure you watch it as soon as you can , followed by Blade : Trinity ( 2004 ) & Blade : The Series ( 2006 ) stars someone called Sticky Fingaz . . .
" If you want to get into bed with Quincy it's up to up . " The butchered 44 minute edit . . .	Quincy M . E . : . . . The Thigh Bone's Connected to the Knee Bone . . . starts as LA coroner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) gets ready to take a forensic pathology class at a local university , one of the students has brought in a thigh bone she found on a nearby building site for Quincy & the class to have a look at . Quincy's interest in immediately raised when he discovers not only is the bone human but show's signs of a nick which was probably caused by a bullet , attempts to find the rest of the bones at the building site fail & neither his boss Dr . Asten ( John S . Ragin ) or LA cop Lt . Monahan ( Garry Walberg ) are as convinced as Quincy the bones owner was murdered . Together with his enthusiastic students & his lab's equipment Quincy sets out to discover as much as he can about the bone , who it belonged to & if they were murdered . . . Episode 3 from season 2 this Quincy story was directed by Alex March & I have to say that this is perhaps the absolute quintessential Quincy episode that showcases everything that was great about the show . Before I carry on I have to say that I saw the butchered 44 minute version rather than the original 75 minute one , I presume these longer episodes ( which this was the last ) were edited down to the standard Quincy length for maybe repeat runs to bring them in line with future shorter episodes that were made after the 75 minutes ones or to conform to a specific one hour time slot , certainly here in the UK Quincy has always been shown in a standard weekly one hour time slot . Anyway , while I have never seen the longer edit of this one the short one works perfectly well & is one of my very favourite Quincy episodes that contain many of my favourite Quincy traits , the humour & banter between character's , the way he uses his medical skills & knowledge to reconstruct an entire person from one single bone , the way he solves a murder because of it , the way he fights bureaucracy including his own boss & the police force , the way he sticks up for & defends his own opinions & findings when all around him are questioning them , his obligatory impassioned speeches , the character relationships are just great with real chemistry & there's a really neat murder mystery plot here as well that grips & holds one interest right through to a good solid ending . Since this has over half an hour cut out of it one would hope it moves along at a nice pace & it certainly does , I'm not sure if the extra footage really changes the episode or whether anything vitally important was cut but it seemed fine to me & all the major plot points seem to be there & it makes perfect sense . The one thing that sticks out during this episode as a plot hole is that the killer managed to convince the victims father that his son volunteered for & was killed during fighting in the Vietnam war in 1957 , I'm not being funny here but the first U . S . combat troops didn't arrive in Vietnam until 1965 . . . This one also has some horrible opening credits which omit the ' gentlemen you are about to enter the most fascinating . . . ' speech at the start & an episode of Quincy without that just seems odd to me , I'm not sure if the rest of season 2 also used these credits though . The acting is alright although it's Klugman again who is just brilliant in the role , I also have to mention Asten & the horribly dated hat he wears at the start as it looks ridiculous ! . . . The Thigh Bone's Connected to the Knee Bone . . . is brilliant Quincy , from the fascinating medical techniques he uses to uncover & solve a murder to everything that makes Quincy great as a series , it's all here although bear in mind I saw the 44 minute edit . . .
One of season 7's best .	Quincy M . E . : Expert in Murder has L . A . county coroner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) ready to testify in a murder trial where a powerful mob boss Victor Ramsay is accused of scaring someone to death & Quincy's medical evidence is crucial to the D . A . ' s case along with the evidence of another witness . However Joseph Ramsay ( Peter Virgo Jr . ) the devious son of Victor has other ideas , he has one witness brutally murdered & has various incriminating evidence left at the scene including a stocking mask with skin & blood fragments along with the gun which Lt . Monahan ( Garry Walberg ) discovers is registered to a Mr Miles whose blood & skin also matches that found at the murder scene . It looks like an open & shut case but during the trial Miles comes up with a bullet proof alibi & Quincy's name along with his medical findings are discredited which could affect the Ramsay case , it could set a killer free & destroy Quincy's reputation as a coroner . . . Episode 20 from season 7 ( not episode 20 from season 6 as the IMDb would have you believe , they have mixed up the dates between this episode & Deadly Protection which aired on the / 82 & was actually episode 23 of season 7 because Expert in Murder was episode 20 , got that ? Good ) this Quincy story was directed by Michael J . Kane & I personally think it's one of the best stories from this moral & social issue filled season . I like the show best when Quincy is solving crimes & dealing in murder so I prefer episodes like Expert in Murder where does he not only have a murder on his hands but he himself becomes part of the crime & since I like the character so much it makes the story just that bit more heartfelt . I just like seeing Klugman run around getting angry & shout at everyone , I liked the simple yet engaging plot as Quincy has to save his own reputation , at only an hour this one moves along at a nice pace as usual & there isn't a dull moral or social issue in sight ! I thought Expert in Murder was a great episode which in tone feels more like the bullish crime fighting Quincy that I love watching so much . I must admit I'm not overly convinced by some of the medical procedures here like not being able to identify who specifically a blood sample came from which I guess is down to the fact it's a quarter of a century old & forensic techniques have come a long way since this was made , it still makes for good entertainment & that's part of it's charm but it is a touch difficult to take seriously these days . There's a decent enough cast here & Joseph Sirolla makes another appearance as D . A . Sal Angeletti after his character was in Into the Murdering Mind six episodes ago . Expert in Murder is one of the best stories from season 7 that ditches any moral or social issues & concentrates on what Quincy does best , solve crimes , make impassioned speeches & shout at people . Definitely well worth a watch if your a fan or want to pass an hour .
Excellent classic Quincy .	Quincy M . E . : Double Death starts as the Los Angeles county coroner's office is inundated after a fire at the Cresent Club has killed fifteen people who all need to be identified , Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) , Sam ( Robert Ito ) & Dr . Asten ( John S . Ragin ) are rushed off their feet but get the job done under enormous pressure . Once the work is complete Quincy argues with Asten that they are understaffed & they are ill equipped to deal with such emergencies & storms off , Asten himself is about to leave when another body comes in that was initially missed & Asten decides to do the autopsy himself . The body turns out to be the owner of the club Mike Ryan & Lt . Monahan ( Garry Walberg ) is desperate to pin his murder & the fire to local gangster Solly Arkoff ( Joseph Perry ) & Asten's findings seem to pint to murder which the DA act on . However the next morning Quincy takes a look at Ryan's body & comes to a different conclusion that could ruin Asten's reputation & set Arkoff free . . . Episode 18 from season 3 this Quincy story was directed by Robert Douglas & I have to say that Double Death is one of my very favourite Quincy episodes . It has everything that makes the show so great for me , it has a good storyline with lots of mystery elements , Quincy turns detective to solve a crime using his medical & forensic skills , the regulars character's are spot on , at fifty minutes it moves along at a nice pace , the eventual outcome is in the balance right up until the end , the case provides a very personal edge for Quincy & it's hilariously funny at times . The scenes when Quincy meets the apartment manager are pure gold , the apartment manager never says anything other than ' yeah ' & it becomes a funny running gag . Sure the script makes sure Quincy ask's questions that could simply have ' yeah ' answers but it's still very funny & a true classic Quincy moment . Then there's the scene towards the end when Quincy visits a seedy strip club complete with 70's porn music , a go-go dancer on stage & a black jive speaking DJ ! Really funny stuff but an important factor is that you laugh with it rather than at it , one of the funniest episodes from Quincy's entire eight season run I would say . Then there's the subplot about Quincy having to rescue Asten's reputation in court from a rushed autopsy & while there's never any doubt that he will it gives the episode another good angle as it involves character's who any fan of the show will be familiar with . All in all Double Death is a very good , very funny & very entertaining Quincy episode which I throughly recommend . I must admit I didn't think the go-go dancers looked that nice & for a strip club they kept too many clothes on . As usual the episode is well made & shot but rather bland & forgettable , it's competent but little else . The acting is good in this one & it's always great to see Klugman on top form trying to find the truth & the scenes with him & the apartment manager ( played by Frank Campanella who appeared in five Quincy episodes as a guest star ) who only says ' yeah ' are very funny . Double Death is one of my favourite Quincy episodes , it's very funny & there's a great mystery plot as well that Quincy has to use his skills to solve . It's all here , everything that made the show so great , definitely recommend .
Great Quincy episode .	Quincy M . E . : No Deadly Secret starts late one Californian night around 3AM as Los Angeles coroner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) is entertaining a stewardess named Louise ( Elaine Joyce ) on his boat , suddenly he hears a knocking sound on deck so he goes to investigate . Up top he finds his close friend Carl Hopwood near death , Quincy rushes him to the nearest hospital but Carl dies before he gets there . Quincy then takes the body to the morgue to perform an autopsy , afterwards he falls asleep on a couch in the office . The following morning & Sam ( Robert Ito ) wakes Quincy who then enquires about the test results for Carl , Sam says the toxicology lab doesn't have any samples to test & that Carl Hopwood's body is nowhere to be found & there is no paperwork to support the fact he was ever brought in . Quincy realises someone has gone to a lot of trouble to cover up Carl's death & he is determined to find out why but nobody believes him & without a body where does he even start ? Episode 1 from season 3 this Quincy story was directed by Jackie Cooper & was a terrific way to kick off the third season , No Deadly Secret has to be one of the best Quincy episodes ever . For a start there's plenty of twists & turns that will keep you guessing & for a cheap quickly produced detective show it's surprisingly clever & I doubt anyone will figure the twist ending out . I love the murder mystery story here , the fact that Quincy performs an autopsy while nobody is at the lab & the body & all the records go missing so no-one even believes him that there was a body in the first place . It's a fantastic hook to draw you into the story & keep you interested , there's also plenty of time for Quincy to have lots of arguments with everyone & this one even has time to cram in a moral message at the end about letting the people know the truth & that cover ups are a bad thing ! I just think No Deadly Secret has everything I love about Quincy as a series in it's 50 odd minute duration , it has an intriguing murder mystery , Quincy shouting at people , humour , a fast pace , an unexpected twist ending which works extremely well , Quincy having to believe in himself while those around him doubt him & use his medical skills , expertise & knowledge to solve a mystery & although it does have a moral message it doesn't get bogged down with it . It's all here , one the show's finest 50 minutes . For some odd reason the opening narration of Quincy saying ' Gentlemen you are about to enter the mos . . . ' is not present although the footage of the cops witnessing the autopsy & fainting still is , it's strange because some episodes during season 3 feature the narration while other's don't . All the regulars are on top form here , Dr . Asten , Lt . Monahan & Sam although Danny doesn't feature at all & of course Klugman is just magnificent as the cranky but lovable coroner who continues to date women who are young enough to be his daughter . . . No Deadly Secret is a top , top Quincy story , it's a fantastic murder mystery which will keep you guessing until the twist end & then surprise you . One of the very best episodes from this quality show , a must for fans & anyone else who likes these detective drama mysteries .
One of the best Quincy episodes . . . ever .	Quincy M . E . : No Way to Treat a Body starts as Los Angeles chief medical examiner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) helps his latest young enough to be his daughter girlfriend Jenny Drake ( Marj Dusay ) move into ' Ruth's Rooming House ' where she has rented an apartment , Quincy is horrified to see the large house resemble something out of a horror film but Jenny says it's cheap . That night Jenny's dog Harold disappears upstairs into the attic , Jenny chases him & discovers two twenty year old mummified bodies hidden up there . Quincy is on the case & performs autopsies to determine who they were & how they died , then the next day Jenny finds another two bodies hidden in the house . After autopsies Quincy finds that three died of natural causes but one was murdered , Quincy & Lt . Monahan ( Garry Walberg ) are determined to uncover the truth . . . Episode 8 from season 4 this Quincy story was directed by Ron Satlof & is maybe my all time personal favourite episode of Quincy & there's a lot of great episodes to choose from . No Way to Treat a Body has everything that makes Quincy the show it is , it's extremely funny & humorous with several oddball residents & bizarre goings on , Asten is funny in this trying to denote the mummified bodies to a local museum & get his name on a silver plaque , there's plenty of mystery & intrigue , there's the traditional murder case to solve , the storyline is something a little bit different than the norm for these 70's US detective show's , there's a fantastic & varied performance by Klugman , it has a fast pace & several mummified bodies in an attic . What more do you want ? I must admit No Way to Treat a Body made me laugh on many occasions with some quirky & funny events along with some funny people & dialogue . The murder mystery angle is well done & the eventual outcome is quite poignant & not that obvious . The story has a great hook to draw you in , when the bodies are found I was intrigued to find out who they were , how they got there & what happened to them . There are many memorable & magical little touches , many highly amusing scenes ( like the huge blonde Amazon nurse who won't let Monahan & Quincy question a patient ! ) & a great story which I think is both original & highly entertaining . It only lasts for fifty minutes ( without commercials ) so it's not going to take long to see either , there are certainly worse ways to spend fifty minutes than watch this . The house that Jenny moves into looks like it belongs in The Munsters ( 1964 - 1966 ) or The Addams Family ( 1964 - 1966 ) & I doubt I would want to live there . There are a few cobweb strewn attic type scenes that look like they belong in a horror film which are quite nicely done . I also think there are a couple of nods to Psycho ( 1960 ) here as well with mummified bodies & the like . The acting is very good here by pretty much everyone in it . Star Ed Begley Jr makes the second of his three Quincy appearances as a hippie type called Speed ! No Way to Treat a Body is a wonderful Quincy episode , if your a fan of the show & it's humour & quirks then your going to love this . However if you don't like the show then your probably going to hate it ( although I think you will need a heart of stone not to enjoy it on some level ) & it's as simple as that really . Probably my favourite Quincy episode , what higher recommendation do you need ?
Really fun episode .	Quincy M . E . : New Blood starts as Dr . Robert Asten ( John S . Ragin ) forces Los Angeles chief medical examiner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) to take some of his outstanding vacation time . As his replacement Asten calls in pathologist Dr . Jerri McCracken ( Beverly Adams ) who has her hands full straight away when a controversial councilman running for Governor named Lawrence Bridges ( James Callahan ) is found dead , her initial finds suggest a heart attack but the results also suggest that the body had been moved & placed at the bottom of some stairs to make it look like an accident . Learning of the situation Quincy can't help but take a look at the case which irritates McCracken as he insinuates she can't handle it , eventually they decide to work together to discover the truth . . . Episode 18 from season 5 this Quincy story was directed by John Peyser & is a really fun episode that I enjoyed a lot & thankfully a huge improvement on the previous story The Winning Edge ( 1980 ) which was terrible . Here in New Blood there's a great story about Quincy getting upset when an attractive woman gets his job while he is on vacation & he gets all sexist & says she isn't up to the job while she argues that she is . These scenes between Quincy & McCracken arguing are a lot of fun actually , then they eventually decide to work together & solve the case . I mean it is Quincy's show after all isn't it ? He ultimately is the one who cracks the case which is fine , he's the star so he gets to solve the crime & get the glory ! Besides McCracken is just a woman , she could never have handled it on her own ! The whole episode is a little sexist actually & I must admit I rather liked that , in today's ultra PC world an episode such as New Blood probably wouldn't get made now . Then Quincy the sly old dog not only solves the case & makes McCracken respect him he actually gets her in the end as well as they both go off on his boat ! Other than the fun plot revolving around the personality clash between Quincy & McCracken there's a pretty good murder mystery here in this episode as well , there are some decent twists & turns & the killer isn't too obvious either so a good fun , amusing , entertaining & enjoyable episode all round really . What more do you want ? Here in New Blood the glamour is provided by pathologist Jerri McCracken & she looks quite nice in a 70's sort of way , I am surprised the production team never asked her to come back as I thought she was a good character & a good foil for Quincy . Bizarrely in New Blood Lt . Monahan puts a pair of glasses on to read a piece of paper which is odd because he has never wore glasses before or since that I can remember so quite why he wears a pair here in this single scene is a mystery . The acting is good as usual , Klugman shines as always while veteran TV actor Dennis Haysbert better known as the President in the series " 24 " makes an early screen appearance . New Blood is a great Quincy episode full of fun & a little 70's sexism that I personally found rather amusing , the murder mystery element of the programme isn't too bad either . Classic Quincy at it's finest .
" This guy's been zapped by the brain police ! " Classic camp Quincy !	Quincy M . E . : Next Stop , Nowhere starts at the Underground Zero nightclub where a punk rock band called Mayhem are playing to a crowd of stoned punks , one such stoned punk named Zack decides to some ' slam dancing ' & ends up with an ice pick in the back of his neck & shortly after on L . A . coroner Quincy's ( Jack Klugman ) autopsy table . It's a clear case of murder & Lt . Monahan ( Garry Walberg ) already has the murder weapon with prints so catching the culprit shouldn't be too difficult . Then Quincy's woman-friend Dr . Emily Hanover ( Anita Gillette ) says she knew Zack's girlfriend Abigail Garvin ( Melora Hardin ) & was counselling her , she also tells Quincy of the depressing & negative punk rock music these kids listen to that preach murder , suicide & hate . Quincy is shocked & puts down punk music as a contributory cause of death on Zack's coroners report which attracts the attention of the local media , Quincy has to defend his opinions & findings or risk his reputation . . . Episode 8 from season 8 this Quincy story was directed by Ray Danton & is a true Quincy classic although not necessarily for the right reasons . The whole notion of a 60 plus year old Quincy speaking out against punk music & it's spaced out teenage followers is amusing enough on it's own but the music itself , the lyrics , the dialogue between the punks & Quincy , the story , the talk show sequence , the clothes & make-up the punks wear & the nightclub scenes all add up to make Next Stop , Nowhere one of the funniest so bad it's absolutely hilarious TV experiences I've ever had the undisputed pleasure of viewing . This episode is a complete hoot from start to finish , it's hard to describe & it's one of those episodes where words just can't do it justice . Besides venting much anger & frustration at punk music Quincy actually has a murder to solve in this one as well unlike much of season 8 so everyones a winner , there's the moralistic social message side of the story & a solid crime mystery to go with it . What more do you want ? At only 60 odd minutes in length this moves along like a rocket & is great fun to watch in an unintentionally funny in an embarrassing sort of way . The clothes & make-up the punks wear in this are just hilarious , the nightclub scenes of Mayhem performing & various punks ' slam dancing ' are obviously the work of a genius . . . The whole show is just so camp & over-the-top . This is great & the fact it takes itself so seriously just adds to the entertainment value . Some of the guest stars here are terrible but who cares ? The final scene set in Danny's when Quincy & Emily start dancing to some classic ballad music is so syrupy , sugary & sweet it would make a diabetic explode at 20 feet ! Next Stop , Nowhere is classic Quincy & is just about as good as anything in season 8 but not for the right reasons , anyway this is absolutely hilarious TV & it's got Quincy in it making several passionate speeches & getting increasingly angry which makes it even better !
" We should have gone to Hawaii . . . " Excellent Quincy episode .	Quincy M . E . : Murder on Ice starts mere hours after Los Angeles coroner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) & psychiatrist Dr . Emily Hanover ( Anita Gillette ) tied the knot & got married . After a send off in Danny's with some Baked Alaska & Champangne the happy couple set off on their honeymoon , originally meant to be Hawaii one of Quincy's friends Judge Julian Blake has offered Quincy & Emily the exclusive use of his winter lodge where they intend to spend a romantic week skiing & relaxing in the front of open log fires . However once there the couple find out they are not alone , Deputy D . A . Liz McKenna ( Lola Albright ) , LADP Lieutenant Ken Spool ( Robert Alda ) & homicide Sgt . Herb Gleason ( Dane Clark ) have also all been lured there under false pretences . Judge Blake's wife Dorothy ( Ann Blyth ) is also there & knows nothing of why they have been summoned there , mild curiosity soon turns to terror as Judge Blake's dead body is discovered & with the roads blocked by snow the unwilling guests are stranded with a killer . . . Episode 19 from season 8 this Quincy story was directed by Mel Ferber & was the show directly after Quincy got married where he is supposed to be on his honeymoon , but wouldn't you just know it he gets caught up in a complex murder mystery where he is a potential target . Trouble just follows this guy around doesn't it ? I have to start off by saying Murder on Ice is a great Quincy episode , a lot of season eight has been really bad with a lot of show's devoted to boring moral issues but Murder on Ice is a terrific murder mystery set in an isolated log cabin . There are several twists at the end which come a little quickly but for the most part this is a really good Agatha Christie style whodunit even down to the end when Quincy calls everyone involved with the case into the living room to explain all the how's , why's & where's to them & expose the murderer . There's also a touch of 80's slasher horror film with it's killer on the loose stalking people in an isolated location style storyline , I liked it & thought it was one of the very best Quincy episodes I've seen & probably the best from a generally disappointing season eight . The character's are decent , Emily didn't get in the way too much but I wasn't sure about the mute servant Max ! This is one of those infrequent episodes where the traditional laboratory setting doesn't feature at all & Quincy has to live on his wits as he ends up making a microscope from bit & pieces he finds lying around & performing an autopsy with a razor blade . The log cabin setting makes a nice change from the laboratory & it's good to get Quincy out of Los Angeles , it's actually a very nice location & the cabin looks great as well . There's a real sense of isolation which was essential if the story was going to work . There are three murders in this although not by who you would initially imagine & the twist at the end isn't that predictable which makes for a nice change . There's also a surprisingly action packed snowmobile chase sequence near the end which at times felt like it belonged in a James Bond film ! Murder on Ice is maybe the only Quincy episode where the cheesy comedy moment at Danny's happens at the very start rather than the very end . The acting is pretty good . Murder on Ice is one of the best Quincy episodes ever , it's a cracking old school whodunit with a twist or two that I doubt most will see coming , in fact at times it tries to be a bit too clever & there's even a snowmobile chase . What more do you want ? If your a fan of the show or murder mysteries in general then Murder on Ice is quite simply essential viewing .
" Your not seriously trying to tell me my patient is a zombie ? " Fantastic , atmospheric early 40's horror .	I Walked with a Zombie starts in Canada where a nurse named Betsy Connell ( Frances Dee ) is offered a job in which she would have to travel to an island named St . Sebastian in the West Indies to care for Jessica Holland ( Christine Gordon ) the invalid wife of a plantation owner named Paul ( Tom Conway ) , she accepts the position . Once there Betsy discovers that Jessica has no will or mind to call her own as she just walks & stares into space , nothing else . As the days pass Betsy begins to hear stories about how Jessica ended up in the state that she has , Dr . Maxwell ( James Bell ) claims a tropical disease that damaged her spinal cord while she also hears tales of Voodoo curses & the like . Betsy feels sorry for the Holland's , when medical science fails to provide a cure & not knowing what to believe anymore she turns to the ancient tribal Voodoo rituals of the natives to try & cure Jessica . . . Directed by Jacques Tourneur & produced by the legendary Val Lewton for RKO pictures I Walked with a Zombie is one of the finest early horrors out there that I have seen , if not the finest . The script by Curt Siodmak & Ardel Wray is apparently based on the novel ' Jane Eyre ' by Charlotte Bronte & is wonderfully structured , there is always a fine between the real cause of what has happened to Jessica , whether it's sinister Voodoo or something more mundane like disease . Maybe Paul was responsible out of revenge because Jessica wanted to leave him for his half-brother Wesley ( James Ellison ) or maybe their mother ( Edith Barrett ) didn't want Jessica to break the family apart , the superbly written dialogue really helps to keep things murky & interesting . The story is strong although it's up to the viewer to decide in the end , I liked the openness of I Walked with a Zombie . The love affair between Paul & Betsy is a bit abrupt & unrealistic but I suppose it could happen . On the negative side not that much actually happens & if your looking for hordes of flesh eating zombies then forget it , it's not even made totally clear whether Jessica is a zombie . Director Tourneur does a marvellous job here & creates some wonderful atmosphere throughout using light & shadow to fantastic effect , I absolutely loved the shots of Jessica & Betsy walking through the cane field at night as the wind blew & ruffled the crop & their long elegant dresses , I could almost feel the cold chill of that wind in my front room . The spooky tower with it's spiral staircase , the Voodoo rituals & more besides . I Walked with a Zombie is a very visual film that evokes emotion , I loved the look & feel of it . Forget about any violence , just a hanging animal but that's not what I Walked with a Zombie is about . Technically the film is a good as any from 1943 can be , sure it may not impress too many people these days but I think a lot of time & effort was put into I Walked with a Zombie & is far superior to most horror films from this period that I have seen . The acting is OK although some of it is a bit wooden by the supporting cast members , Gordon as Jessica doesn't say a word during the film yet you still feel for her . I Walked with a Zombie is surely a true classic of the genre & I wholeheartedly recommend it to all horror fans & anyone else who enjoys well written , well made films . Having said that if you want explosions , blood , bad language , computer effects every few minutes & can't sit through a black and white film then I Walked with a Zombie is not for you . A bit of a gem .
The English censor's favourite film . . . not . Classic Italian cannibal flick with a message !	Cannibal Holocaust starts in New York City where anthropologist Professor Harold Monroe ( Robert Kerman ) works , together with New York University & a TV station Monroe sets up an expedition to the Amazon jungle in Colombia where four documentary filmmakers vanished without trace in an attempt to find out what happened to them . Director Alan Yates ( Carl Gabriel York ) his girlfriend & writer Faye Daniels ( Francesca Ciardi ) along with two cameramen Jack Anders ( Perry Pirkanen ) & Mark Tomaso ( Luca Barbareschi ) plus their guide Felipe ( Ricardo Fuentes ) were last seen heading into the jungle in search of cannibalistic tribes , together with his guide Monroe retraces the four filmmakers steps & discovers the cans of film that they shot . Back in New York Monroe develops the film which show's shocking footage of all sorts of atrocities & reveals what happened to the filmmakers . . . This Italian production directed by Ruggero Deodato & one could make the argument that Cannibal Holocaust is thematically the most interesting & thought provoking of all the Italian cannibal flicks although I also could see why someone might label it as cheap gross exploitation just like any other Italian cannibal flick . Personally I think it's a really great film , it's certainly more intelligent & challenging than just about any other Italian cannibal flick but that on it's own may not be enough for most people to enjoy it . The mainstream film that Cannibal Holocaust most resembles is The Blair Witch Project ( 1999 ) which have very similar story lines . The script by Gianfranco Clerici ask's questions & uses it's premise & gut munching gore & exploitation to try & get it's point across . The basic aim of Cannibal Holocaust is to make us , the audience , question who the real savages , primitives & cannibals are since the four documentary filmmakers are portrayed as the villains rather than the cannibals . This is fine but one has to say that in that case Cannibal Holocaust comes across as rather hypocritical , the film seemingly condemns the documentary makers for killing animals & exploiting the natives for their own ends but in reality that is exactly what Cannibal Holocaust as a film & it's makers do . There are scenes of various animals being graphically mutilated & killed , there are voyeuristic scenes showing cannibals at work eating flesh & sequences showing inhuman & ancient tribal rites just to add to the violence & gore levels . It's just odd that as a film Cannibal Holocaust & it's makers condemn the very acts that make the film what it is & seem to take great pleasure in showing the audience . Having said that it does have a very strong well thought out story , it's very watchable & it one of those films which you can't help but look at whether your enjoying it or not , the character's are good & the dialogue is surprisingly good for a dubbed Italian cannibal flick as well . Not for everyone but for those with the stomach then Cannibal Holocaust is a must . Director Deodato does a nice job , shot on location in New York & the Amazon this looks authentic although once you see one bit of Amazonian jungle you've seen them all ! At the time of Cannibal Holocaust's release in Italy the film was banned & director Deodato was charged with obscenity & unbelievably murder ! Facing life in prison Deodato simply contacted the actor's involved & presented them in court , case dismissed & I bet the police felt like idiots ! Apparently at the time Cannibal Holocaust was made director Deodato didn't care about the animal killings or cannibal scenes but has since gone on record as saying he now wishes he never made the film . There are real animal killings in Cannibal Holocaust , they are explicit & I would expect many to find them upsetting . On a personal level I couldn't give a toss that real animals were killed in Cannibal Holocaust , that will probably outrage some but that's the way I feel . Millions of animals are killed in slaughter houses everyday , what's the different ? Ironically the killings & executions seen in the The Last Road to Hell segment are supposed to be fake but are real while the killings in the film proper which are meant to be real are fake ! The gore levels are high but fairly well spread out , there's cannibal intestine eating scenes , decapitated heads , people impaled on sticks , a leg is chopped off with a machete & character's are sliced up . With a supposed budget of about $100 , 000 Cannibal Holocaust is very well made with an often gritty documentary film look about it which suits the film perfectly . The acting is strong from most of the cast although dubbed it's better dubbed than most Italian exploitation flicks . Cannibal Holocaust is a notorious film , it's an acquired taste for sure but for those who crave extreme cinema , exploitation & gore then you are almost certain to enjoy it . If not then your not . Like many classic horror films Hollywood has decided to remake it as Cannibal Holocaust ( 2009 ) but I can't see it being anywhere near as effective as this .
" Dead pigs is just bacon . . . " Classic Quincy episode , one of the ones everyone remembers .	Quincy M . E . : Riot starts as Los Angeles medical examiner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) & his laboratory assistant Sam ( Robert Ito ) are called away from their card game at Danny's by their boss Dr . Asten ( John S . Ragin ) . There's a delicate situation at the county prison , an inmate named Ray Stone has been found dead , seemingly beaten to death by a sadistic guard named Bull Stewart ( Taylor Lacher ) while in isolation . Quincy & Sam get down there & examine the crime scene , however news of Stone's death at the hands of a prison guard gets spread around the prison & major league psycho Ed Burley ( Marc Alaimo ) orchestrates a riot in which the inmates take control of the prison & hold the prison guards & Quincy & Sam as hostages . With tensions rising both inside the prison & outside with Warden Tompkins ( John Milford ) refusing to negotiate a way must be found to diffuse the situation before someone gets killed . . . Episode 14 from season 5 this Quincy story was directed by Rod Holcomb & is one of my personal favourite classic Quincy episodes , I think Riot is one of the episodes that people remember even if they aren't a particularly huge fan of the series . I liked Riot on various levels , for a start in keeping with a lot of season five the main action takes place out of the standard laboratory setting & the majority of the episode is spent in the prison which gives this one a bit of variety . Then there's the funny dialogue , even those these prisoners are hardened criminals like killers , robbers , rapists & the like since Quincy is a TV show they can't swear ! Some of the ' tough guy ' dialogue is truly hilarious to listen to when viewed in 2008 , the harshest thing any of the cons can say is to call the prison guards pigs ! The way someone can coolly say something like ' this could be a real bad scene ' & played absolutely straight is really funny & entertaining in equal measure . You really have to listen to this one to really get what I am saying . Then there's even a decent plot twist as well , just when it seems that Bull Stewart was responsible for Stone's death it turns out he wasn't & there's actually a neat little murder mystery for Quincy & Sam to solve . The resolution of the riot is a little sheepish for my liking , I mean all the prisoners just decide to give up like nice little boy's ? Do you think that would really have happened ? I must admit I am sceptical . . . At only fifty odd minutes this one moves along like a rocket , there's another cheesy comedy moment ending at Danny's , there's another fine performance from Klugman although some of the supporting cast aren't quite as impressive & hike up the unintentional comedy aspect while the production team are still using the same static photo of Quincy's car parked outside Danny's that they have since the fist season ! Either that or Quincy parks in the same spot to the absolute millimetre every time he visit's Danny's ! Riot is quite well made & there are shots from the roof of the prison looking down on the various police cars & such which are very jerky for some reason . The initial riot is never shown , the inmates are seen discussing it & then when Quincy & Sam are about to leave they find out the prison has been completely taken over . Riot is classic Quincy at it's best , it's highly entertaining in a slightly dated but very fun sort of way & there's even a solid murder mystery behind the main action . A great episode from a generally very strong season .
Great Quincy episode .	Great Quincy episode . Rating 8 This comment may contain spoilers Quincy M . E . : Requiem for the Living starts late one night as Los Angeles chief medical examiner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) & his assistant Sam ( Robert Ito ) are finally able to leave the laboratory after a long day & head to Danny's for a game of poker with the boy's . However while in the parking lot Quincy & Sam are taken hostage at gunpoint by mob boss Vincent DiNardi ( John Vernon ) , escorted back into the laboratory DiNardi reveals that he has just found out he is dying from lung disease & has less than twenty four hours to live , DiNardi claims that he has been poisoned & that he wants Quincy to perform an autopsy on himself while still alive to determine the cause of the poisoning & who was responsible at which point DiNardi will order that persons death as one final act of revenge . . . Episode 20 from season 3 Requiem for the Living was the final episode of the third season of Quincy & it was a cracking last episode , directed by Rowe Wallerstein this is yet another story which proves how versatile the premise of Quincy actually was & how varied the stories could actually be & certainly during it's first five or six season were . The main gimmick of Requiem for the Living is that Quincy is ordered to perform an autopsy on a living person rather than a cadaver which is a nice twist & one that the series used a number of times as during the eight season run Quincy autopsied animals including horses & goldfish , Egyptian Mummies , murder cases , suicides & even nothing more than a few bones . I enjoy the crime based Quincy episodes much more than the moralistic ones & it's great that there's a murder mystery element here , there's the personal threat as Sam & Quincy are held hostage at gunpoint & there's even a nice little twist at the end which I for one didn't see coming , the killers motives are not exactly brilliant ( why kill someone who has just brought you an entire apartment complex ? ) but it's only a fifty minute episode , what do you want ? This one has a great pace about it , there's some nice interplay & dialogue between Quincy & DiNardi as he tries to convince Quincy that despite his line of work & who he is he is an honourable man . All in all a great episode that Quincy fans should love . As usual this episode of Quincy is not going to win any awards for style but the terrific story more than makes up for the slightly dull visuals . Set almost entirely in the laboratory , we never actually find out what happens to Chuck the security guard . He isn't shown being rescued so maybe poor old Chuck starved to death tied up as everyone forgot about him & his skeleton is lying around somewhere in the Los Angeles county coroner's office ready to be discovered & have a Quincy like pathologist poke around it trying to figure out if it was murder . . . There's some great casting here as the late prolific John Vernon plays the heavy role he is so good at although I can't decide if I liked him better in Requiem for the Living or the amazingly loopy & brilliant Killer Klown from Outer Space ( 1988 ) , Jack Klugman as Quincy is superb as usual but I come to expect no less from such a terrific actor . Requiem for the Living is an absolutely terrific classic episode of Quincy with a great plot , a solid murder mystery where the victim is still alive & some good twists which help make this one of my favourite Quincy episodes .
The best episode from season six .	Quincy M . E . : Stain of Guilt starts with Los Angeles medical examiner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) moonlighting in Hollywood as a technical adviser on a film dramatising the infamous case of Victoria Sawyer ( Carolyn Jones ) murdering her husband Harland several years earlier . While examining actual crime scene photo's in order to set the scene properly Quincy notices discrepancies between the police reports & what was said to have happened & the blood splatter evidence contained in the photo's . Quincy talks to Victoria who has spent the last six years in San Remos women's prison & is convinced she is innocent , taking his suspicions to the DA ( William Harrison ) his ideas are rejected as too flimsy but that doesn't stop him as Quincy is determined to catch the real killer & free an innocent woman . . . Episode 8 from season 6 this Quincy story was directed by Ray Danton I have to say that I personally think Stain of Guilt is the best single episode from the sixth season by a fair margin . Stain of Guilt is yet another new type of story for Quincy & it just show's how versatile the format of the show was , I found this a fascinating episode & a real forerunner of show's like CSI in which it's not so much the autopsy that solves the case but all the little tell tale clues left at the crime scene which paints the picture of what happened . From tiny blood splatter patterns Quincy realises that an innocent woman is in prison & sets out to free her but there is no body & the case is six years old so has to rely on crime scene evidence to make his case . I think this is the only time in which Quincy actually proved a case through crime scene evidence alone & recreation complete with mannequin & dowling rods to show the trajectory of the bullet , in fact Stain of Guilt is one of the very few Quincy episodes which doesn't feature an autopsy at all . At only fifty odd minutes in length the pace is good , the story is intriguing & probably one of the first of it's kind , there's a decent murder mystery here although I don't understand why the killer would wear those strange shoes which would surely lead the police straight to them , there's some nice humour & the whole making a film within a film type scenario is also a first for Quincy as he gets to be a technical adviser in Hollywood & pit his wits against a young ambitious director . A great episode & a personal favourite of mine . Here it is said the reason for Quincy to moonlight is that his boat is infested with termites & needs to be fumigated while there's a running comedy subplot about him constantly falling asleep . There's a comedy ending at Danny's in which Quincy reveals that the director wrote a small apart for him in the film to which everyone laughs & says ' what do you know about acting ? ' which I found rather ironic since Klugman has more acting ability & talent than anyone else there put together . Cult exploitation actor Sid Haig appears as a bad guy who gets murdered himself while veteran actor Ed Begley Jr . makes the third of his three guest appearances on the show as a stand-up comic . Stain of Guilt is surely the best episode from the sixth season of Quincy which has been variable to say the least , fans of the show & crime dramas in general should love this one as much as I do although the actual murder plot might have been a little better now that I come to think about it . . .
Another top Hammer House of Horror story .	Hammer House of Horror : The Thirteenth Reunion starts as investigative journalist Ruth Cairns ( Julia Foster ) is told by her editor Gwen Cox ( Dinah Sheridan ) to join & write a story about a diet club called Think Thin situated at the Chesterton Clinic which uses rather harsh methods . Ruth joins the club & witnesses how the organiser humiliates & verbally abuses the overweight in an attempt to almost shame them into losing weight . While there Ruth meets a man named Ben Faraday ( Warren Clarke ) who later that night has a car crash & dies , Ruth then gets a visit from a young mortician named Andrew ( Gerard Kelly ) who claims that something funny is going on at the funeral home where he works . Andrew suspects that his bosses may be orchestrating death's & the stealing bodies of fat people & they should check Ben's coffin , inside they find a wire frame shaped like a man wrapped in bandages & the chase is on as Ruth becomes determined to find out what's going on . . . The Thirteenth Reunion was episode 2 from the unfairly short lived British horror anthology series produced by Hammer studios for TV & this originally aired here in the UK during September 1980 , the first of three Hammer House of Horror episodes to be directed by Peter Sasdy , Rude Awakening & Visitor from the Grave being the other's , this is another great story from a quality series . The script by Jeremy Burnham plays out like some macabre mystery with various bits & pieces revealed as it goes along , not enough for it to become too predictable but enough to retain ones curiosity as to where the stories going . I found it a pretty intriguing & engaging episode , I loved the final outcome & the abrupt shock twist ending as well . The character's are decent as is the dialogue & at only 50 odd minutes in length it zips along at a nice pace , it never bores , there's not much unnecessary talk & it provides some nice creepy chills . I could have done with a bit more gore in this one but the strong story compensates pretty well . The low TV budget doesn't help here & the boys at Hammer were forced to shoot stories set in contemporary England as opposed to the lavish Gothic 19th century that many of it's Dracula & Frankenstein films were , this actually isn't a problem as you can relate to the stories a bit more . There's a disappointing lack of gore on show here , there's a bit of blood & a headless body but nothing else . Having made numerous films for the cinema Hammer obviously used their experience to turn in very good looking , cinematic & polished episodes , it was shot on location , is well made & has decent production values . The acting is alright here . The Thirteenth Reunion is a great Hammer House of Horror episode & if your a fan of the series or like twisted mysteries this is a must , if your not & don't like the horror genre in particular then give it a miss . Personally I think it's great & it's as simple & straight forward as that .
Part 2 . . .	Quincy M . E . : Snake Eyes : Part 2 starts as panic spreads through the hotel as news of the killer disease becomes common knowledge , the guests are desperate to leave & LA coroner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) is having a hard time keeping control of the situation . All the blood & food tests come back negative , what is causing people to become ill & die is still a complete mystery . Then , Dr . Pines ( Frank Converse ) dog dies from the same symptoms & after an autopsy he is able to narrow down the cause which should put an end to it but things just aren't as straight forward as that & Quincy still has some detective work to do . . . Episode 2 from season 2 this Quincy story was directed by Joel Oliansky & is rightly considered by many fans of the series to be one of Quincy's finest stories because quite frankly it is . The script flags a bit for the first half as Quincy & his Doctor friends go round in circles trying to find out what is making people ill but this episode finishes with a really unexpected & highly effective twist ending which I must admit I didn't see coming & I had already seen Sanke Eyes before ( although that was back in the 90's ) ! I really liked the ending here & it made the whole thing a very satisfying way to spend a few hours over it's two episodes & there is even a murder for Quincy to solve as well . This is one where Quincy is out of the lab for the entire duration of the show so it's a nice change of scenery as well although unusually there's not much humour . A great two part story rightly regarded as one of Quincy's best . These old Quincy episodes were probably quickly made for TV on a low budget so they are never going to win any awards for style but it's competently made . The acting is alright , some of the guest stars are a little wooden but the regulars are very good as usual especially Klugman who literally steals every scene he is in . Snake Eyes : Part 2 is a terrific second part to a terrific first part , there's murder , intrigue & an unexpected twist ending , what more do you want ? A must for fans of the show .
Top quality classic Quincy .	Quincy M . E . : Snake Eyes : Part 1 is set in Las Vegas where LA coroner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) is attending & pathologist convention , all goes well & once it's over he settles down to enjoy the rest of his stay there with his woman friend Lee ( Lynette Mettey ) . However Quincy's enjoyment is rudely interrupted when he gets a call from the assistant manager of the hotel he is staying in , it turns out that there is some sort of disease sweeping through the hotel & dozens of guests are infected . Quincy does his best to help but people start to die , the hotel manager Al Ringerman ( Val Johnson ) wants it kept quiet to avoid bad publicity while Quincy wants it kept quiet so the other guests don't panic leave the hotel & spread a potentially fatal disease across America so they come to a compromise . Can Quincy discover the cause & find a cure while there's still people left alive to save ? Episode 1 from season 2 this Quincy story was directed by Joel Oliansky & is a terrific way to kick off the second season . A two part story this first part is classic Quincy , as usual whenever he is on holiday or trying to enjoy himself away from the lab a medical emergency occurs & he has to deal with it as well as contend with the usual bureaucracy & uncooperative officials who only look out for themselves . This is also a departure from the murder mystery stories that littered the first season proving the show could tackle a wide variety of issues & story lines . What I like about this one is that it's not political or one of those horrible episodes with a moral & gives Quincy a good mystery to solve , a race against time & some dead bodies as well . It moves along at a nice pace , the character's are good & even at this point you feel like you've known Quincy all your life . There is also a subplot about a gangster gambling all his money away in a casino & a stand-up comedian who spouts some really bad jokes . This one looks alright , it does look dated at times & some of those hair-dos & suits are just plain frightening . The acting is good from all involved & Danny gets a bigger role than usual in this one . One of the few episodes not to feature either Lt . Monahan , Sgt . Brill , Sam or Dr . Asten . Snake Eyes : Part 1 is a great Quincy episode & sets things up nicely for Part 2 , a must for fans & I'm sure a wider audience would enjoy this too . Perfect afternoon viewing .
Excellent classic early Quincy murder mystery .	Quincy M . E . : Visitors in Paradise is set in the small rural town of Paradise where Los Angeles coroner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) & his friend Danny Tovo ( Val Bisolgio ) intend to spend three days on vacation fishing & relaxing . After checking into their hotel they head straight out onto the lake to fish , another boats pulls up along side them & a young woman named Jessica Casey ( Hilary Thompson ) ask's Quincy for help in proving her father John ( Barry Cahill ) didn't murder her mother Laura . All the evidence is circumstantial , wanting to help Quincy agrees to look into the case & quickly discovers some sort of cover-up & an overwhelming willingness to convict John on flimsy evidence . Local thugs put pressure on Quincy to leave but he is determined to find out the truth & save an innocent man . . . Episode 4 from season 2 this Quincy story was directed by Ivan Dixon & Visitors in Paradise was the first of the fifty minute ( sixty with commercials ) episodes when it got a regular series after several ninety minute feature length ' Mystery Movie ' episodes & is one of the best ever Quincy episodes full stop in my opinion . This is one of those episodes where all the significant action takes place outside the laboratory & Los Angeles in a small town where Quincy & Danny find the locals turn very hostile when they start poking their noses into their business . Visitors in Paradise isn't just a straight forward murder mystery either , Quincy has to prove John innocent , he has to discover the truth & uncover some dodgy dealings in Paradise . There's some really nice humour as Danny gets fed up with it all & as Quincy walks in on a half naked woman in a changing room . The character's are good , the dialogue is fine , it moves along like a rocket , the story is good & isn't too predictable & it's just one of those Quincy episodes which contains everything I like about the show . The half naked girl in the dressing room is actually Jamie Lee Curtis in her first credited screen role & only her second role full stop , she of course would go on to star in the smash hit horror Halloween ( 1978 ) the following year . There are one or two car stunts in this as Quincy is forced off the road & crashes into a shop front ( in slow motion no less ) . The acting is very good & Danny gets to do more in this episode than just about the rest of the seven seasons put together . For continuity nerds Visitors in Paradise features a totally unique opening credits sequence , it doesn't have the large green ' Q ' graphic , it doesn't have the cops fainting as Quincy performs an autopsy , Jack Klugman is not credited during this sequence & it features some alternate footage not seen in the more regularly used one . This not very good sequence was probably made to distinguish the fifty minute episode from the ninety minute ones previous but it didn't last too long & by the time Hit and Run at Danny's aired two stories later the production team had reverted back to the more traditional ones which stayed with the series until it ended six seasons later . Visitors in Paradise is an excellent Quincy episode , some of the medical terminology is a little dated ( they only just are able to tell the difference between male & female blood ) but the murder mystery is one of the best from the entire series , it's funny , it's intriguing & it's just a great episode any fan of the show should enjoy .
" She was in perfect health expect for one thing , she's dead . " A 24 carat solid gold Quincy classic !	Quincy M . E . : The Last Six Hours starts as Los Angeles coroner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) & his latest young enough to be his daughter girlfriend Barbara ( Sharon Acker ) are looking forward to spending a nice vacation together , with only three miles left to the county line they both get very excited as once past it Quincy has no authority or responsibility beyond it . As they drive along the highway an open top Mercedes almost runs Quincy off the road , Quincy notices a young woman driving & that there is something wrong with her . The doctor & humanitarian in Quincy decides to follow her & soon after the Mercedes crashes into a ditch by the side of the highway , Quincy rushes to help but the young lady is dead . Back in the laboratory & Quincy agrees to do the autopsy which leaves him baffled , apart from massive hemorrhaging she was in perfect health . Then a cop is brought in , a cop who worked in the police car compound & examined the Mercedes hours earlier , Quincy believes that something in the car is responsible for both deaths & when Sam ( Robert Ito ) becomes ill he races against time to find a killer & the poison they used . . . Episode 1 from season 4 this Quincy story was directed by Corey Allen & certainly opens the fourth season with a real cracker of an episode which just about contains everything that is good about Quincy M . E . as a series in my eyes . It has the humour , it has the amusing & now developed relationships between the regular character's with everyone getting some screen time , it has Quincy putting his reputation on the line with a bizarre theory that no-one else believes , it has a solid murder mystery that is intriguing & not too predictable , there's Quincy running around in a race against time to save his friend , there's Quincy using his medical skills & knowledge to solve a crime , Quincy gets angry & shouts at people , there's the running gag about Quincy's girlfriends , some reasonably poignant & touching scenes that make you realise why you actually like these character's & not one but two happy comedic endings in which Quincy is left annoyed . I mean what more do you want exactly ? Although some people like the moralistic episodes with a social message I don't & I'm both happy & relieved to say there's no preaching in The Last Six Hours at all about anything . I thought The Last Six Hours had just about everything including tigers & poisonous snakes which Quincy uses to threaten someone with ! All in fifty odd minutes as well . There is another episode in which the tables are turned & it's Quincy who is dying & his friends have to save him which is also worth mentioning but I can't remember the title . Here in The Last Six Hours Quincy's huge black funeral hearse looking car is shown for the first time , he claims that it has been in storage & to be honest it probably should have stayed there although it does have a car phone in it . . . We learn that Sgt . Brill actually spent fifteen years in the police car compound before joining homicide in a rare moment of character development for him . I think that the science on show in The Last Six Hours is actually quite accurate & as a plot it's pretty plausible . The acting is good & Klugman is great here be it emotional scenes like when he's trying to comfort an ill Sam or when he is exploding with rage as he tries to get to the truth , the guy was just born to play this part & by the time season four had started he had the Quincy character nailed to a tee . The Last Six Hours is a brilliant Quincy episode & a fantastic way to kick off a generally strong season four , a must for fans & all armchair detectives out there everywhere .
Brilliant mythical adventure film .	The 7th Voyage of Sinbad starts as Captain Sinbad ( Kerwin Mathews ) & his crew land ashore Collossa , dubbed the Island of the Cyclop's , to restock their food & water supplies . However they are attacked by a huge Cyclop's who has been chasing a magician named Sokurah ( Torin Thatcher ) who has a magic lamp which the Cyclop's wants , Sinbad , Sokurah & his crew manage to escape the wrath of the Cyclop's but lose the magic lamp in the process . Cut to Bagdad where Sinbad is due to marry the love of his life Princess Parisa ( Kathryn Grant ) , Sokurah wants to regain possession of the magic lamp & asks Sinbad to help him but Sinbad says no . That night Sokurah sneaks into Princess Parisa'a bedroom & uses an evil magic spell to shrink her to mere inches ! Sinbad pleads with Sokurah to restore her to her original size which Sokurah says he can do but need a special ingredient only found on Collossa , Sinbad arranges a voyage there immediately & faces many dangers on the way . . . Directed by Nathan Juran this was the first of the Harryhausen produced Sinbad films & is simply a wonderful fantasy adventure & a personal favourite of mine . The script by Ken Kolb understandably take somewhat of a backseat to Ray Harryhausen's wonderful monsters & if you actually stop to think about the actual story it has various plot holes in it & isn't that great in a dramatic sense , for instance it's never revealed why Sokurah wants the magic lamp so badly when he has magical powers of his own anyway ? Why is Sokurah so helpful at the end of the film & cures Princess Parisa without any fuss & then sets the skeleton on Sinbad ? Some of the character's motivations are a little suspect & it's not always the most logical of films but it's still a rip roaring adventure filled with lots of action , monsters , treachery & sailing ! The character's are alright , the dialogue is a bit childish at times but it all works pretty in the colourful context of the film . It moves along at a great pace , it never bores , it consistently entertains & is just a wonderful , innocent piece of fantasy film-making the likes of which they just don't make anymore . Director Juran does OK , the Spanish locations are nice enough to look at but it's Harryhausen's special effects & charismatic monsters which makes this film what it is , in fact they make most of the films his work appears in . I mean when we refer to these films it's Harryhausen's name that is mentioned as opposed to the director's & actor's who appeared in them . Anyway , there are some brilliant stop-motion creations here including a fantastic Cyclop's , a huge two head bird called a Roc , a snake woman & my personal favourites a huge fire breathing Dragon & a sword fighting Skeleton . I don't care what anyone says the effects here are brilliant , the creatures on show here have so much more personality & character than any soulless CGI collection of pixels could ever hope to . While maybe not for everyone I think they're great but then again maybe I'm just being an old fuddy duddy . The way the creatures interact with the actors is also great in particular the fight Sinbad has with the Skeleton at the end which is virtually seamless & very impressive even when viewed today half a century after it was made . With a supposed budget of about $650 , 000 this is well made & has very colourful production design , at times almost too colourful & it can look a little garish especially inside the Genie's lamp which is pretty psychedelic . It's well made throughout although some of the fight scenes are a little half hearted . The acting isn't the best & Mathews makes for a somewhat forgettable Sinbad & even Thatcher makes for a bland villain . The 7th Voyage of Sinbad is a classic mythical adventure with wonderful Harryhausen effects & there's also plenty of entertainment to be had between the monsters . Followed by the equally wonderful The Golden Voyage of Sinbad ( 1974 ) & Sinbad and the Eye of the Tiger ( 1977 ) .
Quality classic Quincy episode .	Quincy M . E . : The Money Plague starts in Pine Ridge County in Willow Creek Valley in a national forest where purely by chance park ranger Ron Sparks ( Henry Slate ) finds a skeleton hanging in a tree by it's parachute , he also finds $500 & takes it . It's 4 O'clock in Los Angeles , coroner Quincy ( Jack Klugman ) & his laboratory assistant Sam Fujiama ( Robert Ito ) are about to clock off for the weekend when Asten ( John S . Ragin ) says they are needed at Pine Ridge to help identify the skeleton which is thought to belong to a man who hijacked a plane using a vial of anthrax spores as a threat & bailed out with with lots of cash some five years earlier . Once there Quincy & Sam get to work , eventually they conclude the skeleton belonged to a paratrooper named Federick Gates & that he was the hijacker , case closed . But then a local man falls ill & park ranger Sparks is found dead from anthrax poisoning , Quincy soon realises that if he doesn't find the rest of the contaminated money they might have an anthrax outbreak which could kill millions . . . Episode 9 from season 5 this Quincy story was directed by Rod Halcomb & is one of my favourite episodes . The Money Plague has just about everything that I love about the show , it has a strong , unusual & intriguing plot which proves that not every episode is just about murder , it has the whole race against time angle as Quincy tries to prevent an anthrax epidemic , Quincy has to use a variety of his medical skills & expertise on several occasions to uncover facts & truths , there's a strong mystery element & if all that wasn't enough The Money Plague makes for a nice change of scenery as Quincy & Sam spend the majority of the episode out in the sticks in Pine Ridge County . I really liked the story here , the mystery surrounding the skeleton & Quincy's medical detective work to identify it , I just thought it was an original plot that showed some nice imagination & made a change from a dull as dishwater social message or a contemporary murder set in Los Angeles , there's nothing wrong with those sorts of of story lines but it's nice when the show does something totally different . On the negative side things are wrapped up a little bit to quickly & easily almost like the makers knew they were running out of time & just had to finish it & there's strangely no humour in this one , or at least very little . At only fifty minutes in length it moves along at a nice pace , the story is great , the character's are great , the setting is great & the whole episode is just , well , great . Filmed almost entirely in some small town rather than the usual Los Angeles laboratory setting which makes a nice change . I am not convinced that after five years hanging in a tree that a skeleton would still be together in one piece , wouldn't some of the bones have fallen to the ground ? The skeletons jaw for instance , why was it still attached to the skull ? The teeth marks in the apple that Quincy finds in the hotel room don't match those seen on the apple back at the hospital which he examines , a small & relatively insignificant continuity goof that I noticed . The cheesy comedy happy endings at Danny's are usually a mixed bag , sometimes they work sometimes they don't . Here the comedy ending is actually quite amusing for a change . The acting is good as usual with Klugman excelling as always . The Money Plague is a top , top Quincy episode & one of my personal favourites . What higher recommendation do you need or indeed want ? Fans of the show should love it while more casual viewers should also find much here to enjoy .
" Their growth rate is incredible , in fact it's frightening . " Really , really good fun !	The Green Slime starts as the United Nations Space Command ( or UNSC for short ) detect an asteroid on a collision course with Earth . The big boss General Jonathan Thompson ( Bud Widom ) calls in his best man , soon to retire Commander Jack Rankin ( Robert Horton ) . General Thompson stresses the danger Earth faces , they asteroid ( named ' Flora ' for some reason ) is six million tonnes of space rock that will hit Earth in ten hours & wipe all life out & lets face it it doesn't get more serious than that , does it ? Commander Rankin delays his retirement & accepts the mission to destroy Flora . In no time at all Commander Rankin is aboard the ' Gamma 3 ' space station orbiting Earth , the plan is to land on Flora plant explosives & blow it up , simple eh ? Well everything goes OK until an idiot named Michaels ( Richard Hylland ) starts messing around with some green slime , some of which sticks to his trouser leg . Back aboard Gamma 3 & the team are treated like heroes while their suits go for decontamination . It's not long before the blob of green slime has grown into a large green tentacled alien monster which feeds on energy & will kill any human standing in it's way . Rankin shoots it with a laser gun but it's blood also grows into more slime monsters , soon the entire space station is overrun with the bleeding things . . . This Japanese , American & Italian co-production was directed Kinji Fukasaku & is as entertaining & fun a film from start to finish as one could wish to watch . The script by Tom Rowe & Charles Sinclair moves along like a rocket & is never boring or dull which is most definitely a good thing . It's all rather silly but that's all part of it's goofy charm & entertainment . The character's are ridiculous , the love triangle between ex best friends Rankin & Commander Vince Elliot ( Richard Jaeckel ) over Dr . Lisa Benson ( Luciana Paluzzi ) is really cheesy & some of the dialogue & macho posturing between them has to be seen & heard to be believed . The green slime themselves are class , how can you not love the things ? The screeching noise they make , the big solitary eye , their lumpy somewhat shapeless bodies & their waving tentacles ? OK they are just guys in ill fitting rubber monster suits but they still have to be some of the best & most memorable aliens monsters featured in a film from the period , I mean all monsters from that period were guys in rubber suits , right ? One more thing , I didn't think they were slimy enough considering they are the green slime , once fully grown they're rather dry . Director Fukasaku directs as if The Green Slime were a cartoon with bright garish colours , simplistic shapes & basic spaceships & equipment . There's a real psychedelic 60's & 70's feel to the sets , colour schemes & costumes , The Green Slime is anything but futuristic looking . The special effects are an area that everyone seems to bash , well OK that's fine because effects have come a long way in forty odd years & if your one of those people who criticise a film such as Terminator 2 : Judgement Day ( 1991 ) because the CGI doesn't look that good then The Green Slime definitely isn't the film for you . Sure I'll admit none of the special effects in The Green Slime are particularly convincing but I've seen worse & once again they just add to the fun rather than take from it . Technically the film is OK apart from some poor ( by todays standards ) effects work . The widescreen cinematography is impressive & I absolutely love that opening theme tune , where can I buy a copy ? The acting isn't great although Paluzzi makes for an attractive love interest . The Green Slime has some unconvincing effects , the acting is rather wooden & the spaceships & equipment used look horribly dated but it has a certain charm , a certain something about it & of course it has the green slime themselves together with they're fantastic song ! I throughly recommend it without hesitation .
" Call the Cobra . " Top quality 80's action fest , one of the very best .	Cobra is set in Los Angeles where 16 murdered people have been attributed to ' the Night Slasher ' , a media name for a sadistic random killer stalking the LA streets . The LAPD are clueless & Captain Sears ( Art LaFleur ) has only one option left open to him , to call in the tough & uncompromising Marion Cobretti AKA ' Cobra ' ( writer Sylvester Stallone ) from the zombie squad to uses his unique yet effective methods to find the killer . Meanwhile a model named Ingrid ( Brigitte Nielsen ) sees the Night Stalker ( Brian Thompson ) & his accomplices at a murder scene & instantly becomes the only witness who can identify him , after an attempt is made on her life Cobra sees to it personally to protect her & take the Night Stalker along with his followers down . . . Directed by the late George P . Cosmatos this was the best film he ever made & is an absolute blast if your a fan of 80's testosterone filled action flicks . Teaming up with star Sylvester Stallone once again after Rambo : First Blood Part II ( 1985 ) from the year before Cosmatos turns in a highly enjoyable cheese fest , it's just so entertaining from start to finish I find it incredible someone could not like this film . The script was surprisingly penned by Stallone himself ( apparently he used a lot of ideas in Cobra he developed for Beverly Hills Cop ( 1984 ) which he had been signed up to star in ) & is an action packed , ultra violent thriller which moves along like a rocket & is just so much fun to sit down & watch . From the moment the clueless cop outside the supermarket at the start said ' call the Cobra ' ( not just ' call Cobra ' but ' call THE Cobra ' ! ) & seconds later Stallone arrived in his car screeching to a halt , him getting out with long overcoat , mirrored shades , chewing on a match-stick with a Cobra embossed handgun down the front of his jeans I knew , I just knew this was going to be something special ! Then once Cobra breaks every rule in the book by entering the supermarket , shooting at the terrorist , stopping off to drink some beer from a stand & after the terrorist threatens to blow the hostages & supermarket up Cobra replies ' go ahead , I don't shop here ' it was confirmed that Cobra would be a classic ! At one point the Night Stalker shouts ' we are the future ' to which Stallone replies ' no your not , your history ! ' , I'm not being funny here but quality dialogue like that doesn't just write itself you know & it just doesn't happen by accident either . No , it takes a real genius , ladies & gentlemen Sylvester Stallone is that genius . Cobra , wow what a film . Cobra , wow what a bloke . It's all here , 80's action junkies will love one & if you don't then you aren't a true fan of the genre ! Director Cosmatos does a fine job , there are plenty of great action scenes , shoot-outs , one of the finest car chases you'll ever see with exploding petrol tankers , flipping cars , cars jumping up & down on humpback bridges along with spectacular crashes & there's even the obligatory weapons montage sequence as Stallone tools himself up for the job ahead ! There's even some tacky Pepsi cola product placement . The overriding message of Cobra is to fight violence you need to use violence , in fact you need to be more violent & brutal than your adversary . Oh , & shoot everyone in sight as well . The film tries to say something about the inadequacies of the American legal system & that society needs to get tough & Cobra is used as some sort of epitaph for this message . Cobra is also a film which will outrage the politically correct amongst you , I loved the scene at the end when the stuffy PC cop who thinks even criminals have rights goes to shake Cobra's hand & Cobra smacks him round the face ! I thought the whole idea behind that scene of fighting back against political correctness with good old fashioned violence was fantastic ! Cobra is also a nicely shot film with some attractive cinematography . Technically the film is good with high production values , superb overblown set-piece action scenes & good location shooting . Shot on location in Los Angeles . Here in the UK during the 80's & 90's the BBFC were notorious for cutting films , in Cobra they demanded a 4 second cut at the end when a man is doused in petrol & set alight . Almost all the actual detail of the act is still present but for some bizarre reason they demanded the line uttered by Cobra ' you have the right to remain silent ' be cut in it's entirety , all of the violence , blood , bad language & weapon use is still present in the film but not that line of dialogue . Does that make any sense to anyone out there ? The acting is alright , thankfully Nielsen only has a few lines while Stallone is just perfect for a role like this . Stallone & Nielsen were married at the time Cobra was filmed . Cobra is just a brilliant 80's action fest & it's as simple & straight forward as that . I loved it , I loved it's action & violence , I liked the story , I liked the cheesy dialogue , I liked Stallone in it & I just thought it was a great film that entertains every time I've seen it . Why was a sequel never made ?
I loved it , even though I'm aware many don't . . .	Mars Atttacks ! starts as the president of the United States of America James Dale ( Jack Nicholson ) is informed that the Hubble telescope has photographed 100's of Martian spacecraft orbiting Earth , he makes an announcement to the nation on national TV to inform the public . The Martians broadcast a message which is translated into English & are discovered to be landing co-ordinates in the Nevada Desert , a welcoming committee is organised to greet the Martians when they land . At first all indications seem to point to the Martians being peaceful but that doesn't last long as they begin to zap & kill anyone within sight & then mount an all out attack to take over the Earth ! Co-produced & directed by Tim Burton I remember Mars Attacks ! being one of the very first DVD's ever released here in the UK , in fact I think it was in the very first wave of releases by Warner Bros . over here who along with Colombia were the only major studios to support DVD upon it's initial launch in the UK & I also remember I got it free when I brought my first player all those years ago ( I can also remember how impressed I was with the picture quality which we now take for granted ) & frankly I loved it then & I still do now . Anyway , the script by Jonathan Gems is funny , smart , fast paced & a whole lot of fun . Now I think you need to be of a certain disposition to enjoy Mars Attacks ! as it's going to appeal to horror / sci-fi fans & not just films of that type from the 50's either although one senses that's where most of the inspiration for Mars Attacks ! comes from . To ' get ' Mars Attacks ! I think you will need to have a basic knowledge of sci-fi films & actually like them otherwise this is not going to appeal to you at all , there are some very funny scenes here as well as some exciting ones in particular the Martian invasion at the end . One major problem is that the script tends to go from character or set of character's to another very haphazardly without giving much time for them to develop & never really settles on any particular person or group so it's difficult to get attached to anyone . Still Mars Attacks ! is more about the Martians than humans , I think it's absolutely fantastic with a weird sense of humour & is great fun but I seem to be in the minority unfortunately . Director Burton does a great job & he obviously has lots of fun here , the design of the Martian flying saucers to the big brained Martians themselves , to the 50's look of the Army even though it's set in the late 90's which is a contrast I rather liked . I liked all the little touches in this film & the sneaky little homages , how the Martian rays guns would strip peoples skin & leave behind a red or green skeleton , the way the Martian dressed as a woman infiltrates the Whitehouse & it glides along rather than walk & countless other little touches here & there that you probably need to be a fan-boy geek to appreciate . The CGI computer effects are excellent & are more or less as good as anything that has been made since . With a budget of about $70 , 000 , 000 Mars Attacks ! bombed at the box-office making less then $10 million back over it's opening weekend which is a shame as it is well made with high production values , great effects , an eerie 50's inspired score by Danny Elfman & some fabulous 2 : 35 : 1 widescreen ( please , please see it in widescreen if you can ) cinematography . The all star cast do OK but they sort of ham it up a bit too much , Jack Nicholson , Pierce Brosnan , Sarah Jessica Parker , Michael J . Fox , Natalie Portman , Danny DeVito , Annette Benning , Glen Close , Martin Short , Rod Steiger , Joe Don Baker , Jack Black , Pam Grier & Welsh singer Tom Jones go to make up an impressive cast list . Mars Attacks ! is , in my opinion , a wonderful playful & fun sci-fi homage that stands up as a pretty darn fine film in it's own right . Unfortunately not everyone agrees with me & I'm aware more people dislike Mars Attacks ! than actually like it so while I give it an it's an impossible film for me to recommend . Probably made by fans for fans if you know what I mean .
" Welcome to the maternity ward . . . from hell . " The sexiest alien in the universe is back . . .	Species II starts with the first manned mission to Mars code named ' Excursion ' manned by Patrick Ross ( justin Lazard ) , Dennis Gamble ( Mykelti Williamson ) & Anne Sampas ( Myriam Cyr ) reaching it's destination after 11 months in space . Patrick Ross becomes the first person to walk on Mars , he takes various soil samples & heads back to the Excursion . When back on board some strange slime starts to pour out of the sample cannister . . . Back on Earth the astronauts are treated like hero's but while at a fund raising event Patrick has sex with two débutant's ( Nancy La Scala & Raquel Gardener ) whose stomachs open up & human like baby alien creatures emerge . Patrick asks his Father Senator Judson Ross ( James Cromwell ) for help but is ignored as Judson doesn't want any bad publicity , Patrick continues to create alien offspring using various prostitutes , pole dancers & horny housewives . Meanwhile Dr . Orinsky ( Baxter Harris ) is attacked & killed by Patrick's mutant alien blood & General Carter Burgees ( George Dzundza ) calls in professional hit man Preston Lennox ( Michael Madsen , returning from the original ) & Dr . Laura Baker ( Marg Helgenberger , also an original cast member ) who has created Eve ( Natasha Henstridge , yet another returnee ) from a frozen alien embryo ( mentioned in the original ) who seems to have a telepathic link with Patrick , but to use Eve's vital ability to it's maximum potential they must turn her almost completely alien . . . Directed by Peter Medak I have to admit I get a real kick out of Species II & I like it more than the original Species ( 1995 ) , I just love the thing & for that I apologise to no one . The script by Chris Brancato moves along at a nice pace & is never dull or boring which is always a good start & it features more blood , gore , sex & nudity than just about any other major studio film I can think of . This is pure exploitation for the modern generation ! Species II knows that it's all about blood & nudity & doesn't shy away from it , in fact it revels in it ! The actual plot is about as silly as you could imagine , it doesn't make a whole lot of sense & is somewhat clichéd & suffers from simplistic one liner type dialogue but what the hell , I just like to sit back & enjoy the bombardment of nastiness that Species II takes great pleasure in serving up . The characters are a bit dumb especially the comic relief black guy & the fat General with one eye but hey , it's all good fun . There are some great gore scenes in Species II , exploding stomachs , a cool effect when Patrick blows his head off with a shotgun & it grows back , slimy alien tentacles , a nasty looking cut up blood splattered corpse on an autopsy table , someone has their guts pulled out & lots of blood splattered all over the shop . Species II doesn't skimp on the sex & nudity either as it's all here , a threesome , straight sex , alien sex , a motel complex full of prostitutes , a strip club & rape . Trivia : there is even a deleted scene on the DVD in which Patrick picks up a woman who turns out to be a transsexual so after finding out he breaks her neck . Technically Species II is pretty good , director Medak uses some cool shots like zooming into people's eyes & nice angles like the Star Wars ( 1979 ) rip off start as the spaceship zooms across the screen only this time Medak places his camera above it instead of underneath . The special effects are actually very impressive & hold up well even now & don't forget Species II is over 7 years old & that's a long time in effects development . The CGI is solid & doesn't embarrass itself while Steve Johnson & his team pile on the slime & blood in some great yucky over-the-top scenes . The aliens designed by H . R . Giger look organic & visually cool especially Eve although this is where some of the effects become a little bit ropey . I liked the production design with the contrasting hi-tech labs & the old dark run down outhouse building at the end complete with pulsating purple alien cocoons ! The acting is not going to win anyone any awards but Madsen as the cool hit man Lennox is likable as usual , strangely the gorgeous Henstridge isn't in the film that much & only gets topless at the end but it's worth the wait boys . . . Species II is terrific entertainment as far as I'm concerned , I just loved all the nudity sex & gore , I was in heaven ! Species II has a bad reputation which is fair enough , but to be honest I don't give a sit if anyone else likes it because I did & that's all that matters to me . Great entertainment for those with the stomach but anyone with delicate moral sensibilities should stay away . . .
Just about the best and goriest slasher film money can buy !	We open in Camp Blackfoot . It's the middle of the night . A group of kids are planning to pull a prank on the mean-spirited alcoholic caretaker Cropsy ( Lou David ) who is despised by everyone . One of the kids sneaks into Cropsy's room while he is sleeping . He places a human skull complete with worms , decaying flesh and lit candles in each eye socket on a table next to Cropsy's bed . The kids start to tap the window which wakes Cropsy up , he is scared by the skull and knocks it over . The candles in it's eyes start a fire . A nearby can of petrol explodes , Cropsy is engulfed in flames . He manages to escape the burning cabin and throws himself into a nearby stream . The group of kids run away . One week later , St . Catherine's Hospital . Cropsy is alive receiving treatment for his horrendous injuries . Five years later and Cropsy is strong enough to leave , the voices of several Doctors inform us that ' the skin grafts just didn't take ' and that he has to try and adjust to a normal life . He walks down some dark sleazy street in New York ( I bet it doesn't look like this anyone ) and is enticed into an apartment by a prostitute . In her apartment she can see how badly burned and deformed he is , at this stage however , we don't . She asks him to leave , he is obviously upset at her repulsion and grabs her throat , picks up a pair of scissors nearby and stabs her , large amounts of blood splat on a mirror . Camp Stonewater is the camp where Cropsy decides to lurk around and extract his revenge . We are introduced to all the main characters . The main counsellors are Todd ( Brian Mathews ) and Michelle ( Leah Ayres ) , they are taking a group of kids on a field trip deep into a nearby forest . Going along are Alfred ( Brian Backer ) who is the creepy weirdo who likes to spy on girls in the shower . Glazer ( Larry Joshua ) is the stud who loves himself , Sally ( Carrick Glenn ) is his girlfriend . Eddy ( Ned Eisenberg ) is the cool ladies man , he's trying to have sex with Karen ( Carolyn Houlihan ) who admits she is sometimes afraid of him . Dave ( Jason Alexander ) and Woodstock ( Fisher Stevens ) are both practical jokers . Tiger ( Shelly Bruce ) is one of various other kids who come along . During the first night Karen has her throat slashed with a pair of garden shears and someone lets all the canoes go . The surviving kids soon realize that their not alone and are in great danger as Cropsy has returned for a murderous revenge . Directed by Tony Maylem this is a solid slasher film from the early eighties . Great musical score by Rick Wakeman , good production values and solid if unspectacular performances help , but the real star of this film is Tom Savini's excellent special make up effects . Including extremely graphic and convincing shots of slit throats , chopped off fingers and limbs , and vicious stabbings . All in lingering close ups . Check the scene out where Glazer is killed , Cropsy sticks his shears through his throat , the tips stick out from his back . Blood spurting all over the place , and Glazer is choking on his own blood which is pouring from his mouth , the gore and violence in this film is brutal and shown in unflinching detail . The biggest problem is the script by Peter Lawrence and Harvey Weinstein , the pacing over the fist half of the film just isn't right . After Cropsy kills the prostitute the films focuses on introducing the characters for too long . It's the best part of 40 odd minutes later before Karen has her throat slit . It gets a little dull waiting for Cropsy to show up again and drags along a bit . Also , at the end when Todd supposedly find Karen's body the filmmakers just use a still shot from her murder , you can even see the tree in the background even though she's meant to be hung up in some abandoned mine of some sort . Overall though I really liked this , it delivers the gory goods and has plenty of nudity as well , what more do you want from a film like this ? As long as it's the uncut version I highly recommend this to horror and slasher fans alike , I enjoyed it .
" You have to play the game to know why your playing the game . " I liked it , a lot . . .	eXistenZ starts with a small gathering of people who have been chosen to try the latest virtual reality game from the mind of Allegra Geller ( Jennifer Jason Leigh ) the best games designer in the world , period . Besides designing games Allegra has developed a new games system to play them on , a metaflesh pod which is inserted directly into the player via a bio-port on the base of their spine . However during the test an attempt is made on Allegra's life by a pro-reality campaigner , lowly security guard Ted Pikul ( Jude Law ) saves her & they drive off into the night . Allegra says she cannot trust anyone & needs to make sure her metaflesh pod containing the new games code hasn't been damaged & as a consequence they both need to play the game , the line between reality & fantasy becomes increasingly blurred . . . This Canadian , English , French co-production was written & directed by David Cronenberg & is a top film that I enjoyed on various levels . I personally thought the script was very clever , it thought the twists & turns worked extremely well , I thought it was engaging , enthralling & hooked me . It's a complex film & I could easily see many viewers getting bored or frustrated with it & losing interest but I was glued to it & it really engrossed me . There are the usual moral messages as well which are presented in a strong & intelligent way , the obsession with games in our society , the way we use technology to escape our ' normal ' lives , addiction , corruption & trust , hey it's all here . The character's are good , the dialogue not overly complex or full of technical jargon so most will be able to follow it easily & I also thought eXistenZ contained that one element which many films & they're makers have forgotten about , originality . I mean I think I'm right in saying that eXistenZ is a unique film in it's own right that doesn't follow anyones lead , although having said that I am struggling a bit to actually place eXistenZ in a genre as I can't honestly say I felt it was sci-fi , horror , action or thriller . Maybe a bit of all four , it felt fresh & different & I must admit I liked the abrupt ' you decide what happened ' ending . Director Cronenberg is a class act all day long , he loves his bizarre imagery & complex stories doesn't he ? He's made some cracking films over the years & I think eXistenZ is up there with the best of them like Videodrome ( 1983 ) , The Fly ( 1986 ) & Dead Ringers ( 1988 ) all of which come highly recommended by me . He films with style & there's plenty of memorable scenes here . The gore levels aren't as high as in some of Cronenberg's other films so don't expect buckets of blood although someone has the side of their face shot off . Technically eXistenZ is top notch , the look of the film , the locations , the special effects & production values are great . I got the feeling that everything in eXistenZ was carefully thought through & deliberate . The acting was good although I thought Jude Law was a bit flat . eXistenZ is a great film which I liked immensely , it's as simple & straight forward as that . Well worth watch for those who want something a bit different , Cronenberg fans & those who like sci-fi / horror . Definitely recommended .
" A broad bean in it's natural state is not turquoise . " An excellent horror mystery thriller .	The Wicker Man is set on the privately owned island of Summerisle just of the coast of Scotland where Sergeant Neil Howie ( Edward Woodward ) of the West Highland Police has flown to by small sea plane to investigate a missing girl called Rowan Morrison ( Geraldine Cowper ) after receiving a mysterious letter from someone on Summerisle claiming she has been missing for several months . At first the locals seem very uncooperative & deny anyone named Rowan Morrison ever lived there , as Sergeant Howie carries out his investigation it quickly becomes apparent that the inhabitants of Summerisle are in fact Pagan worshippers who believe in human sacrifice & have lied to him . Howie fears Rowan might have been murdered but the truth , when revealed , is even more horrifying . . . This British production was directed by Robin Hardy & is a classic piece of horror with excellent storytelling . First off I'll say that there seems to be various versions of The Wicker Man floating around that range in length from under 90 minutes to over 100 , from the original theatrical cut to the director's cut there are definitely a few different versions out there & I'm honestly not to sure which one I saw so bear that in mind . Anyway , the script by Anthony Shaffer first of hooks you with the mystery surrounding the missing girl & then presents a Pagan world where Christianity doesn't exist , it's a world where children dance naked around fires , where a mother tries to cure her daughter's sore throat by putting a toad in her mouth , where children are taught twisted ideas about sex , where there are no Church's or ministers & where the villagers openly have sex in public . It's all rather unnerving & pretty creepy as well , the character's are brilliantly developed , the dialogue is very effective but it's perhaps it's fantastic twist ending that The Wicker Man will be best remembered for as it's simply superb & has tremendous impact . The whole film has been thought through carefully & the sustained build up to it's climax works brilliantly , as a horror film , as a mystery , as a warning & it's original , it's considerably different from just about any other horror film I've ever seen anyway . Director Hardy does a great job here , who would have thought some pretty terrible sounding folk songs could be so creepy & unnerving ? There's a great atmosphere to The Wicker Man although there aren't really any out and out scares , it has it's fair share of nudity but lacks any real gore or violence but when a film is this good & has such an excellent story that's as brilliantly told as The Wicker Man the lack of gore isn't a consideration . Technically the film is good , shot on location in Dumfries & Galloway in Scotland it makes for the perfect backdrop . The music plays a big part in The Wicker Man & it's very atmospheric & unsettling . The acting is strong from all involved , Woodward is very good , Christopher Lee states that this is maybe the best thing he's ever done while the Swedish Britt Ekland takes her clothes off . The Wicker Man is considered a cult classic & it's an accusation I have a hard time arguing with , however as always there are going to be people out there who ' don't get it ' or simply don't like it & that's fine because we are all entitled to an opinion . Having said that I'm pleased to know there seems to many more out there who definitely like it rather than not , personally I think it's a great film & it's as simple & straight forward as that . Remade by Hollywood & starring Nicholas Cage as The Wicker Man ( 2006 ) & interestingly set for another remake or ' reimagining ' as they like to describe it by director Robin Hardy as Cowboys for Christ ( 2007 ) again starring Christopher Lee .
Great teen horror flick with a nice hint of originality .	Final Destination starts as 17 year old Alex Browning ( Devon Sawa ) & his classmates turn up at JFK airport in readiness to catch flight 180 to Paris , he boards the plane & it takes off & in midair it explodes killing everyone on-board . Alex them wakes up & realises it was a dream like vision , he becomes freaked out when the events which happened in his vision happen in real life & after causing a large commotion he along with several of his classmates are thrown off the plane before it takes off . They are left in the departure lounge as the plane takes off , then they all witness it as it blows up in mid air killing everyone aboard just like in Alex's vision . Those who walked off the plane try to get on with their lives but start to die under mysterious circumstances leading Alex to believe that death has come back to claim those he saved . . . Co-written & directed by James Wong I have to say I thought Final Destination when it originally came out was a breath of fresh air for the horror genre which was producing boring unimaginative teen crap for years like they were coming off on a production line , at the time I originally saw it at the cinema I genuinely thought Final Destination tried to be something that bit different yet still gave horror fans what they wanted . The script by Wong , producer Glen Morgan & Jeffrey Reddick was apparently based on a potential The X-Files ( 1993 - 2002 ) episode & I must admit I loved the idea behind it , I thought it was clever , fun & made a great central premise for killing off teens in spectacular ways . The character's are good considering their clichéd American teen origins , the dialogue is good with it's plot explained just about enough to make sense without going overboard & at less than 100 minutes it moves along like a rocket with some extremely satisfying & clever set-pieces . The film also has a healthy respect for the genre & there are lots of homages & references to other genre films including naming the cast after old horror stars & director's , Valerie Lewton anyone ? Of course it's not perfect & I'm not trying to say it is , while they are OK the character's are just faceless teens when all said & done , the mortician character is just very out-of-place , one could say it's a touch silly & the set-pieces go from sinister & clever acts which conspire to dispense of a character to overblown full on ghostly events like possessed electric cables , exploding cars & entire house's blowing up & some of it's own rules are broken as if Alex wasn't the next victim because he never actually changed seats why did death try to kill him when he was at the cabin before Carter who was as it is revealed the next victim ? Still , I'll leave the nit picking to the monkeys because I just thought it was a highly entertaining & pretty original teen horror flick with a good story & decent gore . Director Wong does a good job & the film is very stylish & great to look at although I'm coming off the back of a terrible run of zero budget shot on a digital camcorder crap that makes something that looks this good an absolute god send . There's a lot of visual gags here , I loved the prevailing sense of doom at the airport with the informations boards displaying words like ' departed ' & ' terminal ' ! Plus there's a John Denver song playing in the airport toilets & , of course , he died in a plane crash ! I was more than pleased to see the makers haven't skipped on the gore either , there's decapitations , hangings , embalming's , stabbings , broken glass in necks , someone gets splattered by a bus in a great scene & there's plenty of blood splashed around . The film has a nice eerie tension & has a few genuine jumpy scare moments . With a supposed budget of about $23 , 000 , 000 this is very well made , the CGI effects are decent although not perfect while the make-up effects are very good . The film is set in a south New York but was shot in British Columbia in Canada . The acting is pretty good from a recognisable & good looking teenage cast , horror regular Tony Todd makes a small & somewhat pointless cameo . Final Destination is , in my humble opinion , one of the finest teen horror popcorn flicks this millennium & it's as simple & straight forward as that . This proved enough of a success to spawn two sequels , the even better Final Destination 2 ( 2003 ) & Final Destination 3 ( 2006 ) .
" No celery ? You know I can't eat cheese without celery . " I rather liked it , perhaps more than I should have . . .	The Beast in the Cellar is set in Lancashire in England during the early 70's where two elderly sisters name Ellie ( Beryl Reid ) & Joyce Ballantyne ( Flora Robson ) live together in their large house just outside the small rural town of Littlemead , one day Ellie rushes home to tell her sister that a soldier from a nearby Army camp has been brutally murdered . At first they both wonder who the killer could be until Ellie goes down into their cellar where they have kept their brother Steven ( Dafydd Havard ) bricked up for the past 30 odd years & discovers that he has dug a tunnel & escaped , obviously putting two & two together they feel Steven was responsible or the murder . The fact they find another dead soldier in their shed also has something to do with their thinking . Anyway , the beast is loose , on a murderous rampage & no-one is safe . . . This English produced horror film was written & directed James Kelley , it came from Tigon studios who were formed to compete with the likes of Hammer & The Beast in the Cellar was released in cinemas here in the UK to an unsuspecting public on a double bill with Tigon's best known film The Blood on Satan's Claw ( 1971 ) which is a thought that make me proud to be British . . . While not as good as The Blood on Satan's Claw I still thought The Beast in the Cellar was a great film , judging by the other comments here on the IMDb I definitely seem to be in the minority by thinking that but quite frankly I don't give a toss because I thought it was a cracking little horror film & the fact that no-one else seems to like is completely irrelevant to me & my enjoyment of it , isn't it ? I love the character's of Ellie & Joyce , as a pair their so different anything else I can remember seeing in a horror film , I mean name one other horror film where he two main stars are old ladies ' . I bet you can't . I thought their parts were reasonably well written & I actually started to feel a little sorry for them by the end , I liked the story although maybe it's a touch predictable ( you just have to look at the title to basically work the entire film out ) , I liked the twist's & this is one film where I liked the slow-ish pace & the build up . Having said that it can be slow going at times as well as being a bit dull although there was something about it that I found very watchable , in fact I couldn't take my eyes off it ! This is a hard one to call because I can see where all of it's ( many ) critics are coming from & to an extent even agree with them but for me The Beast in the Cellar ( great title , by the way ) had that ' X ' factor , that indescribable element that just hooked me personally even though no-one else in the World can see it . . . Director Kelley does a good job , it's not only for the bizarre story that I love The Beast in the Cellar it's the unique atmosphere that only comes from an English horror film from the 70's & there's nothing that can come close to it . I mean they just don't , can't or simply won't make ' em like this anymore , the thick accents & dialogue , the instantly recognisable English setting & countryside , it's all here . It's a little silly at times & after 30 years that bloke would have had a longer beard than that & there is no way on Earth he could have used his long finger nails as Leopard type talons as they would have broke after one slash . There is an acceptable body-count here , while the kills aren't the goriest they're cool & there is one scene in particular that I just loved when Ellie has to dispose of the dead soldier Steven brought home & since the guys eyeball is hanging out she pops it back in ! Honestly I don't really know why but there are so many things that I liked about this film , I must be mad . Technically The Beast in the Cellar is pretty good considering it was probably made for a few thousand quid , the photography is nice ( it's not often you see two credited cinematographers for a film let alone the class of Desmond Dickinson who has an impressive 90 films credited to him & Harry Waxman who has 70 ) & sometimes very effective although the day-for-night shots look cheap as they always do & it's generally well made with atmospheric sets & locations . I thought the acting was pretty good myself especially Reid & Robson who make the film what it is really . The Beast in the Cellar is a film that I really liked , I can't quite put my finger on why because I think it's a collection of things that just made it work for me . However I will concede that this will probably be the only positive review of The Beast in the Cellar you will ever read as everyone else in the entire World seems to dislike it which I cannot ignore so with that in mind I can't recommend it as going by the law of average I'm sure most will hate it . This comment is my own personal opinion & I thought The Beast in the Cellar was great fun & a highly entertaining creepy little horror film from a bygone era , unfortunately I doubt many will share my views on it which I think is a shame . . .
silly and stupid but also fun and entertaining	I really like this movie , I don't care what anyone says . The opening shots of this movie are of a cargo ship drifting into new york , and two people in a helicopter watching it and reporting back to base . The next scene is at the docks , we are informed that pilots boarded the ship and docked it safely . Three men in white radiation suits and masks enter the ship and start looking around . They find lots of mutilated corpses . In the hull they also find a green pulsating egg / pod thing which explodes and sends lots of green slime / goo everywhere . Two of the men make the mistake of taking their masks off and as a result their chests and stomachs explode sending lots of blood and intestines flying everywhere . The third man who kept his mask on escapes and reports back to his superiors . The alien contamination of our planet has begun . So someone has to stop it , but who ? Who do the United States government pick to save the world ? The bloke ( Marino Mase ) who survived in the ship , sexy Col . Stella Holmes ( Louise Marleau ) and a boozy ex astronaut Hubert ( Ian McCulloch ) . Great choice I feel safer already . I think this is a great movie . A great musical score , good gore efx , goofy overacting , a silly script that moves like a rocket and a tacky rubbery monster at the end , what more do you want ? This movie seems to get a lot of harsh things said about it , well what I say is that if a movie entertains you for an hour and a half then it must have done something right , right ? Lots and lots of fun to be had , give it a chance .
" You mardy ass little toe-rag . You touch that bell again for no fcking reason , I'll have you down the block before your feet touch the ground . " Brilliant , harsh drama .	Scum starts as three new inmates arrive at British borstal for young offenders , Carlin ( Ray Winstone ) , Davis ( Julian Firth ) & Angel ( Alrick Riley ) are all introduced to Mr . Sands ( John Judd ) the brutal senior officer who runs A wing . The three new inmates quickly discover life at the borstal is brutal & unforgiving , Carlin is known as a hard-case & Pongo Banks ( John Blundell ) the current ' daddy ' on A wing fears competition so beats Carlin up . Carlin decides to take over Banks operation & with the aid of some snooker balls in a sock ' convinces ' Banks & his cronies that he's the new daddy on A wing . However the inmates have as much to fear from corrupt & uncaring screws as they do each other . . . This British production was directed by Alan Clarke & one has to say once you have seen Scum it'll probably stay with you forever . Originally commissioned by the BBC for their Play for Today series in 1977 they refused to broadcast it , this is the TV version referred to in the IMDb's ' Alternate Versions ' section . Writer Roy Minton & director Clarke then went & re-shot it ( Archer for instance is played by a different actor in both versions ) for a theatrical release which is far more violent & has much more profanity in it . I have never seen the original BBC version but it is available on The Alan Clarke Collection as is the theatrical cut as well which is the one I am basing my comment on . Scum is a very harsh & brutal look inside a British borstal for young men during the late 70's , it is unflinching in it's detail & depiction of cruelty , corruption & is utterly damning of a system which was wholly inadequate & didn't work . It's a brilliantly written film , the character's are superb & you really feel for them as people , the dialogue takes no prisoners with lots of swearing & racist insults ( jungle bunny , coon , black barstrd etc . ) that may offend some of the more politically correct members of the audience . In fact the whole of Scum will probably offend the PC brigade . The film presents the borstal as an institution run by violence & fear , both the inmates & prison officers are seen to be guilty of perpetuating the circle of sadism , violence & corruption in a system that is abused by everyone for their own ends . Scum is just a brilliantly compelling , absorbing , shocking & wonderfully written film that tells it like it was & pulls no punches & doesn't try to fool the audience with any sort of Hollywood romanticised ' happy ending ' where everyone happily walks away . The one thing I must say at this point is that I am positive the way borstal is represented here is no longer the case in reality , in that sense you could almost call Scum a period film at this point in time although it was very much contemporary at the time it was made ( these days young offenders in Britain are more likely to have Playstations in their cells ) . The lack of any sort of soundtrack adds to the gritty realism , the borstal is a cold & bland looking place just like it should be . The violence is extreme at certain points , from a very harrowing scene in which a boy attempts to commit suicide to Carlin using snooker balls in a sock to knock someone out to a very unpleasant & graphic sequence showing a boy gang raped . Scum is not an easy ride , it's not a pleasant film to watch although it doesn't set out to pleasant & nor should it . It's scenes of violence are shocking but they have a purpose & are effective in helping to tell a shocking yet always compelling story . Technically Scum is basic but the harsh simple gritty documentary look of it helps immensely , both to make it difficult to watch & keep it very much grounded in reality . The acting is superb from a fantastic cast , everyone here is just utterly convincing , chillingly so at times in fact . Scum ( the theatrical cut anyway ) is a brilliant film & it's as simple & straight forward as that . It's definitely not a film for everyone that's for sure but if you want to watch a challenging film that will stay in your memory for a long time then Scum is it .
" I'm sure your a good person in your own mental way , but I'd appreciate it if you'd just stay away from me . " Highly enjoyable comedy horror .	Lake Placid starts in Maine , New England on Black Lake ( it turns out the preferred named of Lake Placid was already taken ) as Sheriff Hank Keough ( Brendan Gleeson ) hangs around in a boat waiting as a Beaver tagging diver goes about his job , suddenly Hank sees the diver in trouble & when the diver is finally pulled aboard he has been chopped or perhaps bitten in half . Cut to a New York museum where palaeontologist Kelly Scott ( Bridget Fonda ) is told to travel out to Black Lake & investigate the discovery of a tooth in the diver's wounds . Along with Hank & some of his Deputy's & a local Fish & Game warden Jack Wells ( Bill Pullman ) Kelly attends a camping expedition to discover the owner of the tooth & what killed the diver . Once there an eccentric millionaire called Hector Cyr ( Oliover Platt ) who worships Crocodiles flies in & joins the expedition but fails to convince the team of the possible existence of a Crocodile in Black Lake . As severed Moose heads & human toes turn up it quickly becomes apparent that Hector is right & they are in fact dealing with a prehistoric 30-foot Crocodile that likes to eat unsuspecting people . . . Directed by Steve Miner I thought Lake Placid was a terrific piece of entertainment & even my friend Kelly thought it was ' wicked ' & she doesn't usually like horror films . The script by David E . Kelley moves along like a rocket & thankfully never becomes bogged down with boring & unnecessary sub-plots & mixes both comedy & horror extremely well . Lake Placid is at heart a throw back to the 50's & 60's giant monster films but is probably as good , if not better than any of those as it uses up-to-date special effects & goes for a witty script . There are some great one-liners , funny dialogue exchanges , sarcasm & the usual self referential lighthearted quips made so popular by Scream ( 1996 ) . The horror elements are here as well with some nice attacks that manage to create good solid shocks , well my friend Kelly thought so anyway & I tend to agree with her . The characters are very likable especially Hank the hapless cynical Sheriff . The ending felt a little routine & unoriginal & you just know that their plan for trapping the Crocodile will go wrong , I also would have liked to have seen the Crocodile eat a couple more people but you can't have everything I suppose . Technically Lake Placid is very good & considering the supposed $27 , 000 , 000 budget I would hope so , the Crocodile is brought to life using both some OK CGI & some excellent animatronic live-action effects by Stan Winston . The cinematography by Daryn Okada is cool & a few shots really capture the expansive forest & beauty of the locations used . There are a few gore scenes but nothing too graphic , a man bitten in half & later his corpse is seen on an autopsy table , a severed head & toe , a decapitation & a some of the local wildlife get eaten . The acting is pretty good by the likable cast & I actually wanted most of them to live , Betty White as the foul mouthed Dolores Bickerman is very funny & gets some good lines . I really liked Lake Placid , my friend Kelly liked it so I didn't think I would as we don't normally share the same taste in films but this is one occasion where she is right , for a change ( sorry Kelly only joking ! ) . All that is left to be said is if Lake Placid is good enough for Kelly , who's always right according to her , then it's certainly good enough for anyone else . Recommended & definitely worth a watch .
" Scratch my back with a hacksaw ! " Maybe JCVD's best film .	Sudden Death starts as ex-firefighter Darren McCord ( Jean-Claude Van Damme ) picks up his two young children Emily ( Whittni Wright ) & Tyler ( Ross Malinger ) from his ex-wife Kathi ( Kate McNeil ) to take them to the Civic Arena to watch the National Ice Hockey League's seventh & final game of the Stanley Cup between the Pittsburgh Penguins & the Chicago Hawks . As Face-Off approaches ex-CIA agent Joshua Foss ( Powers Boothe ) & his team of mercenaries storm the owner's box overlooking the game & take the Vice President ( Raymond J . Barry ) hostage . Foss demands that the Government pay him millions of dollars or he will execute his hostages one by one & eventually blow the arena up & everyone inside . By chance McCord discovers what has happened & takes it upon himself to stop Foss & prevent him killing the Vice President , thousands of innocent spectators & his children . . . Directed by Peter Hymas who was also the director of photography one has to say Sudden Death is one of my favourite action flicks from the 90's . You know I have always liked JCVD & think he's made some great films , yes that's right I just said I think JCVD has made some great films since I truly believe that . He isn't the greatest actor of all time but he does at least try , he has always kept himself in shape & certainly makes for a plausible action hero & most of his films have something about them . From his early low budget roots in Bloodsport ( 1988 ) & Kickboxer ( 1989 ) which were fun films to his big budget Hollywood hey day with entertaining films like Universal Soldier ( 1992 ) , Hard Target ( 1993 ) & Timecop ( 1994 ) to his more recent output like the interesting Replicant ( 2001 ) & In Hell ( 2003 ) which deserved more than to go straight to video . For my money Sudden Death ties with Hard Target as JCVD's best film , sure it's an unashamed Die Hard ( 1988 ) rip-off but if you can get over that & take it for what it is it's great action packed entertainment all the way . The script by Gene Quintano could have easily been made as a Die Hard film & not looked out of place , there's the cold hearted bad guy , there's the plan to take control of some location & cut it off from the outside world , there's the lone ranger style hero who has to do it all on his own against the odds while his family get caught up in the situation which makes things personal for him , there's enough dead bodies to fill a graveyard , there's plenty of shoot-outs , fights , gratuitous violence , one liners ( I love the one by Boothe who when trying to select a hostage to kill says ' you all agree the Mayor's wife has been the most annoying ' after she started crying ) , plenty of explosions & a few plot twists as well . It's all here , it really is . It moves along at a good pace , your never more than a few minutes away from the next action set-piece , the character's are good , the dialogue fine & the plot sound . There's nothing ground breaking in Sudden Death , it is what it is , an action packed 100 odd minutes & to me a near prefect action packed 100 odd minutes . Director Hyams turns in a really good film with plenty of style , some of the aerial shots of the Civic Arena are great & have real scope & a sense of scale when the film is viewed in it's proper 2 : 35 : 1 widescreen ratio & his camera is always moving looking for nice angles . The action is often spectacular , from fights on top of the Arena to explosions to rocket launchers to shoot-outs to fights to death defying leaps to helicopter crashes . McCord also turns into McGuyver on a few occasions as he fixes up some home made weapons including bombs & a DIY gun that shoots nails . I loved the commentators as well as we keep cutting back to them & their over enthusiastic comments like ' I don't care if your packing heat you couldn't get in here tonight ' ! Living in the UK I know next to nothing about Ice Hockey so I really don't know if Sudden Death is an accurate representation of the rules & the sport in general terms although I don't see why it wouldn't be . The film is very violent in places with head-buts , punches , kicks , all manner of items used as makeshift weapons , a huge body count , people are set on fire , shot & stabbed amongst other things . With a supposed budget of about $35 , 000 , 000 Sudden Death had a decent budget but it's not up there with the hundred million plus Hollywood blockbusters is it ? The film is very well made with high production values , top notch stunt work & good special effects . Shot mainly on location in Pittsburgh . The acting is fine with JCVD phoning in his performance & only turning up to the set to do the stunt work , Boothe makes for a great villain while even the two kids aren't that annoying . Sudden Death is one of my favourite 90's action films , it's action packed with a wide variety of over the top action scenes , it has a great villain & a suitably silly plot that you can't take too seriously . What more do you want ?
Bizarre gore drenched splatter Euro horror from Lucio Fulci .	Louisiana , 1927 . A group of men storm a local hotel on the edge of a swamp and burst into a painters named Schweick ( Antoine Saint-John ) room , who they believe is a warlock . They drag him down to the basement , Schweick warns them that the hotel was built over one of the seven gateways to hell , and that only he can protect them from it . They ignore him and brutally beat him and crucify him . Skip forward to 1981 . New Yorker Lisa Merril ( Katherine MacColl ) inherits the now abandoned and run down hotel , and two creepy helpers , the housekeeper Martha ( Veronica Lazar ) and a general handyman Arthur ( Gianpaolo Saccarola ) . She decides to repair the place and re open it . Unfortunately thing start to turn sour almost immediately , one of the painters falls off his second floor scaffolding . The local plumber Joe ( Giovanni De Nava ) finds Schweick's rotted corpse behind a wall in the flooded basement , Schweick then gouges Joe's eye out . And Lisa is warned by a blind woman Emily ( Sarah Keller ) that she is in great danger and must leave . Dr . John McCabe ( David Warbeck ) and his assistant Dr . Harris ( Al Cliver ) examine both Joe's and Schweick's corpses . Interested McCabe becomes involved with Lisa and they both start to investigate the strange events . Soon they realize the gateway to hell under the hotel has been opened and zombies are appearing everywhere . Thats the best I can sum the plot up , what plot there is in this film anyway . Directed by Lucio Fulci , this was the third of his zombie quartet , starting with Zombie Flesh Eaters ( 1979 ) , City of the Living Dead ( 1980 ) , this and finally the House by the Cemetery ( 1981 ) . I think their all a bit overrated but decent solid horror all the same . Acting is OK and Katherine MacColl makes an attractive damsel in distress . David Warbeck is OK as the hero , and I liked Jill ( Maria Pia Marsala ) as the freaky possessed kid . The rest of the cast are just there to be killed in various gore soaked ways , nothing more . Antoine Saint-John in the opening sequence is chain whipped , crucified and has acid thrown into his face all in graphic detail . People have their eyes poked out , more faces are melted with acid , a great scene where a woman has her throat torn out and her ear bitten off by her dog , loads of rotting zombies appear , guys are impaled with shards of glass and little girl Jill has the top of her head blown off . Fulci and special effects man Giannetteo De Rossi don't shy away from the red stuff , thats for sure . For the most part the make up effects are impressive , the best being when Jill gets shot in the face , the worst is when Martin Avery ( Michele Mirabella ) is attacked by spiders . Not only do the spiders make a squeaking noise for some reason , but the fake spiders look awful as does the fake head which they bite and pull apart , Martin's tongue being bitten looks good though , just a shame about the rest of the scene . It has nice clear , crisp and colourful photography by Sergio Salvati . It's main draw back is the script credited to Fulci , Dardando Sacchetti and Giorgio Mariuzzo , it's bizarre , surreal and doesn't really make any sense which is a problem . There are also big lapses in logic , like the end where Warbeck discovers the only way to kill the zombies is to shoot them in the head , but he still insists on shooting them anywhere but their heads . Overall I liked it , it's stylishly made and features plenty of blood , gore and violence . I just wish the story was a little clearer and things didn't just happen for no apparent reason . Certainly worth watching if your a gorehound or horror fan . Make sure you watch one of the various uncut widescreen DVD's that are available , the only way to appreciate it properly in my opinion . Recommended .
" You said you'd send a squad car if there was another disturbance , well I'm disturbed ! " Excellent gooey horror film .	From Beyond starts at the ' Pretorious Foundation ' , a large mansion somewhere . In the attic a physicist named Dr . Crawford Tillinghast ( Jeffrey Combs ) has just completed a computer program to run a machine he's working on called a Resonator , Tillinghast's program works & he informs his boss & the machines inventor Dr . Edward Pretorious ( Ted Sorel ) . Together they switch the Resonator on & strange things begin to appear . . . One of Pretorious's neighbour's ( Bunny Summers ) is concerned about the weird lights & noises coming from the Pretorious Foundation & calls the police , when they arrive they find Tillinghast running out of the house & Pretorious dead in the attic with his head missing . Tillinghast is confined to a mental institution under the care of Dr . Roberta Bloch ( Carolyn Purdy-Gordon ) . Tillinghast speaks of the Resonator , he talks about how it stimulates the pineal gland which gives people a sort of sixth sense that allows them to see creatures from beyond that would otherwise be invisible , both them to us & us to them . Bloch thinks he's crackers & killed Pretorious but there are a lot of unanswered questions like what happened to Pretorious's head & what's that unidentified slime that covered his body ? What really happened that night ? Eager to find out Tillinghast is put under the supervision of Dr . Katherine McMicheals ( Barbara Crampton ) & a local police officer named Leroy ' Bubba ' Brown ( Ken Foree ) who all travel to the Pretorious Foundation to recreate the experiment & hopefully reveal the truth behind Pretorious's mysterious death . However the Resonator starts to affect them , it also offers some extremely nasty creatures a way into our world from beyond . . . Directed by Stuart Gordon I thought From Beyond was a terrific horror film , a great 80's splatter film & one of the best in my opinion . The script by Dennis Paoli based on the novel From Beyond by H . P . Lovecraft manages to incorporate plenty of gooey creatures & gore effects with a pretty good story that has likable characters . It moves along at a nice pace & never drags which is essential for a good horror film as everyone knows how it can become very tedious waiting for the next effects sequence to happen . From Beyond was made by many of the same people responsible for Re-Animator ( 1985 ) & even features a couple of the actors in starring roles , both films are similar in tone & structure with From Beyond perhaps being slightly the lesser film . It doesn't have Re-Animator's dark humour or it's outrageous gore scenes & isn't quite paced as well . From Beyond does have some outrageous special effects of it's own but are mostly limited to bizarre slimy creatures , there is some gore here like a half eaten guy , someone having their head twisted off & resultant decapitated bodies , someone pulls the skin off their face , a third eye popping out of someones forehead & Tillinghast eating some raw brains in a pathology lab . There are various special effects technicians credited & they all seem to do a pretty good job but some of the creatures look a little unconvincing & a bit rubbery , having said that I'd prefer the real life personality & look of latex & rubber any day over poor unconvincing soulless CGI creature effects . The acting is good throughout , Jeffrey Combs is a great actor & very likable as is Ken Foree who is criminally killed off far too early . The looks are provided by Barbara Crampton who is well sexy in her much mention black leather dominatrix outfit . From Beyond generally has good production values & looks OK throughout but , again unlike Re-Animator , it is a little bland & lacks a bit of imagination at times . Gordon doesn't manage to create or sustain an atmosphere like Re-Animator either but it still beats many lesser horror films . Overall I really liked From Beyond with it's over-the-top creatures & special effects , the story worked well as a whole & at only 80 odd minutes long it moves along at a nice pace , Gordon & his team couldn't quite recapture what made Re-Animator so brilliant but it's not far off . If you like your horror outrageous & over-the-top then From Beyond should entertain you . Definitely worth watching & essential viewing for horror fans , recommended .
Great Sci-Fi action from John Carpenter when he was still capable of making a good film !	A female ( producer Debra Hill ) voice announces " 1988 the crime rate in the United States rises four hundred percent . The once free city of New York becomes the one maximum security prison for the entire country . A fifty foot containment wall is erected along the New Jersey shoreline , across the Harlem river and along the Brooklyn shoreline . It completely surrounds Manhattan island , all bridges and waterways are mined . The United States police , like an army , is encamped around the island . There are no guards inside the prison , only prisoners and the world they have made . The rules are simple , once you go in you don't come out . 1997 now . " The president ( Donald Pleasence ) of the United States is flying to a important meeting with China and the Soviet Union for talks that could possibly effect the existence of the human race . Unfortunately Air Force One is hijacked by anti US terrorists who crash it into a large New York skyscraper , but not before the president manages to bail out in a small emergency escape pod . On the Statue of Libertry island security control center police commander Bob Haulk ( Lee Van Cleef ) takes off for Manhattan by helicopter to see if the president has survived . Once there Haulk and his men are confronted by a freaky looking guy named Romero ( Frank Doubleday ) who hands Haulk a severed finger and warns him if he and his men aren't gone in thirty seconds the president dies , and not to come back either . Haulk and his men quickly take off back for the Statue of Liberty island security center to try and decide what to do . In twenty-four hours the all important meeting will be over and the president will effectively be useless , so Haulk decides to enlist the help of convicted bank robber Snake Plissken ( Kurt Russell ) to go into New York on his own , locate the president and bring him back to safety . After learning they have implanted electrical charges in his body which will explode and kill him in twenty-four hours unless neutralised , Snake obviously feels he has no choice but to go along with Haulk's plan . Armed with a gun and various other supplies like a tracker to find the president , a locater so Haulk can locate him & the president and a walkie-talkie Snake takes off in a small glider which he successfully manages to land on top of the world trade center , the search begins . Once there Snake quickly realises that finding the president isn't going to be as easy as everyone had initially thought . Snake befriends Cabbie ( Ernest Borgnine ) who drives a cab and comes across an old friend named Harold ' Brain ' Helman ( Harry Dean Stanton ) & his girlfriend Maggie ( Adrienne Barbeau ) who agree to help Snake find the president in exchange for their freedom . Snake has to deal with vicious gangs , rough terrain and the ' Duke ' ( Isaac Hayes ) of New York who has plans for the president himself . Can Snake find and rescue the president in time ? Watch it and find out . Co-written and directed by John Carpenter this is a cracking piece of Sci-Fi entertainment . The script by Carpenter and Nick Castle moves along at a great pace and is never boring , the dialogue is good and as a whole the somewhat silly premise works very well . The special effects are also quite good and they certainly hold up pretty well even today . The cast is great , I really like Russell in this and he looks more or less perfect for the role of Snake Plissken with his long hair , thick stubble and eye-patch ! Experienced actors Cleef , Borgnine , Stanton , Hayes and Barbeau also all turn in fun performances . The appropriately cool sounding music by Carpenter and Alan Howarth reminds me of the score for Carpenter's Halloween ( 1978 ) a bit but that's no bad thing . It's generally well made overall and the widescreen cinematography by Dean Cundey and Jim Lucas does the job perfectly well . On the negative side it lacks any really big-budget action scenes , we get a few speeding cars and a few fights but nothing that's going to amaze anyone these days . It is also painfully obvious that a lot of this wasn't shot in New York itself . I wasn't sure about the ending either , it felt a little rushed and I didn't quite get what Carpenter was trying to say . But as it stands these are minor quibbles as this is great entertainment all the way ! Definitely worth watching , so if you haven't already what are you waiting for ?
" I am not going to hurt you . . . unless you make me . " Entertaining Tales from the Crypt big screen outing .	Demon Knight starts with the usual Tales from the Crypt ( 1989 - 1996 ) intro & a few puns from the Crypt Keeper ( voiced by John Kassir ) as he introduces a tale called Demon Knight . . . A man named Frank Brayker ( William Sadler ) is driving along a lonely highway as a demon known as the Collector ( Billy Zane ) closely follows , Brayker's car runs out of fuel & he continues to run from the Collector on foot . Brayker ends up at a nearby town called Wormwood where he meets a guy named Willy ( Dick Miller ) who takes him to an old Church now used as a Motel owned by Irene ( CCH Pounder ) who lets him have a room for the night . Meanwhile the Collector & the local police , Sheriff Tupper ( John Schuck ) & Deputy Bob ( Gary Farmer ) get wind of where Brayker is & want to question him about an attempted car theft . Things don't go to plan & Brayker is in fact the keeper of a key , one key out of a set of seven that if the Collector gets his hands on will be able to unleash a horde of demons across the world . It's Brayker & the few remaining residents of the Motel against the Collector & his horde of demons who will stop at nothing to obtain the key . . . Directed by Ernest R . Dickerson ( & Gilbert Adler who directed the Crypt Keeper sequences ) Demon Knight was the first big budget big screen spin-off from the popular ( & great ) Tales from the Crypt TV series that was meant to be part of a trilogy , a second film Bordello of Blood ( 1996 ) was made but a third never materialised because Bordello did so badly at the box office it killed the idea & series , to date anyway . The script by Ethan Reiff , Cyrus Voris & Mark Bishop moves along at a great pace , is never boring or dull & has has a nice sense of fun about it as it never seems to take itself too seriously . From the cool opening & closing Crypt Keeper scenes ( I always enjoyed these bits in the TV series ) with plenty of bad puns to Wally's dirty fantasy full of naked women to the flamboyant , wise cracking & cocky villain the Collector . The character's are a bit clichéd but they're all quite likable & since the film entertains as whole it didn't bother me that much . There isn't much in the way of a story & there's not much boring exposition but sometimes you just want to turn your brain off , sit down & enjoy a dumb mindless piece of horror film-making such as Demon Knight that features plenty of gore , monsters , one liners , action , nudity & doesn't go on for what seems like hours . Better than one might expect & an all round good film . Director Dickerson does a good job , some of the horror sequences seem a bit choppy but maybe this was down to censorship reasons so it could play in theatres . The film has a nice style , he keeps things moving along at a nice pace , he seems to know what his intended audience wants & he delivers . There is some cool gore here , a ripped off arm , a melting face & skull , slimy demons , the Collector punches someone in the face & puts his hand right through their head , decapitations , blood spurting , stomachs & chests ripped open , exploding demon heads & various bits of human & demon carnage all achieved with some cool over-the-top splatter effects that thankfully doesn't use any crappy CGI . I have to admit that I was extremely surprised when I found out that Demon Knight had a budget of about $12 , 000 , 000 as I simply cannot see where the money went , there are no big name stars & a very small cast of character's , the special effects are of the rubbery latex actors in suits variety , there are no big action scenes & the entire film takes place in one location . Personally I'd expect a little bit more from 12 big ones . Demon Knight just doesn't do enough to distinguish itself from loads of other horror films that had far less lavished on them . The acting is pretty good , Zane makes for a memorable villain & Jada Pinkett Smith the future Mrs Will Smith has a leading role . Demon Knight is good fun & terrific entertainment especially if your a horror fan , such as myself . I think it's well worth a watch & not a bad way to mark my 700th IMDb review .
A real guilty pleasure , I love this film !	An early 80's futuristic action / sci fi / horror / thriller / exploitation film , set and filmed in Australia . Its apparently the year 1999 , the date is never mentioned in the movie itself but the voice over on the trailer on the DVD states its set in 1999 . The opening credit sequence is mixed together with stock footage of riots . According to the film Australia is now run by by a strict state government , ruling by terror and intimidation , and wields absolute and ultimate power over the life and death of the population . Anyone found guilty of ' deviant behaviour ' is sent to a government run prison camp . Paul Anders ( Steve Railsback ) and Chris Walters ( Olivia Hussey ) are captured , Paul because he is the leader of a rebellion or something like that , and Chris because Paul tried to hide in her shop before he was caught , the police believing they knew each other . They are thrown into the back of a black van with Rita Daniels ( Lynda Stoner ) herself there because shes accused of being a ' whore ' which she denies . When their there inmates are subjected to various horrific rehabilitation techniques including rape , beatings , humiliation and maybe even death . The camp is run by Charles Thatcher ( Micheal Craig ) and chief guard Ritter ( Roger Ward ) who's never afraid to to give a good beating to an inmate . Every so often Thatcher organises a ' turkey shoot ' for his important influential guests , on this particular ' turkey shoot ' Thatcher is joined by a babe who likes crossbows named Jennifer ( Carmen Duncan ) , Thatcher's boss secretary Mallory ( Noel Ferrier ) and the slimy Tito ( Micheal Petrovitch ) plus his hairy side-show freak Alph ( Steve Rackman ) whom Tito lets loose on his ' turkey ' . Paul , Chris and Rita are all selected , along with two other inmates , Dodge and Griff . They are all set free and given the task to survive until the next day , the catch being that Thatcher , Ritter and their guests can hunt them down and more or less do whatever they want to them , if caught . From then on its a deadly game of survival with the loser paying the ultimate price , death ! I love this film , it has just about everything I'm looking for in a film of this type , violence , gore , action , nudity , torture and a little originality . It tries to be a little different from other horror / exploitation films of that era . I cant think of another film quite like it . Directed by Brian Trenchard-Smith with a lot of accomplishment . He keeps things moving nicely , and uses his Australian locations well , for the most part I think its a handsome looking film with good colourful widescreen cinematography by John R . McLean . The acting is OK and all the ladies look nice , if you know what I mean . The script by Jon George and Neil D . Hicks keeps moving at a good pace , things are always happening to keep us entertained . The scripts attempt at social satire in which Australia is now a Government run society without freedom or free speech is relevant even today and for the most part is successfully implemented . Luckily the scriptwriter's still found lots of opportunity for some strong scenes of violence and gore , we get machetes chopping off hands and being buried in peoples heads , people being run over , guys being impaled with wooden spikes , people shot multiple times with arrows , and lots of beatings as well as various other acts of bodily mutilation ! So , in my humble opinion we have a good looking , violent film , try to watch either the British or American DVD's both are widescreen and uncut . A highly entertaining way to pass an hour and a half , give it a go if you can find a copy and think it sounds like the sort of film you might enjoy , because you probably will .
The first Friday the 13th to feature the infamous Jason , solid entry in the series .	Friday the 13th Part 2 starts with the surviving Alice Hardy ( Adrienne King ) having a nightmare about the events of the original Friday the 13th ( 1980 ) in which she beheaded mass murderer Pamela Voorhees ( Betsy Palmer ) with a machete & had a close encounter with her supposedly dead son Jason . It's been several months since the gruesome events at Camp Crystal Lake & Alice is trying to get her life back on track , however her progress is cut short when one night she finds Mrs . Voorhees severed head in her fridge & is then brutally killed by having an ice pick shoved into the side of her head . It's now been 5 years Camp Crystal Lake has been closed & abandoned , the surrounding area is trying to forget about the horrific legacy left behind by Mrs . Voorhees killing spree . Two teenagers , Jeff ( Bill Randolph ) & Sandra ( Marta Kober ) drive into town looking for a new counsellor training centre that has recently opened in the area , just across the lake from Camp Crystal in fact . A old man known as Crazy Ralph ( Walt Gorney ) warns them both that they're " all doomed " , Jeff & Sandra ignore his ramblings & continue on their way . The new camp is run by Paul Holt ( John Furey ) & his girlfriend who doubles up as his assistant Ginny Field ( Amy Steel , apparently her character Ginny Field is named after Virginia Field this & the original Friday the 13th's production designer ) , there is a good turn out & things start well . After some initial light training Paul says that the hard works begins tomorrow & anyone who wants to have a big night out do it now . Half the group go & half stay behind , those staying include the attractive Terri ( Kirsten Baker ) & her unwanted admirer Scott ( Russell Todd ) , Terri's friend Vicky ( Lauren-Marie Taylor ) , a guy in a wheelchair named Mark ( Tom McBride ) plus Jeff & Sandra . But there is someone else there as well , as the rain begins to fall & lightening starts to strike a mysterious hooded figure is stalking the camp brutally killing everyone one-by-one . . . Produced & directed by Steve Miner Friday the 13th Part 2 is a solid entry in the Frday the 13th series of films which have become my favourite horror film franchise & Jason my favourite killer , I have to say that I really missed the iconic hockey mask Jason has for the remainder of the series though as here all he gets is a bag over his head . The script by Ron Kurz is not a huge departure from what has gone before , or indeed since . It isolates a group of typical teenagers deep in the woods & has Jason kill them off in various ways . I found the stalking & slashing in this entry pretty neat , director Miner manages to create some decent tension & a few scares . The script throws in a bit more motive for Jason's killing spree than usual as it suggests that Jason is out for revenge after witnessing his Mother's death & whose head he still has on a table surrounded by candles . But what it basically all boils down to is that these films are all about the kills & they're pretty good in Friday the 13th Part 2 even though it's obvious that they are censored , which is a shame . There's an ice pick in the head , a machete slitting a throat , a double impalement , someone has a hammer whacked into the the back of their head , Jason cuts someones throat with some wire & someone ends up with a machete planted in their face . While none of these murders are particularly graphic I liked them , as usual Jason is unmasked at the end & here he looks like a deformed man rather than the rotting zombie he would latter become . The teenage character's are clichéd for sure but having said that I thought they were surprisingly all quite likable & no one really annoyed me , well except Jeff I suppose but then there's always one isn't there ? The cinematography by Peter Stein in Friday the 13th Part 2 is very stylish & classy , the daytime shots are very rich in colour & the nighttime shots are well lit to create a good atmosphere . As a whole the production values on Friday the 13th Part 2 are above average & it has a nice polish about it . The cool sounding score & especially the main theme by Friday the 13th regular Harry Manfredini is unmistakably Friday the 13th & I think adds a little something all on it's own . Overall I'm a huge fan of the Friday the 13th series of films & this is a good one , while not terribly original it goes about it's job with professionalism & turns out to be an enjoyable slasher . You know what to expect so have a reasonable level of expectation & I'm sure most slasher fans will find something here to entertain & enjoy .
" Release the Kraken " Highly entertaining fantasy adventure based on Greek mythology .	Clash of the Titans starts with King Acrisius ( Donald Houston ) of Argos ( no not the shop ! ) sealing his daughter Danae ( Vida Taylor ) & her young baby son Perseus in a coffin & throwing it into the sea in an act of defiance against the father of the gods Zeus ( Laurence Oliver ) who happens to be father of Perseus . In anger Zeus commands Poseidon ( Jack Gwillim ) the god of the sea to release a huge monster known as the Kraken to destroy the city of Argos & also tells him to make sure Danae & Perseus make dry land safely . Years later & Perseus ( Harry Hamlin ) has grown into a young man , meanwhile Zeus has to punish Calibos ( Neil McCarthy ) the son of the god Thetis ( Maggie Smith ) for his crimes & evil ways . Zues turns Calibos into a deformed monster who lives like an outcast in a swamp near the city of Joppur where he used to live & was going to marry the beautiful Princess Andromeda ( Judi Bowker ) . In revenge Thetis transports Perseus to Joppur where he falls in love with Andromeda , once again Thetis isn't happy about this & tells Queen Cassieopeia ( Sian Philips ) that in 30 days the Kraken will be set free to destroy Joppur unless Andromeda is chained to a stone & offered as a sacrifice . Perseus sets out on a quest to find the knowledge which will let him defeat the Kraken , a journey which takes him to the Stygian witches , the Isle of the Dead & encounters with various monsters , perils & dangers . . . This English production was directed by Desmond Davis & is a terrificly entertaining fantasy adventure , the like of which they just don't make anymore . The script by Beverley Cross doesn't retell any one particular myth but jumbles several up together & even adds some ideas of it's own . While Clash of the Titans moves along at a nice pace & is never boring or dull the film seems somewhat overly complicated with lots of twist's , turns & distractions which seemed unnecessary while some of the narrative was a bit muddled . Having said that at least it tries to have some depth & it works most of the time . The character's are a bit bland & dull but serve their purpose as the real star of the show are the monsters which are great . I'm not sure about the comedy relief clockwork Owl Bubo though , who at the end turns up with a bandaged foot & mini walking stick under his wing ! Director Desmond does what he can & while the film is competent nothing really stands out except those monsters , of course . The best sequence is when Perseus fights Medusa in her flame lit labyrinth , the lighting is great in this scene & has tension & atmosphere to it . I thought the skeleton ferryman was quite creepy as well . Surprisingly there is a couple of shots with female nudity & a bit of gore as well . With a supposed budget of about $15 , 000 , 000 Clash of the Titans is a well made film with nice varied locations from dark swamps , ancient temples & cities , Medusa's labyrinth & tropical islands which give it an attractive look throughout . The special effects are stop-motion created by the legendary Ray Harryhausen & Clash of the Titans became his last film project to date as CGI & other more sophisticated forms of effects took over . They are generally excellent as you would expect from a giant Vulture , the Kraken a giant four armed sea monster ( actually taken from Scandinavian mythology ) , a two-headed Dog , the deformed Calibos , Pegasus the flying horse & my favourites the fantastic Snake-haired Medusa & the cool Scorpions . On the down side compared to today's multi million CGI effects they come off as a distant second best with a slight jerkiness & grainy blue-screen imposition although they have a certain personality & charm that compensates somewhat . The acting isn't the best , Ursula Andress gets two lines of dialogue during the whole film despite her almost top billing in the credits . Clash of the Titans is a highly entertaining fantasy adventure that I think is well worth a watch , so what are you waiting for ?
" I am sure I am the first such experimenter to incorporate the horror of an actual decapitation with the later rejuvenation of the human body " Pure class .	Dracula Vs . Frankenstein starts in ' Oakmoor Cemetery ' on a dark cold & stormy night as Count Dracula ( Zandor Vorkov ) digs the remains of the Frankenstein ( John Bloom ) creature up . The film then switches to a beach near an amusement park in Las Vegas . Jodie Fontaine ( Maria Lease ) is wandering around on her own when a big ugly guy called Groton ( Lon Chaney Jr . as Lon Chaney ) chops her head off with an axe . The film then switches to the Vegas strip where Jodies sister Judith Fontaine ( the director's wife Regina Carrol ) is a headlining act , we see her performance for a few minutes as the film becomes a low rent MGM musical . Afterwards she discusses Jodie with Sargeant Martin ( Jim Davis ) from the missing persons bureau , Judith doesn't receive much encouragement & decides to investigate Jodies disappearance herself . Meanwhile Jodies decapitated head has been reattached to her body by Dr . Duryea ( J . Carrol Naish ) who just happens to be the last living member of the Frankenstein family & now conducts his experiments from an amusement park attraction called ' Dr . Duryea's creature emporium ' which exhibits various freaks . One night Count Dracula turns up & convinces Frankenstein to reanimate the monster . Judith teams up with a guy named Mike Howard ( Anthony Eisley ) , a guy known as Strange ( Greydon Clark ) & his girlfriend Samantha ( Anne Morrell ) & they eventually stumble across the truth , which be honest I don't really understand , & have to fight for their very lives against Count Dracula & his silly looking laser beam shooting ring , both Frankenstein's monster & mad scientist , Groton , a dwarf named Grazbo ( Angelo Rossitto ) & a rapist biker named Rico ( Russ Tamblyn ) , whew what a crazy film & I've barely touched the surface of what happens ! Produced & directed by the infamous Al Adamson I loved this crazy , almost unbelievable film ! You can't really judge Dracula Vs . Frankenstein by standard film criteria , instead you just need to sit back & enjoy the ride because I personally think this film is great fun to watch . Dracula Vs . Frankenstein quite literary has everything , it has a Frankenstein monster that looks like a speeding train has hit it's face head on , Count Dracula with a silly looking beard & an afro hairstyle , who talks with a bizarre echo throughout & has plastic teeth that bulge out of his mouth , a drug addicted mute hunchback assistant , a wheelchair bound Dr . Frankenstein with a gay looking goatee beard , ancient comets , lab equipment that would look dated during 20's , we do indeed see ( well almost as it's filmed in the horrible day-for-night process ) a Dracula Vs . Frankenstein fight at the end , a biker gang & a weird guy named Strange who gets excited about playing with an old tyre in an alleyway with his girlfriend ! The script is all over the place , the dialogue is insane as Dracula says things like " your fear will fully energise the molecular structure of your blood " , or a cop that says " if you've got a fireplace burn some wood in it , it'll be a lot better than running around on the streets " to a bemused Judith , Mike & the hippies also provide plenty of choice dialogue & lets not forget Dr . Frankenstein's mumbo jumbo " we are not butchers . . . we are scientists " , almost every line is an absolute classic laugh-out-loud moment & I loved all of it ! Dracula & Dr . Frankenstein only meet once in the film & generally speaking Dracula & Frankenstein's monster are relegated to bit-part characters as the film focuses on Dr . Frankenstein's experiments & Judith's investigations , which is a shame . Also , the plot is hardly logical , it makes virtually no sense whatsoever as Dracula says Dr . Frankenstein's serum will help him create an army of undead Vampires & some nonsense about the human body being reanimated with a natural substance made when someone is decapitated but what does that matter when a film is this consistently entertaining ? The special optical effects are terrible , check out the laser beam from Dracula's ring . I thought the make-up on the Frankenstein monster was OK & it looked quite freaky . There is some gore , a couple of ripped off arms , some neck biting & a few chopped off heads . There is also one brief shot of female nudity . Technically Dracula Vs . Frankenstein is a bit of a mess , there are some awful day-for-night shots , the performances have to be seen to be believed , the music gets on the nerves after a while , the props & sets are cheap & the photography is point & hope for the best stuff . But having said all this what it basically boils down to is that I found Dracula Vs . Frankenstein just so entertaining & loads of fun , & surely that's what watching films is all about ? Impossible to recommend as most sane people will hate every demented second of it , but I'm not most people am I ? I'll sign off by saying I loved this film , so bad it's utterly brilliant ! ! !
Great film , highly entertaining .	Waxwork II : Lost in Time starts with a brief recap of the climax to the original Waxwork ( 1988 ) paying particular attention to the escape of the severed zombie hand , Mark Loftmaore ( Zach Galligan returning from the original ) & Sarah Brightman ( now played by Monika Schnarre ) think they have ended David Lincoln's plan to flood the world with evil & catch a taxi home . Unfortunately the severed hand goes along for the ride too . Once home Sarah goes to bed & the severed hand attacks & kills her Stepfather ( George ' Buck ' Flower ) , Sarah is accused of his murder & is put on trial . Sensing an injustice & that she will be found guilty Mark & Sarah head over to Sir Wilfred's ( Patrick Macnee ) mansion who they discover has left a message for them , they find his hoard of ancient artifacts & something called Solomon's Lockett which turns out to be a key to open doors to alternate dimensions . With the idea that they can gain proof of Sarah's innocence by travelling through time & space they enter a time door & find themselves in Baron Von Frankensteins ( Martin Kemp ) castle facing an angry mob of local villagers who want Frankenstein & his monster ( Stefanos Miltsakakis ) dead & anyone associated with him . . . Written & directed by Anthony Hickox , who also has a small cameo in the film , Waxwork II : Lost in Time is a worthy but not quite as good sequel to the great original . The script is one long homage & send-up to various other horror films but this time there are no waxworks involved . From the likes of Frankenstein ( 1931 ) to Alien ( 1979 ) , Dawn of the Dead ( 1979 ) , Dr . Jekyll and Mr . Hyde ( 1941 ) , an awful Godzilla ( 1954 ) bit complete with terrible dubbing to add authenticity , Invasion of the Body Snatchers ( 1956 ) , Jack the Ripper ( 1959 ) , Nosferatu ( 1922 ) shot in black and white complete with subtitles & a jerky movement , The Haunting ( 1963 ) , the severed hand attacking Sarah's Spetfather is taken straight from the sequence in Evil Dead II ( 1987 ) when Ash fights his own possessed severed hand & they also come across a blood stained hockey mask at one point . The film moves along like a rocket & each segment provides variety although some get more screen time than others . One aspect where I thought Waxwork II : Lost in Time didn't do so well with was it's uneven tone when it comes to the balance between comedy & horror , one moment it tries to be a proper horror film with scares like the Frankenstein segment is to start with but then it suddenly descends into camp comedy as Baron Frankenstein is strangled his eyes pop out of their sockets & his brain shoots out the top of his head complete with comedy sound effects . The most developed segment is the climax set in medieval times which strangely isn't based on any other film that I can think of , there is a scene in this part where a big fat executioner complete with black hood approaches a woman tied up but instead of whipping or hurting her he pulls a feather out & starts to tickle her ! Director Hickox films with some style & there are some nice moments , some of the scene transitions , some of the angles & it's a good looking film throughout . Forget about any real scares as the comedy stuff dilutes it too much for it to be wholly effective . There is some decent gore , lots of spraying blood , brains , eyes , severed hands , zombies getting their heads shot off , aliens emerging from someones mouth & a guy hanging up with his chest cut open exposing his ribcage . Technically the film is good , some of the sets are a bit limited , it tries to remake Alien using two sets for instance . The special effects range from impressive to poor especially the rubbery looking alien & the awful Godzilla . The acting is campy which suits the material . The likes of David Carradine , Bruce Campbell , Marina Sirtis , John Ireland , Alexander Gudunov & Drew Barrymore all turn up in roles . Waxwork II : Lost in Time is a fun , entertaining film that most horror fans will surely enjoy to some extent . I'm not sure about some of the juvenile silly comedy but nothings perfect , right ? Not as good or gory as the original & doesn't contain any waxworks at all but I think it's still well worth a watch , definitely recommended .
Underrated horror film that relies on good storytelling .	The film opens to a quite street scene in Potter's Buff , a small , peaceful , ordinary seaside town in California . We then cut to a beach . George LeMoyne ( Christopher Allport ) , a professional photographer from St . Louis is on vacation . He starts to take pictures of the beach and coastline . He notices a ( very ) pretty young lady ( Lisa Blount ) who flirts with him , and gets her breasts out . Suddenly he is attacked , beaten and tied to a post with an old fishing net by a group of the townsfolk . They take photo's of him as one of them pours petrol over him . They set him on fire . Later he is found in his burnt out camper van , initially the towns Sheriff , Dan Gillis ( James Farentino ) believes it to be a traffic accident but he soon gets evidence from the local mortician William Dobbs ( Jack Albertson ) that foul play might be involved . Later that night a fisherman ( Ed Bakey ) is murdered . The Sheriff doesn't know whats happening . He accidentally hits a man with his police jeep . He jumps out to help him , but finds the guys severed arm stuck to the grill on the front of his vehicle , still moving . The man hits Gillis round the head , takes his arm and runs away . More dead bodies turn up , and when the test results from the skin fragments from his grill come back not as expected the Sheriff must put the pieces together and solve the puzzle , but will it be too late to save himself and his wife , Janet ( Melody Anderson ) ? Directed by Gary Sherman this is a fine horror film that is a lesson in good storytelling . The script by Dan O'Bannon and Ronald Shusett is fantastic , it reveals it's twist and turns perfectly . Everything comes together really well in the revealing twist ending . Great characters , great atmosphere and great horror sequences . The special effects by Stan Winston are predictably solid , burnt corpse , a hypodermic syringe in some unlucky guys eyeball , a slashed throat , an autopsy , and someones face burnt with acid . The acting is good as well , Farentino , Anderson and the local creepy mortician Albertson play their parts well . The films main plus is that story , and how it builds up to the surprising twist climax , so as long as your prepared to listen and concentrate this film should reward you . Just don't think about or analyze it too much , either . A great horror film , I unreservedly recommend it to all . Watch it , now .
I love this film , maybe the most entertaining Die Hard of them all .	Die Hard : With a Vengeance is set in New York City where cop Lieutenant John McClane ( Bruce Willis ) gets caught up in a deadly game of cat & mouse with mad terrorist bomber Simon Gruber ( Jeremy Irons ) , holding the city & police department to ransom with the threat of large bombs going off in very public places John is forced to go along with whatever Simon says , also along for the ride is Zeus Carver ( Samuel L . Jackson ) who inadvertently helped McClane escape from one of Simon's traps & becomes part of his game . As McClane & Zues race around the city doing everything Simon says the police are busy searching schools for a huge bomb planted in one Simon's attention turns to the Federal Gold Reserve which has been left totally unguarded . . . Co-produced & directed by John McTiernan I will say straight away that Die Hard : With a Vengeance is my favourite Die Hard film , I will maybe accept that the original Die Hard ( 1988 ) is perhaps the slightly better film but as far as I'm concerned I think Die Hard : With a Vengeance is my overall favourite & I'd sooner sit down & watch this again than sit down & watch the original again . The script by Jonathan Hensleigh is the single most action packed film I've ever seen , from the opening couple of minutes which we gets some cool views of New York City which is suddenly & unexpectedly interrupted by a huge bomb going off to an action packed climax featuring an exploding helicopter & McClane uttering his iconic line ' yippie-kay-yay mother f-cker ' Die Hard : With a Vengeance never , & I mean never lets up for a second . Beside being the most action packed film I've seen Die Hard : With a Vengeance wisely tries to do something different with the whole Die Hard scenario , after Die Hard 2 ( 1990 ) which was very similar to the original film Die Hard : With a Vengeance feels much fresher , the whole Christmas thing is absent , McClane's annoying wife is nowhere to be seen neither is that reporter Dick Thornberg & the film isn't tied down to a single location as the action takes place all over New York state . I also think it was a great move to give McClane a sidekick to work against , the fact Zeus is black & there's a certain racial tension between them is used to very funny effect & the whole mismatched partner thing has been done to death but rarely as good as it is here . I just love this film & I cannot think of one single bad thing to say about it , it moves like a rocket , there's enough action to fill a dozen lesser Hollywood blockbusters , it also has a nice edge to it as there's some funny dialogue & plenty of bad language as well as plenty of hard bloody violence which the latest in the series Live Free or Die Hard ( 2007 ) was sorely lacking . Director McTiernan is back on-board after directing the original Die Hard & he turns in a breathless roller-coaster ride of an action flick , has it ever been bettered in terms of pure adrenaline pumping action scenes ? The only time it became really silly was when McClane & Zeus seemingly fall 100's of feet onto a metal cargo ship container which in reality would have broken every bone in their bodies but hey , it's just a film right ? Almost every type of action sequence you can think of is here , car chases , shoot-outs , fights , huge explosions , jumping onto moving trains & boats , surfing on top of huge dumper trucks ( ! ) , train wrecks & a taxi ride through Central Park in a cool sequence amongst many cool sequences . The violence is pretty hard & bloody at times , from slashed throats to bad guy's having their heads shot off . The profanity is also very strong ( as long as your not watching one of the awful censored UK versions ) with the constant use of the ' F ' word , it does lead to some very funny dialogue & exchanges between character's though ! With a supposed budget of about $90 , 000 , 000 one has to say you can see all that on screen , in fact watching it again last night I would have thought it was a 100 plus million budgeted film . Considering past events I very much doubt a film about a mad terrorist setting off bombs in New York would get made today , luckily it was made in ' 96 so we weren't denied one of the greatest action films ever due to unfortunate events . Willis was paid a cool 15 million to reprise his role & he puts in a great performance , no-one can say a one-liner like him ! Samuel L . Jackson is very funny as well & puts in another fine performance , I could just watch these two shout , swear & argue with each other all day ! Die Hard : With a Vengeance is in my humble opinion maybe the greatest action film from the 90's & certainly one of the best ever made , it's literally none stop . I mean if you want action then this is the film for you , I honestly can't think of anything bad to say about it . To my eyes Die Hard : With a Vengeance is just about the perfect action film & it's as simple & straight forward as that .
Gore drenched sequel , well worth watching .	The first and only decent sequel to Clive Barkers impressive original Hellraiser . Hellbound : Hellraiser 2 starts almost immediately after the event of the original . After a brief recap of Hellraiser up to this point featuring footage form the original , we see another unsuspecting victim , Captain Elliot Spencer ( Doug Bradley without his Pinhead special make up effects applied ) solve the mystery of the Chinese puzzle box and is impaled with hooks that tear his skin , razors cut lines in his head and an unseen thing inserts long pins into his scalp and thus creating Pinhead ( Doug Bradley with the make up ) , the lead Cenobite from the Hellraiser films . Kirsty ( Ashley Laurence again ) is seen in a hospital room , the police have discovered rotting maggot infested corpses in Kirstys dads house , like the original in its uncut version this film is very gory and explicit . A detective named Ronson ( Angus MacInnes ) questions Kirsty , she doesn't make much sense to him , speaking of demons and that her dad is trapped in hell and still suffering . The detective doesn't believe it and hands her over to Dr Channard ( Kenneth Cranham ) . Channard uses the information he gets from Kirsty to re-animate Julia ( the returning Clare Higgins ) . He also uses a patient under his care named Tiffany ( Imogen Boorman ) to solve the puzzle of the box and reopen the door to hell , Pinhead and his Cenobite friends from the original , the Butterball Cenobite ( Simon Bamford ) , the Chatterer Cenobite ( Nicholas Vince ) and the female Cenobite ( Barbie Wilde , who I've met in real life by the way ! ) also make an appearance and join the fun . Kirsty discovers what Channard is doing and follows him into hell to try and save her dad . Frank Cotton ( Sean Chapman another returning cast member from the original ) also turns up and soon after loses his heart and skin at the hands of a vengeful Julia . Channard gets turned into a Cenobite and all hell starts to break lose . This time directed by Tony Randel , Hellbound is another impressive film , it recaptures the dark feel and hellish atmosphere of the original . Once again the special make up effects are explicit and well done , people slicing themselves up with straight razors in a very nasty scene , more skinless people and corpses , slit throats , hand amputations , brain surgery and all sorts of other bodily mutilation are presented for our viewing pleasure in the uncut version , which is the one I'm reviewing here . The script co-written by Barker keeps thing moving nicely , even though someone should tell them police officers don't carry guns in the UK , towards the start of the movie a police man while searching the house from the original gets scared by a corpse that falls out of a wardrobe and proceeds to shoot it several times , as I said the police in the UK don't carry guns , I know I've lived here all my life ! A very minor complaint . This time the film is mostly set in Hell and we get lots of perverse imagery to convince us . I especially like the juggler who's using his own eyeballs to juggle with . After this the Hellraiser franchise went down hill , becoming too Americanized , part 3 for instance was set in an American city and featured Pinhead and his Cenobites killing lots of teenagers , just like countless other soulless unoriginal slasher films . Hellbound : Hellraiser 2 in my opinion is the only worthy sequel to the original , its dark and has the same perverse atmosphere , it features even more blood gore and mutilation and doesn't feature stupid teenagers been hacked up . A very entertaining horror film for those with the stomach . I liked this just as much as the original , high praise . The version I watched was the recent British special edition DVD from Anchor Bay UK , which is the uncut version , the only way to watch it as far as I'm concerned . Recommended .
" Some things are better left as they are . . . " Brilliantly creepy horror .	Don't Be Afraid of the Dark has Sally Farnham ( Kim Darby ) inheriting a large house that belonged to her Grandparents . Sally & her career minded husband Alex ( Jim Hutton ) move in & start to decorate & tidy up the old house , they hire local handyman Mr . Harris ( William Demarest ) to help . One day Sally investigates what's in the basement & discovers an old fireplace that has been bricked up , Sally considers turning the basement into a study & unblocking the fireplace despite Mr . Harris's warnings to leave it alone . Sally becomes curious about the fireplace & unbolts the ash door on it's side but sees nothing . Sally is unaware of what she has done , she has freed some creatures who start to terrorise her , threaten her , scare her & try to harm her . Nobody believes Sally about the creatures , not Alex & not her best friend Joan Kahn ( Barbara Anderson ) who think she is losing her mind . Only Mr . Harris seems to know the truth , what do these creatures want ? This made for TV film was directed by John Newland & is one that seems to stay with people for a long time . I first saw Don't Be Afraid of the Dark at least fifteen years ago on late night TV but still remembered it until I saw it again only last night , the film has always stayed with me & it's one of the few horror film I can genuinely say scared me , Don't Be Afraid of the dark is my 500th film comment on the IMDb & I couldn't have picked a better film , period . Time has been quite kind to it & Don't Be Afraid of the Dark is still an excellent & highly effective piece of horror . The script by Nigel McKeand moves like a rocket & it instantly grips the viewer with an opening consisting of a dark windy night & creepy whispering voices belonging to something . . . The character's are good & we know enough about them to care & like them . There are just so many scenes which make Don't Be Afraid of the Dark work , the quick glimpses of the freaky looking creatures , the bricked up fireplace just looks ominous & you know something unpleasant is waiting within & the downbeat climax . I happen think Don't Be Afraid of the Dark works superbly because it plays on our basic fear that something may be in our home , a place where we normally feel the safest , something that wants to harm us waiting in the dark , in a corner or hidden away behind a fireplace , you may want to sleep with the lights on after watching this film . . . Having said that hardened adults brought up on extreme blood , violence & fancy special effects may find it a little silly & not that scary , although most children probably won't sleep for a week ! Director Newland piles on the atmosphere with a great old spooky house , dark windy nights , those wonderful & memorable creatures with their eerie whispering voices who are some of the scariest & creepiest in all of horror film history ! Newland also directs with accomplishment that manages to make Don't Be Afraid of the Dark look more like a theatrical release rather than the low budget made-for-TV film that it is . Instead of blood , gore & fancy special effects Newland goes for good solid & scary storytelling . Technically Don't Be Afraid of the Dark is very good , photography , music & production values are fine , the special effects are also worth mentioning as they are actually very impressive . The creatures themselves are convincing & worth watching the film for on their own . The acting is good by everyone involved . I think Don't Be Afraid of the Dark is a brilliant piece of film-making , it plays one of our most basic fears to perfection during it's short 70 odd minute duration , it's creepy as hell & a film I will never forget as it probably turned me into the type of horror film fanatic that I am these days . I order you to track a copy of Don't Be Afraid of the Dark down , sit back , turn the lights off & enjoy ! Highly recommend , enough said .
The Sci-Fi horror film that set the standard all others have to match .	Alien starts with the seven crew-members of the huge commercial spaceship the Nostromo being awoken from their sleep . It quickly turns out that the ship's computer named Mother has received a ' transmission of unknown origin ' & has woken everyone to investigate . The crew set off in a smaller craft to the planet where the transmission is being sent from , once there Captain Dallas ( Tom Skerritt ) , Kane ( John Hurt ) & Lambert ( Veronica Cartwright ) don their spacesuits & go to track the source of the transmission down . Ripley ( Sigourney Weaver ) & the chief science officer Ash ( Ian Holm ) stay behind & co-ordinate things . Dallas , Kane & Lambert discover an alien ship & inside Kane is lowered into a huge chamber full of eggs one of which opens & a creature attachés itself to his face . Back on board the Nostromo Kane is given medical treatment but the creature cannot be removed & it has acid for blood . Eventually the creature seems to come off by itself & Kane regains consciousness & appears fine . However while eating dinner Kane has a fit as an alien creature bursts out of his chest . The crew decide they must arm themselves & the two engineers Parker ( Yaphet Kotto ) & Brett ( Harry Dean Stanton ) manage to come up with some basic weapons , they all quickly discover this alien has grown to an enormous size & is very hostile . . . Directed by Ridley Scott Alien really is just about the best of it's type , period . The script by Dan O'Bannon is a little slow to get going by todays standards but I felt this build up is essential as Scott piles on the tension , isolation & mistrust among the crew before they are systematically hunted down by a seemingly invincible killing machine that is the alien . You feel for the characters of which there are only seven during the whole film which makes what happens even more effective . While the pace may be measured Alien is never boring & it provides terrific scary entertainment , even after all this time I think it still manages to be creepy , frightening & very effective at what it sets out to do . Technically Alien is top-notch , a lot of the special effects hold up very well even today next to all the flashy soulless CGI that fill films up . Obviously a few are a little unconvincing but I can easily forgive this , I mean it was made over 25 years ago wasn't it ? The production design is great as well , Alien doesn't depict it's spacecraft as sterile white & perfectly clean but as something far more realistic , all the dirt , grime & grated floors that look like a mining ship would . Having said that some of the computer equipment looks a little dated even now which along with the slightly slow pace is my only real complaint . The alien itself was designed by H . R . Giger & looks very impressive , very organic & menacing even though it isn't seen that much it's definitely one of the most memorable of all on screen aliens . Director Scott also manages to use sound & music to good effect , I found Alien quite a quiet film which works well . There isn't much in the way of blood or gore , just that alien bursting out of Hurt's chest . The acting is great from all involved & director Scott manages to retain an air of mystery about who will survive as he gives no obvious indication of a hero type character . Alien is a true classic , the chest-burster scene will live on forever & it's a film everyone should see at least once . Watch it as soon as you can .
My favourite Italian cannibal flick .	Ultimo Mondo Cannibale , or maybe Jungle Holocaust , Last Cannibal World or simply Cannibal as it's also known amongst English speaking audiences , starts as Robert Harper ( Massimo Foschi ) the owner of an oil company & his friend Rolf ( Ivan Rassimov ) land on an island called Mindanao expecting to be greeted by a team of people scouting for oil . While landing the plane is damaged & loses a wheel , the runway is overgrown & the camp completely deserted . Upon exploration of the surrounding area Robert & Rolf witness native cannibals feasting on human remains & put two & two together & decide to leave Mindanao as soon as possible but while the pilot Charlie ( Sheik Razak Shikur ) fixed the plane it is too late to take off , during the night Charlie's woman Swan ( Judy Rosly ) disappears & the next day Cahrlie , Robert & Rolf search for her . Charlie is killed by a native booby trap & Robert & Rolf become hopelessly lost , somehow they have to survive the harsh brutal reality & perils of the jungle as well as the cannibal natives . . . This Italian production was directed by Ruggero Deodato & is perhaps my absolute favourite Italian cannibal flick . The script by Tito Carpi , Gianfranco Clerici & Renzo Genta is apparently based on a true story although I would suspect that's highly debatable , anyway I will openly & freely admit right now that I love Ultimo Mondo Cannibale ( I like the Last Cannibal World re-title ) complete with all it's unpleasantness . For a start I think this has as strong a story as any other cannibal film , I also think it's my favourite story from all the Italian cannibal films . The basic premise of civilised man having to survive in the brutal jungle is just great & it's brilliantly portrayed here , it's a very harsh & unforgiving film just like nature itself & I just liked the whole primitive stone-age survival story & it's a lot more interesting & entertaining than many other Italian cannibal films . However Ultimo Mondo Cannibale doesn't disappoint in the nastiness stakes either , there's as graphic scenes of cannibalism as in any film I've seen , there's plenty of controversial animal killings , there's rape , murder , gore , torture & loads of nudity to offend those with weak constitutions or sensibilities . It moves along at a great pace , there's not much dialogue as this is a film where the story is told through actions rather than talk & I think it's a highly watchable dirty nasty little exploitation flick the likes of which they don't / can't / won't make anymore , unfortunately . . . Director Deodato does a good job & Ultimo Mondo Cannibale is more than just a Cannibal Holocaust ( 1980 ) rehearsal , I actually prefer this film to Deodato's supposed classic . Deodato uses the harsh thick jungle to good effect , he manages to make the jungle & everything it a real threat as there is a real sense of hopelessness surrounding Robert & his situation . I love the location which was the Philippines in Malaysia & they make for a brilliant backdrop in which the gory action takes place . The native cannibals themselves actually look like a real tribe untouched by modern civilisation . There is a lot of male & female nudity in Ultimo Mondo Cannibale from both old & young . There are some top gore scenes in this , probably about as graphic a cannibal sequences ever shown including decapitations , disembowelling , flesh eating , a scene when some natives arm is eaten down to the bone by ants , mutilated bodies & limbs as well as the expected animal killings which include a snake eating a lizard , a snake eating a bat , a snake having it's head bashed in & a crocodile being killed & gutted . A lot of people complain about the real animal death's in these cannibal flicks , personally I think a lot of these people are hypocrite's & a large percentage probably eat meat for which an animal has to be killed & it's as simple & straight forward as that . I mean I just think these people are cowards & have an ' out of sight , out of mind ' attitude , I bet there's more suffering in slaughterhouses throughout the world in one day than in all the Italian cannibal flicks put together . Technically the film is great , I love the way it's shot with really nice 2 : 35 : 1 widescreen cinematography that showcases the jungle locations . The acting is very strong here with Foschi standing out , Me Me Lai would go on to appear in Umberto Lenzi's cannibal flick Eaten Alive ( 1980 ) as would Ivan Rassimov who also appeared in the very first Italian cannibal flick Deep River Savages ( 1972 ) . Ultimo Mondo Cannibale is my my favourite of all the Italian cannibal films , I just think the mixture of the extreme gore & violence coupled with the strong acting & engaging story beats everything else in this short lived sub genre the Italians had all to themselves . I thought it was brilliant but it certainly isn't a film for everyone , particularly not for those with a nervous disposition or who are squeamish . Economy conscious director Umberto Lenzi edited huge chunks of this into his own Eaten Alive which is probably why he casted two of it's stars as well .
An almost forgotten gem . . .	The Trap Door was a children's TV show that ran for 2 seasons & was aired here in the UK during the 80's & as with many other people it has stayed with me for many , many years even remembering specific scenes & episodes over a decade since I first saw them . Well , like any sensible person who remember this fantastic series with any fondness I jumped at the chance of buying the British DVD which contains all 40 episodes , I sat down this afternoon & watched them all back-to-back , that's over 3 hours worth & I loved very minute of this funny trip down memory lane . The story is simple , the cuddly blue Berk & his friends the disembodied skull Boni & they're pet bug Drutt all live together in a big castle owned by ' the thing upstairs ' ( all hilariously voiced by Willie Rushton ) whom Berk serves . The 40 short episodes tell the tales that the friends get up to & the horrible things that emerge from the trap door . . . The series uses stop motion animation & it looks like they used plasticine , you can almost smell it ! It's obvious that so much effort went in every shot , there are so many things happening all over the screen from little bugs & worms that slither & slide all over the place to the character reactions The Trap Door is a real joy to watch not only once but again & again . On a negative side the stories are too short & stop as soon as they get going , although to be fair it was probably commissioned for TV & a certain time slot to fill the schedule so the makers were probably working to specific requirements . All credit to them though as they have created something a bit special here , something charming , something funny , something endearing & the fact I doubt you will ever hear anyone whose ever seen an episode ever say anything bad about it more or less proves it . I'm sure people of all ages will find much here to enjoy & I can't recommend it enough . The character's are cute & extremely likable , there's some very funny dialogue ( I love how Berk refers to the monsters from the trap door as ' things ' like that flying thing , that little thing , that ' orrible thing or that lumpy thing ) , the monsters from the trap door are suitably slimy & icky & the theme tune is absolutely brilliant too ! In fact I love the episode where Berk finds a radio & when he turns it on The Trap Door theme tune plays & the whole episode revolves around it . The episode where ' the thing upstairs ' eyeball rolls down into the trap door & Berk has to fetch it & ends up in the huge mouth of a giant monster is also a favourite of mine . What more can I say ? It has a fabulous sense of humour , it's twisted in a funny way , it's brilliantly made on what were probably meagre funds & I have never seen a bad word written about it . I think I've run out of superlatives for it , quite simply find a copy of the DVD & watch all 40 episodes as soon as possible . One more thing , with regard to that DVD each episode is presented without the opening theme which is presented as an ' extra ' on the disc instead which I have to say annoyed me immensely as it's brilliant & a very important part of the show . On Monday morning I'm going to take this into work & lend it to my friend Kelly ( she's too young to have seen it on TV the first time around ) , she's going to love it ! I hope . . .
Splendid documentary .	Whose Doctor Who is a 60 odd minute documentary made & aired by the BBC here in the UK where presenter Melvyn Bragg takes a look at the first 14 years of the long running sci-fi program & it's effects on society . First thing to say is this is probably quite rare although it can be found on the British region 2 BBC 2 disc DVD of Doctor Who : The Talons of Weng-Chiang ( 1977 ) which any self respecting fan will have anyway . The main reason this documentary was included on that particular Doctor Who adventure was that they both originally aired around the same time & that Whose Doctor Who features lots of fascinating behind-the-scenes footage from the making of The Talons of Weng-Chiang which are absolute gold dust for me as it's one of my favourite stories , there is lots of footage on set discussing & creating the special effects & interviews with some of the makers along with rehearsal footage . This documentary also features many isolated interviews by various contributors including people described by on screen captions as ' Educationalists ' whatever they are . Unfortunately there's various sound-bites from annoying children who really aren't taking things that seriously & have bad English skills . There is also a child psychologist who gives his thoughts on the series & it's effects . These interviews are decent enough but you can't help think some of the participants slightly play the significance of the series up , I mean it's a fun show but it's hardly a life-changing or deeply meaningful one is it ? There are also plenty of clips from previous stories although it felt very odd to not see any Doctor beyond Tom Baker obviously because this was made back in 1977 when there only had been four . Interestingly some of the clips from the Jon Pertwee era are in really poor quality black and white while other's are in good quality colour so I guess the BBC had wiped some of those episodes & at that time only had access to the poor quality black and white footage . So summing up this is a fantastic documentary with some brilliant & raw behind-the-scenes footage that covers many aspects of the making of The Talons of Weng-Chiang , another aspect of Whose Doctor Who which I like & is refreshing is that it is seems to be an independent look at the series without a hidden agenda rather than a self gratifying back patting exercise in shameless promotion & butt kissing . As a free extra on a brilliant DVD this is great stuff & if you have the DVD then give this one a watch if you haven't already & if indeed you haven't , why ?
" I'm fine . . . I broke my fall . " Absolutely hilarious to those with a slightly twisted sense of humour , like me . . .	Scary Movie 2 starts at ' Hell House ' as Father Mceely ( James Woods ) & Father Harris ( Andy Ritcher ) perform an exorcism on the possessed Megan Voorhees ( Natasha Lyonne ) . . . Jump ' One Year Later ' where professor Oldman ( Tim Curry ) & his wheelchair bound assistant Dwight Hartman ( David Cross ) select various students to accompany them to Hell House to experience & measure paranormal activity . Cindy Campbell ( Anna Faris ) , Buddy ( Chris Masterson ) , Brenda ( Regina Hall ) & Shorty Meeks ( co-writer Marlon Wayans ) , Ray Wilkins ( co-writer Shawn Wayans ) , Theo ( Kathleen Robertson ) & Alex Monday ( Tori Spelling ) are all told by professor Oldman that they have been selected to stay at Hell House for a weekend to study various sleep disorders for a school project . Once there they discover the freakish servant Hanson ( Chris Elliott ) who quickly becomes the least of their worries are they encounter the evil ghost of the previous owner Hugh Kane ( Richard Moll ) & a whole host of other spooky goings on . . . Directed by Keenan Ivory Wayans Scary Movie 2 was the first sequel to the horror spoof Scary Movie ( 2000 ) , the series is now up to Scary Movie 4 ( 2006 ) , & I personally thought it was better than the original & quite simply I found it totally hilarious . The script by Marlon Wayans , Shawn Wayans , Alyson Fouse , Greg Grabianski , Dave Polsky , Michael Anthony Snowden & Craig Wayans spoofs just about every well known horror film there is from The Legend of Hell House ( 1973 ) , The Exorcist ( 1973 ) , Poltergeist ( 1982 ) , The Shining ( 1980 ) , Hollow Man ( 2000 ) to Hannibal ( 2001 ) & it spoofs all other sorts of film from various genres like Charlies Angels ( 2000 ) , Harry Potter , Mission : Impossible II ( 2000 ) , Rocky ( 1976 ) & Dirty Harry ( 1971 ) to name but a few . I must admit I had a great time trying to spot them all & I'm sure any film buff would , although I doubt many film buffs would agree with the way Scary Movie 2 treats these classic films . There are also some swipes at a few topical issues that were prevalent back then like the Bill Clinton ' affair ' . At only 85 odd minutes long Scary Movie 2 moves along like a rocket with a constant stream of bad taste & gross out gags that I just found really funny , I haven't laughed so much during a film for ages , I don't really know what that says about me & frankly I don't care either . Director Wayans keeps the humour coming thick & fast , he seems to want cater for the lowest common denominator with a succession of gross bad taste gags from toilet humour , poo , fart , puke , spunk , sex , masturbation , drugs , paedophile priests , racism , sexism , gay jokes , a ghost helping himself to a blow-job in a pretty female students mouth , plenty of foul language including a funny Budgie & even the disabled aren't safe as Scary Movie 2 is one of the most politically incorrect films I've ever seen . There are plenty of jokes in Scary Movie 2 that I would imagine many would find offencive which is fine I suppose but I will openly say right now that I found the disabled jokes funny , the racist humour amusing & all the bad taste gags hilarious & frankly I have no problem saying that although I would imagine many would . It doesn't make me a racist or look down on those with disability , I think the whole world's gone political correctness mad anyway . With a supposed budget of $45 , 000 , 000 Scary Movie 2 very well made with great special effects & loving recreation of various classic scenes from films . The acting was good & everyone played their parts really well whether they were serious or campy & that Anna Faris is really rather hot . I loved Scary Movie 2 , I found it hilarious , it's as simple & straight forward as that . In a world that's gone mad with political correctness Scary Movie 2 isn't afraid to poke fun at just about anything & seems to have no boundaries , I really can't remember laughing so much during a film , I really can't . If your prudish or easily offended then avoid Scary Movie 2 like the plague but if you like crude juvenile gross out humour then it's an absolute must see !
" You looked in the mirror lately ? Now's not the time to get picky . " Wonderful horror with lashings of dark humour .	Bride of Chucky starts late one night as Officer Bob Bailey ( Vince Corazza ) sneaks into the evidence room at his police station & amongst all the horror film in joke props he steals the remains of the Chucky doll that serial killer Charles Lee Ray possessed way back in the original Child's Play ( 1988 ) . He drives the remains to an isolated area where Ray's ex girlfriend Tiffany ( Jennifer Tilly ) slashes Bailey's throat & takes the remains back to her trailer . There Tiffany stitches & staples Chucky ( voiced by Brad Dourif ) back together again & using a ' voodoo for dummies ' book brings him back to murderous life . Thing don't go as Tiffany had hoped & Chucky turns out not to be the man of her dreams after all so she locks him in a play pen at which Chucky is less than happy . While Tiffany takes a bath Chucky escapes , electrocutes her & using that book brings her back to life in the shape of a female doll dressed as a bride . Neither want to be stuck in plastic bodies & have to work together to get to a cemetery in New Jersey where Ray's natural body had been buried with the amulet needed to switch their spirits back into human bodies . The bodies of Tiffany's neighbour Jesse ( Nick Stabile ) & his girlfriend Jade ( Katherine Heigl ) , who are both on the run from Jade's corrupt uncle Chief of police Warren Kincaid ( John Ritter ) , will do nicely . . . Directed by Ronny Yu I love Bride of Chucky . The script by Don Mancini is great fun , very fast moving , highly entertaining & references plenty of other horror film with good affection . From the opening sequence where we see Jason Voorhees hockey mask from the Friday the 13th films , Freddy Krueger's razor blade glove from the A Nightmare on Elm Street series & Michael Myers mask from the Halloween franchise . To the clips used from Bride of Frankenstein ( 1935 ) when it virtually recreates the same scene . Bride of Chucky never takes itself seriously which is just as well , there are lots of one liners , self referential gags that Scream ( 1996 ) made trendy a few years earlier & it doesn't seem afraid to poke fun at itself & the horror genre in general . I love the scene when Jesse & Jade are having a clichéd slushy romantic conversation that Chucky hears & he makes funny derogatory comments & gestures throughout . That's not to say that there isn't a damn good film in there as well because there most certainly is . Director Yu manages to create good atmosphere & a real sense of fun , both human & plastic sets of characters are likable & shine as each pair suffer their own sets of domestic problems that the trail of corpses that they are leaving behind would obviously cause . Technically Bride of Chucky is great for the most part & has that big budget polish about it & at about $25 , 000 , 000 I should hope so . The only thing that I will say is that some of the puppet effects by Kevin Yagher are a little stiff & unconvincing , I can't remember any CGI scenes in Bride of Chucky either . Thankfully the film doesn't neglect the blood & gore with a cool slit throat , nails blasted into someone's face in presumably a Hellraiser ( 1987 ) homage , people impaled on shards of glass , someone being bloodily obliterated by a huge truck , a ripped off lip piercing & various stabbings & gunshots . The acting is pretty good & Dourif as Chucky is very funny as he spouts the one liners out . I also like the scenes with Tiffany at the beginning & find her very sexy when she's wearing all that fetish gear , I can't be the only one surely ? I personally think Bride of Chucky is a fantastic film , total entertainment from start to finish , great humour & horror in equal measure & at only 85 minutes long it never becomes boring or dull . A personal favourite of mine , watch it as soon as you can !
" Why would anyone watch a scum show like Videodrome ? " Possibly Cronenberg's best .	Videodrome is set in Toronto , Canada where Max Renn ( James Woods ) runs a cable TV station called Civic TV which specialises in murder , gore , death & sex . In his pursuit to find ever harder & nastier material Max has his technician Harlan ( Peter Dvorsky ) illegally probe the airwaves for programmes , Harlan says he picked up a broadcast of a pirate TV show called ' Vidodrome ' which is just shockingly realistic footage of murder , torture & mutilation . Max becomes fascinated with Videodrome & is determined to get the show on his channel , he ask's around about the origins of the show & is soon contacted by a man name Barry Convex ( Les Carlson ) who tells Max that Videodrome broadcasts a signal which makes a tumour grow inside the viewers head & depending on the content of the show produces hallucinations . Convex goes on to say that his organisation intends to broadcast Videodrome & kill off all the lowlifes in society who would want to watch such filth starting with the viewers of Civic TV . . . This Canadian American co-production was written & directed by David Cronenberg & for my money is maybe the best film he's ever made along with the remake of The Fly ( 1986 ) although that's a debatable issue , anyway what isn't debatable a far as I'm concerned is that Videodrome is a brilliant film & easily the best of his early works . The script is very intelligent & obviously tackles the relevant close-to-home issue of what we watch on TV & how it's used to manipulate us , it just makes the unnerving analogy that TV influences us in almost every-way including our health in a extremely effective way . Videodrome also makes the interesting point that violence on our screens may have an effect on our own behaviour & make society more violent in itself but at the same time also promotes the idea that on screen violence satisfies our own violent desires summed up by the great line " better on TV than the streets " . Then there's the shadowy organisation headed up by Barry Convex just to add a nice sinister little conspiracy theory to the narrative . The dialogue is sharp , clever & knowing as is the whole film , there's much here to take in & digest , in fact I've seen Videodrome four times now the most recent being last night & I still saw & ' got ' things I hadn't previously . I love how the film pans out , how the character's end up , how things aren't quite what they seem & that if you were to show it to ten different people there could possibly be ten different interpretations of it . A real quality film , it's as simple & straight forward as that . The only negative thing I can say is that it's definitely not a film for everyone & I felt a bit cheated by the annoyingly abrupt ending although I don't really know what else Cronenberg could have done . Director Cronenberg dos a great job here , there's a really sleazy atmosphere about it , thee's the expected twisted surreal imagery that works perfectly especially the cool scenes where Max has a grotesque living videotape inserted into a slit in his stomach . Being a Cronenberg film Videodrome doesn't shy away from some decent gore , there's some gory gunshot wounds , an ear piercing , plenty of torture , someone has half their arm taken off & a scene where someone explodes from the inside & their guts & brains erupt from their body . With a supposed budget of about $5 , 592 , 000 ( which actually sounds like quite a lot of money ) Videodrome didn't set the box-office on fire which is a shame as it's a class film , it's very well made with some terrific special effects & clever ideas , I also thought the music was excellent & very moody . According to the IMDb the trailer fro Videodrome was made almost entirely on a Commodore 64 , obviously when I read this I had to take a look at it & besides being one of the most bizarre trailers ever it's obvious that the studio didn't know how to advertise it & maybe that's one reason why it didn't do better at theatres . The acting is great by all involved especially James Woods who is completely brilliant , Debbie Harry doesn't actually get that much screen time . Videodrome is a brilliant horror sci-fi thriller that has plenty to say although sometimes not always coherently but that was half the fun for me , to try & unravel what Cronenbrg is trying to say & the message he is trying to get across plus it adds to it's re-watch appeal . An intelligent well thought-out & complex film that with lots of ideas & themes that Cronenberg would latter re-use in eXistenz ( 1999 ) which shares quite a few similarities with Videodrome but isn't as good . For those who are looking for something different & twisted Videodrome is the film for you .
" All the juice I can carry . . . " Top notch Post Apocalyptic action .	Mad Max 2 is set in a post apocalyptic Australia after World War III has left the landscape a barren wasteland ruled by thieves , murderers , scavengers & general scum . Max ( Mel Gibson ) drives along in his V-8 Interceptor with his dog trying to keep out of trouble & simply survive , gasoline has become the new currency & is in short supply so when Max stumbles upon a small community who refine gasoline & have loads of it he tries to do a deal with them to fill his car up & get as much juice as he can carry . However a gang of thugs & killers lead by Lord Humungus ( Kjell Nilsson ) want the refinery for themselves & will kill to get it , Max becomes involved & agrees to help the community out . . . This Autralian production was co-written & directed by George Miller & was the second in the Mad Max trilogy of films & in my humble yet worthwhile opinion is easily the best of the three . The script by Miller , Terry Hayes & Brian Hannant is a fantastic action flick from start to finish , it's a ' pure ' & ' raw ' action film in the sense there's a simple yet effective story in which the makers have crafted some truly exhilarating stunts & actions scenes around . The character's are surprisingly well developed & fleshed out considering there is actually very little dialogue with Max himself a man of few words , this works well though . The film moves along like a rocket at 95 odd minutes there's barely time to catch your breath before the next explosion or car chase . I loved it from start to finish , the explosions , the car chases , the wanton destruction , the vehicular mayhem , the violence & there's even a very good story here as well . I watched this last night on cable TV & the announcer said ' Now it's Mad Max 2 which contains strong language & violence ' then he paused for a few seconds & then in a very self assured voice said ' It's like Waterwolrd but better ' ! He was right on all counts & this is just an absolute top action film without any one-liners , silly romances or stupid sub plots that get in the way & slow things down . Director Miller obviously used the experience he gained on the original Mad Max ( 1979 ) on this sequel & improved everything along with making the explosions bigger & the stunt work better , the stunt work is amazing without any CGI computer effects in sight . Everything was done as a physical stunt on set & it looks brilliant , the final chase with the truck & the gang has to be maybe my favourite vehicle chase ever . There's lots of individual scenes which are just works of art in the action film genre in Mad Max 2 , there is also one of the biggest explosions your ever likely to see on film at the end as the compound is blown to ( very little ) pieces . I don't know how I can praise it more to be honest . Then there's the wonderfully realised post apocalyptic setting , obviously a lot of Australia is a barren wasteland so in that regard it was shot in the right place but the costumes , guns , crossbows & vehicles just look right & haven't dated at all , if Mad Max 2 came out this week it would still look good & futuristic . I'm not sure about the homosexual tone some of the gang members have though . There isn't much graphic violence but there's enough here & the amazing stunt work more than compensates . There is one queasy scene though when Max eats a can of dog food & seems to be enjoying it a little too much . . . This was apparently the most expensive Australian film made up to that point & it shows with terrific production values . It's very well made with impressive sets & the already mentioned fantastic stunt work . The acting is as what it needs to be , Mel Gibson who wasn't a big star at the time does a decent job . Mad Max 2 is a fantastic old school action flick where stunt men & women actually put their lives on the line to produce some spectacular action scenes unlike these days of course where it's all computer effects so in that regard I doubt we'll see another film like it . Absolutely brilliant & it's one of my all time favourite action films .
" They took your wife away in a balloon ? You don't need the police pal you need a psychiatrist . " Brilliant .	Killer Klowns from Outer Space is set in the small Californian town of Cresent Cove where Mike ( Grant Cramer ) & his girlfriend Debbie ( Suzanne Snyder ) witness what they think is a shooting star land in some nearby woods , they decide to investigate & come across what looks like a huge Circus tent . They venture inside only to discover a room with what looks like cotton candy cocoon's hanging from rails , they take a closer look & discover that dead people are wrapped in the stuff . They run for their lives as large alien killer klowns chase them , they manage to escape & get back to town in an attempt to warn the local Sheriff ( John Allen Nelson ) but he understandably doesn't believe them when they talk of killer klowns from outer space . However it's true as the rest of Cresent Cove start to find out to their cost as these klowns intend to either have some fun by killing us in increasingly bizarre ways or cocoon us to use as food ! Co-written , co-produced & directed by Stephen Chiodo I think Killer Klowns from Outer Space has possibly the greatest film title ever & more importantly is total brilliance , it's twisted & bizarre & messed up & outlandish but it's still brilliant , this is probably my favourite horror comedy that I have seen & one of my very favourite films period . The script by brother's Stephen , Charles & Edward Chiodo moves along like a rocket , it never takes itself seriously & could easily be seen as an affectionate homage to the small town alien invasion sci-fi horror films of the 50's . I love it's twisted sense of humour , I love the messed up idea of these killer klowns who use all sorts of Circus & Carnival type tricks with a dark & sinister edge to them to kill people , from killer hand shadows to a lethal puppet show to fatal acid pie throwing ! I love it , the contrast between our normal concept of a clown being all funny & innocent is used to great effect as these klowns are pretty creepy . The various set-pieces have & show good imagination & are easily recognisable as to what clown routine is being twisted for evil purposes . The character's are OK although the Terenzi brother's in their ice cream van start to become annoying . I don't know what else to say really other than I love this film & just about everything about it . Director Chiodo does a great job on what was probably a low budget for such an ambitious film , first thing to say is that the killer klowns themselves look fantastic . They really do have the perfect blend of clown cuteness & dark ugly menace , I could watch these guys all night long . The special effects range from very impressive to just about the worst you've ever seen , the majority of the effects are very good with the klowns themselves standing out as being just plain brilliant creations & the huge ' klownzilla ' at the end is also impressive although the effect where the klown is riding thin air alongside the car is quite simply one of the most embarrassing effect scenes I've seen . Still , only one truly bad effect in a film such as this isn't bad going , is it ? The whole film has a nice dark sense of humour with a scene involving a klown using a dead body as a ventriloquist's dummy by sticking it's hand into the bodies back is particularly eerie & effective . The gore is tame , there's nothing more than a decapitated head & a melted skeleton . If you get the opportunity check out the funny music video by The Dickies to their ' Killer Klowns from Outer Space ' theme song , which I have on my iPod ! With supposed budget of $2 , 000 , 000 there's a lot to this film & you get the feeling a lot of time & effort was put into it . The production design is good with the interior of the killer klowns spaceship looking suitably psychedelic & colourful . I liked the soundtrack especially the erm , ' unique ' theme song by The Dickies . The acting was OK from an unknown cast but it's definitely the killer klowns who steal he show here . The late John Vernon makes an appearance as a bigoted cop . Killer Klowns from Outer Space is absolutely brilliant as far as I'm concerned , you know when you sit down to watch a film & everything works for you & you just end up loving it but your maybe not quite sure why , well that's Killer Klowns from Outer Space for me . I've seen Killer Klown from Outer Space numerous times now dating back to the late 80's & I've loved it every time I've seen it , I'm not sure I can recommend it to everyone as it probably takes a certain type of film-goer to appreciate it but it's a film that I adore on many levels , hell I even like the way they changed the word clown to klown in the title !
