Don't Waste Your Time Watching This .	Dave ( Devon Sawa ) and his friends Sam ( Jason Segel ) and Jeff ( Michael Maronna ) have scammed their way through college . When creepy Ethan ( Jason Schwartzman ) discovers their secret , he blackmails them into helping him score with beautiful , good-hearted student Angela ( James King ) . Stupid and incompetent " comedy " - a lot more groan-inducing than laugh-inducing . Movie tries appealing to its target audience with its disgusting gags - but NONE OF THEM WORK . What's more , it's full of worthless , unappealing characters - and Schwartzman's character is so repulsive he's a major turn-off . Movie even tries using 50's / 60's sexpot / actress Mamie Van Doren in the movie's most outrageous scene . YUCK ! ! ! Further bringing it down are its utter predictability and the waste ( yet again ) of veteran comedic actor Joe Flaherty's talent - when's this guy going to stop accepting every role that comes along and do something worthwhile ? All in all , the only thing I liked was James ( a . k . a . Jaime ) King , who was very appealing - and deserved better . This gets no more than from me .
Beverly Hills Nincompoop Is More Like It .	Haru ( Chris Farley ) is a white guy who washed up on the shores of Japan as a baby and is trained to be a ninja by the locals . As could be expected , he grows up to be an incompetent , clumsy bumbler . That doesn't stop him , however , from accepting an offer from California girl Allison ( Nicollette Sheridan ) to spy on her slimy English boyfriend ( Nathaniel Parker ) . I'm sorry , folks , but this is just plain AWFUL . I didn't like ANYTHING about this movie . It's full of standard Chris Farley comedy - tripping , crashing , breaking , flailing - all to no effect . Much of the cast doesn't look happy to be in the movie - and Chris Rock , funny guy that he is , is saddled with a STUPID role . Then again , I suppose if you do have an appreciation for what Farley does , you may be satisfied . Remember , this is just my opinion . ! ( My lowest rating ever since I started doing this ! )
" Fangs " actually makes 1999's " Bats " look good in comparison .	Fatally lame B-movie about genetically engineered bats that have been trained to attack certain people . In this small Anywhere , U . S . A . , type of town , a detective ( Tracy Nelson ) teams up with a veterinarian / animal control officer ( Whip Hubley ) to crack the mystery and save the townspeople . My initial assessment while watching this was that it's junk with absolutely nothing to recommend it . Bad direction , bad effects , bad acting , bad attempts at repartee , bad everything . Later on , it occurred to me that this might have been supposed to be a comedy , but even so , it doesn't work because it's so stupid and witless . I found myself rolling my eyes and shaking my head far too often . And by the way . . . the identity of the villain was FAR too easy to guess . Despite the presence of familiar faces , there's not a single performance that stands out . Top-billed Corbin Bernsen relentlessly hams it up as the stereotypically Slimy Developer . You can't do much worse than this , folks , and if you insist on watching it anyway , don't say I didn't warn you . " Fangs " is only for those who will try out ANYTHING they see on a rental store's shelf .
Not good !	Arty , pretentious , slow , boring , erotic thriller - not a real horror movie - about aloof , ageless Miriam ( Catherine Deneuve ) , who is supposedly some sort of vampire , who loses her longtime partner John ( David Bowie ) when he starts aging rapidly and can't stop , and then seeks out young doctor Sarah ( Susan Sarandon ) as a replacement . Ugh . . . I hated this movie . It's over-elaborate , yet surprisingly gory , junk that plods along as if it has all the time in the world . It begins like a decadent rock video , and just seemed incredibly self-indulgent to me for its entire running time . Some of the music performed on-screen is nice to listen to , but the only real value comes out of Bowie's effective performance and the makeup effects of Dick Smith , Carl Fullerton , and Antony Clavet . I suppose that the film is kind of nice to look at , but that's the last concession I'll make . Trust me , it's not worth sitting through the film if all you want to do is see Deneuve and Sarandon make out . Once Bowie is written out of the script , it ceases to be interesting . Familiar faces in the supporting cast include Cliff De Young , Dan Hedaya , Willem Dafoe , John Pankow , and Ann Magnuson .
Oh , joy . . . here comes Michael again . . .	After being seriously wounded at the end of " Halloween 4 " , Michael Myers is cared for by a well-meaning vagrant and comes back one year later to continue to stalk his youthful niece ( Danielle Harris ) . This movie is so annoying ! It did make me jump a few times , and that's the only reason I didn't give it a . Any chance it might have had to be scary is completely ruined . It's stupid and aggravating throughout , with worthless ( and in some cases unbearably annoying ) characters who are not worth caring about in the slightest . The only possible reason for this ineptly written movie would have been to continue to make money off the " Halloween " franchise . I don't think there is one iota of style in this movie or any true affection for the horror genre . It's brought down to the bottom , finally , by two comic-relief cops that just make me want to scream , they're so stupid . This is the kind of horror sequel that give horror sequels a bad name . Donald Pleasence looks very tired by this point . Inevitably ( and I don't know if I need to say SPOILER here , it's such a given ) the movie is given an open ending to pave the way for another sequel ( although it would be another six years or so before the next sequel would be made ) . TWO OUT OF TEN .
Where are the laughs ?	Incompetent and fatally boring slasher movie parody in which slovenly and stubborn cop Dick Harbinger ( Joe Don Baker ) is determined to apprehend the " Lawnmower Killer " who killed a few teenagers thirteen years earlier . A pre-'Newhart ' Julia Duffy is the heroine , and a young Andrew " Dice " Clay , in his movie debut , is a John Travolta clone named Tony Schlongini . I expected more from this , to tell you the truth . It features a number of familiar faces ( Baker , Stella Stevens , George Kennedy , Charles Napier , et al . ) who probably wouldn't be caught dead in a straight-faced movie of this kind . The cast was the major point of interest for me , but the script is absolutely worthless . I can't remember the last time I laughed so infrequently during a comedy . As a matter of fact , this is the sort of movie you laugh AT , not WITH , because it's so bad . If only the Zucker-Abrahams-Zucker comedy team had been willing to take a crack at making fun of slasher movies ( the first " Airplane ! " movie came out the year before this one ) , we might have actually had a decent slasher movie parody . I still have yet to review the 1982 movie " Pandemonium " ( I saw it a long time ago but can't remember much about it ) , but this dumb movie is probably the worst of the slasher movie parodies to emerge in the early 1980's .
Scraping the bottom of the barrel . . .	A high school track star falls dead after winning a race ; shortly after , her older sister ( Patch Mackenzie ) returns home in time to notice that all of her sister's track team members are disappearing . Who could the killer be ? You may not care enough to want to find out . Crude , cheap , amateurish slasher is just about completely worthless , although top-billed Christopher George ( as the nasty , hard-driving track coach ) tries to give it a lift with an intense performance . Not even the gore is worth mentioning . The whole thing is lame from beginning to end , starting with opening the movie to a track meet montage set to disco music , and the casting of E . J . Peaker , once a co-star of the movie " Hello , Dolly " as a character named " Blondie " ! That's right , " Blondie " . This may mean that we aren't supposed to take the movie seriously , but in any case it's a shambles . It's the kind of routine slasher junk that makes the " Friday the 13th " movies look like works of art in comparison . The only point of interest may be wanting to see an early film appearance by Vanna White , of all people .
Give it a rest , Moustapha Akkad !	After FINALLY , FINALLY dispatching his feisty sister Laurie Strode ( Jamie Lee Curtis , in an obligatory cameo role ) , Michael Myers ( Brad Loree ) hacks and slashes his way through the idiots who have won an opportunity to spend the night in his childhood home . Their whole experience - and eventual slaughter - is broadcast on the worldwide web by entrepreneur Freddie Harris ( Busta Rhymes ) . This is a frustratingly routine and mundane slasher movie and it's sickening to think how the greedy producers of this series will just refuse to let it rest ( a " Halloween 9 " is in the works , but that's hardly a surprise ) . Director Rick Rosenthal , who also directed Part 2 ( and who has a cameo as Professor Mixter ) tries to make it suspenseful but it's all for naught since Myers is no longer scary and it is no longer interesting to watch him kill . The characters are intolerable ( especially Jen ) and I just plain didn't care if they died . The film may be more notable for being one of the most politically correct slasher movies to date , although I couldn't help but be somewhat annoyed to see Myers get roughed up by Freddie . I mean , the character used to be a lot more of a threat . ( By the way , they haven't had a good Michael Myers since the second film . And the masks are looking more and more cartoon-like . ) I'm sorry to say - - - I gave it .
Unless you're a fan of these guys , DON'T WATCH .	Real-life comics Johnny Brennan and Kamal ( Ahmed ) , basically playing themselves , are two worthless , lazy chums who seemingly spend all their time making crank phone calls . They get in trouble when they get mixed up with mobsters Lazzaro ( Alan Arkin ) , Tony ( Vincent " Big Py " Pastore ) , and their crew . This flat , lazy , stupid , and boring " comedy " is not worth watching at all unless you like your laughs as immature as possible ( and get off on hearing epithets and expletives ad nauseum ) . I did not find these guys funny at one time during the movie . This movie gets old VERY quickly . Not to mention the fact that the " funny " voices that they use are dopey and unoriginal . No , the only thing worth mentioning about " The Jerky Boys " is the assortment of special appearances : musical performances by Tom Jones and Helmet , and cameo appearances by Ozzy Osbourne ( as Helmet's manager ! ) and Paul Bartel . There are some familiar old character actors in the supporting roles , but they are so poorly used it's sad . What possessed Arkin to appear in this ? Executive produced by Tony Danza and Emilio Estevez !
Tiresome and predictable .	Oh-so-familiar comedy story about low-key nice-guy Paul ( Jason Lee ) , who after the night of his bachelor party , wakes up in bed with Becky ( Julia Stiles ) , an attractive blonde he met just the night before . After lying about it to his fiancée Karen ( Selma Blair ) , he's forced to tell more and more lies to cover his tracks . I'm sure most of us have been witness to a story like this at least once before . . . on film or on TV . The movie is formulaic and EXTREMELY predictable , with an ending you may see coming a mile away . At least the cast provides some interest and keeps it watchable . Lee is just right in the lead , and Stiles is a lot of fun in a light-hearted comedic role different from the very serious roles she usually plays . Becky is a free spirit who seems to change jobs as often as other people change their clothes . But you know , this isn't exactly well-written . At least one question is left unanswered : for WHAT , exactly , is Ray ( Lochlyn Munro ) , Becky's brutal ex-boyfriend , being investigated by the I . A . ? And I didn't like the character of Buck ( David Koechner ) , Paul's stepfather ; he's a super-obnoxious moron who got on my nerves so quickly I was begging for somebody to punch him . Add another debit : a gratuitous , uncredited cameo by comic / actor Larry Miller , once again playing a grouch ( in this case , it's a little justified - his character is an ultra-conservative minister ) . Not good at all , but as usual for me , I give it a based on the efforts of the cast alone .
King Kong lives . . . and the audience dies of boredom .	Incredibly , foolishly silly sequel to the 1976 version of " King Kong " in which the colossal gorilla is being kept barely alive after plummeting from the World Trade Center in the previous movie . It's determined that Kong needs a transfusion , and wouldn't you know it , wise-guy adventurer / opportunist Hank Mitchell ( Brian Kerwin ) has accidentally discovered another Kong of the female persuasion . The two Kongs ultimately get together , escape , and head for the wilderness and mate . Hank hooks up with dedicated doctor Amy Franklin ( Linda Hamilton , wearing a " WHY did I sign up for this ? " expression on her face throughout ) and they try to save the two Kongs from extermination by gonzo , trigger-happy military villain Col . Nevitt ( John Ashton , better known as " Sgt . Taggart " from the first and second " Beverly Hills Cop " films ) . The film-makers seem to have taken themselves seriously , and more's the pity . The movie is just too darn absurd to work , with its dumb characters , unintentional humor ( at least I THINK it's unintentional ) , and sometimes laughable special effects . If you are so inclined , feel free to watch this movie and catch bad cinema at its " finest " . I'm surprised that movie was nominated for only one Razzie !
" I only axed you for a smoke ! "	Jack Frost ( Scott MacDonald ) is a prolific serial killer being transported to the electric chair on a snowy night when he comes into contact with a specially designed acid and has his DNA fused into a fall of snow . . . so he dies but comes back as an ugly killer snowman . Confusing this movie with the 1998 Michael Keaton family film of the same name may actually be more amusing than anything in this movie ( although they do admittedly share the same premise : men who die and come back to " life " as snowmen ) . I understand that this silly horror spoof is limited by a low budget , and I can understand that I'm not supposed to take it seriously - the whole movie is very tongue-in-cheek - but for me it still didn't work . I thought that it was rather lame and uninteresting and I didn't think that it was lively enough for me to forgive its other flaws . I think that this was Shannon Elizabeth's movie debut and I think that she should be thankful that better roles and scripts came along for her .
The cameos are amusing , but there's not much to recommend here .	Supposed " nice " guy Bo Laramie ( Cole Hauser , in his first star turn ) is the hot new action star of the moment ; as his first big film vehicle is opening , he is hounded by repellent , monstrous celebrity photographers led by Tom Sizemore ( in an admittedly great " bad guy " performance ) who endanger the lives of his family . So what does Bo do ? He goes after them with a vengeance . I didn't think that it was such a " fun " movie . I hated the alleged " hero " as much as the villains . I truly didn't think there was anybody to root for . It was unpleasant , as revenge thrillers often tend to be , and the way that these self-righteous filmmakers hammered us over the head with their all-too-obvious agenda mitigated against whatever enjoyment there might have been . This film has some good actors in it , but there are no really good roles . Everything is in black and white here , with no middle ground . And the detective played by Dennis Farina ( himself a real-life cop once , as if I need to tell anybody ) comes off as a dubious character himself in the end result . This film was heavy-handed , annoying , and stupid . I know I will inevitably get many negative responses to this review , but this is just how I felt . I disliked this film , and probably would have hated it outright were it not for my automated response to visceral type thrills .
Not worth a second viewing !	Billy Duncan ( Kim Milford ) finds an alien ray gun in the desert and becomes addicted to using it - and the more he uses it , the more he mutates into a minor version of the Hulk , and he lays waste to virtually an entire town . Silly silly SILLY ! This goofy " cult classic " has no point to it at all ; it has lots of fiery explosions and amusing animated aliens , but it spends ( wastes ? ) most of its time alternating between being dull , stupid , and annoying . Virtually any sequence NOT featuring the aliens creates tedium . Billy is an uninteresting cipher , and his supposed " enemies " are not really villainous - they're more guilty of being dumb and irritating than anything else . Add an anticlimactic ending , and inept acting and direction , and what do you get ? Not much . This movie is cheesy but it's not ENJOYABLY cheesy .
Another B movie that's safe to pass over . . .	Routine , predictable , you-know-what's-gonna-happen " nature strikes back " schlock with C . Thomas Howell ( ya gotta feel bad for him , being reduced to participating in this kind of thing ) playing a rural sheriff being forced to contend with an enormous swarm of deadly killer bees . Well , I guess we get what we expect with this underwhelming tale . Bad special effects , stock supporting characters and unimpressive performances , too many moments that only produce laughter . It would have been better if all involved could have some fun poking fun at their cruddy material , and played it with more irony and humor . But no , they had to take themselves seriously . I sort of liked the main characters ( particularly Fiona Loewis ' ) , to be totally honest . If for any reason I found it a little better than completely worthless , that would be it . But that doesn't change the fact that the film itself is so unimaginatively hacked out - " hack " being the operative word there . It's simple , cheap ( and , yet again , filmed in Canada , to save even more money ) and silly . Then again , one could always derive some entertainment out of it for the unintentional humor . It's amazing to see all of these people perform this material with such straight faces .
Not really worth your time .	Hordes of genetically enhanced killer bats lay siege to a rural Texas area . Bat lover / scientist Sheila Casper ( Dina Meyer of " Starship Troopers " ) and local sheriff Emmett Kimsey ( Lou Diamond Phillips ) , with the help of her assistant Jimmy ( Leon ) work to save the day . That's all that this movie has in the way of plot . A glorified B-movie that at times wallows in lousy dialog and characters ( and performances ) ; it starts stinking like a great steaming pile of guano . Whenever the bats attack it gets a bit more entertaining but this is routine , formula horror stuff that does little more than take up space on the video store shelf . Even the creature effects are below par for the K . N . B . EFX Group ; the bats look somewhat ridiculous at times . In the featurette on the DVD , the actors seem to be trying to convince themselves that they were appearing in something of merit . Well , let me tell you , if this movie had gone more over the top , or gotten more campy , or tongue-in-cheek , or something like that , it might have been more fun ( for me , anyway - at least the stupid lines would have been more tolerable ) , but the film-makers take it seriously as a visceral , make-you-squirm-in-your-seat kind of movie . Once it's over , you'll forget all about it .
I've Forgotten It Already .	Yet another gratuitous horror sequel ; this one is set at a film school with various students engaging in cutthroat competition for the Hitchcock award . Is the mad slasher chopping up various victims out to win this award ? Could be . . . This movie does not deserve to be mentioned in the same breath as the name Hitchcock . None of the films-within-the-film , or this film itself , would be leading candidates for ANY sort of award , in my opinion . This is routine film-making with obligatory gore and flawed writing , a gorgeous but underwhelming young cast , and so sense of style or flair . If I were the veterans in this cast ( Hart Bochner , Loretta Devine ) in this film , I would be embarrassed . This is a sequel in name only , with only the smallest possible references to the first film , and not much actual exploitation of the " urban legends " concept . It's watchable , but REALLY forgettable . By the way , doesn't co-star Eva Mendes look like Gina Gershon in this film ? I think so . And , seriously , how lame is a fencer's mask as a disguise ? I guess all the cool disguises in horror films have been exhausted by this point . A note to Hollywood : please , I don't think the world needs another " Urban Legend " movie . Film-making debut for John Ottman , who's worked as a producer , composer AND editor . I would advise him to stick to those other jobs .
Not as much fun as I would have liked .	A lame , witless , utterly flat horror movie parody in which a silly family move into an inherited house that has been cursed for ages ; the son picks up an old book , " The Book of Evil " , and , not knowing any better , opens it and thereby unleashes an assortment of monsters on the house ; two ' Addams Family ' / ' Munsters ' types ( Jeffrey Tambor and Nancy Lee Andrews ) arrive on the scene , followed by wacky Van Helsing ( Severn Darden ) . Personal taste may dictate how this works for you ; I can only tell you that I found it boring and unfunny . I had a few scattered chuckles throughout , but that was it . Obviously a low , low-budget product ( from Roger Corman's New World Pictures ) , that helps to amp up the cheese factor . The acting is also probably intended to be bad as well , but that didn't work for me , either . The cast includes real-life couple Richard Benjamin and Paula Prentiss , Kevin Brando - noteworthy as the voice of Schroeder in several Peanuts related projects , Tambor in what was actually only his second feature film , sexy cult actress Roberta Collins in a rather small role , and film veteran Rosemary De Camp as a miserly and venal aunt . I couldn't really hate it - it's harmless ( remember the PG rating , kind of unusual for Corman's canon of films ) and mildly likable , but I still would have liked to have laughed a lot more . Again , I guess it will just come down to one's own sensibilities as to how much or little they enjoy it .
Three Out Of Ten .	Robert De Niro plays a well-worn cliche : a loose-cannon , reckless cop who ( surprise ! ) gets punished by his superior ( for shooting at a TV camera ) and ordered to appear on a new reality-based TV cop series . The main thorn in his side is the beat cop ( and wannabe actor ) , played by Eddie Murphy , who is selected as his partner for the series . This movie is more or less a failure . The main problem here is that the movie is supposed to be a satire of buddy-cop movies and reality-based TV cop shows , but the filmmakers end up taking the whole thing seriously . Then it turns into a boringly routine , predictable cop movie , with the usual overlong shootouts and overdone chase scenes . Another thing : the villain , played by Pedro Damian , is boring , unimaginative and devoid of any personality . I do love the cast , however . My rating for the film is based on their efforts alone . Murphy , especially , has some inspired moments . By the way , most of you probably already know this , but co-star Drena De Niro , who plays Annie , is Robert D . ' s real-life daughter . My rating is .
The best thing that I can say about it is that it's a nice house .	Based on a book by Jay Anson , itself inspired by a supposedly true story - and I for one would like to stress the word supposedly . Thirty-something couple with three children ( hers from a previous union ) move into a Long Island riverside house where horrific shotgun murders took place . It doesn't take long for bizarre and " scary " things to happen ; the new owners become convinced their house is haunted . I think I've mellowed a bit toward this film over time but I still think that it's basically a bad movie , torpedoed by slow pacing and lame " scares . " Ultimately , it's downright boring most of the time and is hampered by James Brolin's stupid character , who behaves like such a jerk at times that I would wish that the unfriendly spirits would get him . Not that I've seen very many haunted house movies , mind you . But if you want to watch one that has any degree of quality , rent or buy the 1963 version of " The Haunting . " ( Forget the 1999 remake of that movie ; when I watched it I thought it was worthless . ) The late Rod Steiger offers an over-the-top performance that does in fact get annoying . If it weren't for Margot Kidder , I would find this hard to sit through at about two hours long . This was followed by a prequel and far too many " sequels " .
I think this one goes in bargain bins for a reason .	One of veteran comedy actor Tim Conway's vehicles of the late seventies and early eighties , which pairs him with corpulent character actor Chuck McCann . They play two hopeless bozos - cops , no less - who perform an undercover operation for the governor by posing as new prisoners at a Southern institution so that they may extract the whereabouts of a large amount of cash from senile veteran prisoner Butch ( Hank Worden ) . I know Conway has got a lot of credentials , but I think he blew it with this one , which he wrote himself . This so-called comedy is quite flat , eliciting no laughs at all from me for most of its running time . Even the scene that should be uproarious - the scene where the squeamish Dewey ( Conway ) tries to inject Warden Warden ( Dub Taylor ) with Novocaine - I viewed with indifference . There is lots of slapstick & farce , and there are broad cartoon-like performances , but much of it just didn't pique my interest . What I wanted to see it for was the cast , which , incredibly , includes pre-'Dukes of Hazzard ' performances by Ben Jones ( a . k . a . " Cooter " ) and Sonny Shroyer ( a . k . a . " Enos " ) . Filmed on location in Georgia , and also includes an early film role for " Amazing Grace " Zabriskie ( ' Twin Peaks ' , ' Seinfeld ' , " The Big Easy " , " The Grudge " ) . Conway fans will probably be more forgiving and patient with this film than I was . The final eighteen minutes actually get reasonably funny and riotous and for that reason I saved this from a one or two .
It was a hard film for me to easily enjoy . . .	Parody of and tribute to Rock Hudson / Doris Day romantic / sex comedies from the 1960's ; this movie tells the story of a celebrated feminist author ( Renee Zellweger ) and the womanizing , superstar columnist ( Ewan McGregor ) who is determined to prove that she is a phony . Well , it's a triumph of 1960's-style production and costume design , if nothing else . One may have to be familiar with the kind of movies that this movie is sending up in order to appreciate it . It didn't really charm me , however - I found it to be pretty annoying and silly throughout and none of the upbeat , likable performances of the primary performers could make enough of a difference . It had me thinking " Oh my God " and rolling my eyes more than once - and that is never a good thing . It's very light and " airy " and is pretty forgettable once it is over . Zellweger has a lengthy monologue about 75 minutes into the movie that pretty much sums up the whole picture ! I guess it could be charitably described as a " personal taste " kind of movie - you will either be charmed by it or as annoyed as I was . At least it had small roles for ' Saturday Night Live ' players Rachel Dratch and Chris Parnell .
Pretty Bad , Folks .	Rebecca Carlson ( Madonna ) is picked up by the cops and prosecuted for murdering her wealthy lover in order to get a portion of his money . The gimmick in this case is that she used her own body to kill him - their sex was so kinky that it put too great a strain on his already weak heart . Frank Dulaney ( Willem Dafoe ) is the stupid patsy of a lawyer who takes her case . Dull , sleazy , and stupid in equal measure , this film adds up to very little . Most of the cast is fine ; however , Madonna continues to supply evidence that if she wants to continue acting she should stick to supporting roles ( i . e . A League Of Their Own ) . She is just plain poor in this one . Not worth more than a rental on a slow night . Those hoping to be aroused may not even find it worth the effort ; it's not that sexy . .
" You're disgusting , Dan . I like that in a person . "	This movie is based on a Stephen King novel in which mysterious new shopkeeper Leland Gaunt ( Max Von Sydow ) offers each citizen of Castle Rock the item he or she most desires - but there is a heavy price to be paid for these transactions . Local sheriff Alan Pangborn ( Ed Harris ) is soon forced to deal with a variety of brutal deaths and suspicious circumstances . Below average for Stephen King cinema : I can see why some people would think it was boring . It plods along without offering genuine scares and forces the viewer to spend time ( yet again ) with a bunch of repulsive losers whose hatred of each other is spooky . I do enjoy the novel and don't believe that this lackluster movie does it justice . There are too many unfortunate changes from book to screen . Von Sydow makes Gaunt much too charming . We're supposed to be SCARED of Gaunt at the right times , not amused by him . I also hate it that the sheriff's primary deputy ( Ray McKinnon ) is written and portrayed as such an annoying , Barney Fife-type moron . Star Ed Harris looks as if he was forced into doing this picture by his agent , but professional that he is , he really sinks his teeth into his dialog . Bonnie Bedelia ( as Pangborn's love interest Polly ) and Amanda Plummer ( in one of her standard mentally unbalanced roles ) come the closest to creating characters who are likable . Yet it is also foul and mean-spirited . Although I'll be darned if it didn't feel a little cathartic watching a bunch of unlikable movie characters tear each other to pieces . The climax has some good explosions . I often give movies a better rating than they probably deserve , but in this case I feel I should really be honest and just say : .
This film has some highlights , but overall I think it's a misfire .	Chevy Chase plays Max Fiedler , an air traffic controller with an unenviable existence who develops telekinetic powers after being doused with nuclear waste . He sets about using his powers for purely selfish gain , namely winning back his ex-girlfriend Patti D'Arbanville . It might be of interest an an early 1980's Chevy Chase relic , but I laughed far too infrequently to suit me . I thought it was a flat , uninspired , and insipid yawner with some amusing and / or interesting moments - the ballet sequence , the bedroom sequence with D'Arbanville , Chase snorting up a long line of " demon powder " as if it were cocaine , but basically I found that I didn't like this movie . The film's failure is not due to any lack of effort from the cast . They do whatever they can with the less-than-stellar script ( Dabney Coleman is once again playing the same kind of pompous jerk character that he is known for ) . D'Arbanville and Mary Kay Place ( as Max's outgoing ex-wife ) have some appeal , and I did find it interesting that their characters would be so friendly instead of at odds with each other . Chase fans might be more forgiving , but I know I won't be watching this again any time soon .
" Best Be Punchin ' Out Your Timecard . . . "	Based on a short story by Stephen King . Routine , unmemorable horror entry in which the workers at a cotton mill in rural Maine are selected to clean out the mill's lower levels . The main problem is that the mill has an enormous rat problem . . . and an even uglier menace living deep underneath the earth . For starters , the short story of King's that this is based on is NOT one of King's better efforts . It's a brief , gory , pointless tale that I think was only written for shock effect . The movie looks tremendously ugly ; it's the filthiest , most unkempt movie I've seen since " C . H . U . D . " . It also turns out to be gory , mean-spirited , and laughable . The cast is game but they can't save this picture . As always , Brad Dourif , cast as a mangy , creepy exterminator , is entertaining to watch , and his scenes are the best in the movie . Veteran actor Stephen Macht ( father of current young actor Gabriel Macht ) does a decent job as the movie's slimy villain ( he also speaks in a hilarious attempt at a Maine drawl ) . Don't you wish that you could tell movie executives in Hollywood that just because Stephen King's name is bankable that doesn't mean that all of his stories will translate into good feature films ? These film-makers may have wanted to make a horror movie but I guess they didn't care about making it quality horror . For fans of " Wishmaster " parts one and two , and their star , Andrew Divoff , that actor turns up here in one of his earliest roles .
Another film from the Charles Bronson-J . Lee Thompson-Cannon Group assembly line .	Charles Bronson plays Denver newspaper reporter Garret Smith , who covers the story of the mind-boggling , evil murder of a whole Mormon family in the Colorado mountains . As the events unfold , Garret learns that the story involves two feuding brothers ( Jeff Corey , John Ireland ) AND a powerful water company . Watchable throughout , but it ultimately ends up below average because it's so mechanically handled ; it's a run-of-the-mill thriller that does not stimulate any emotional involvement , despite the horrific nature of the opening scene . Bronson is a little better than usual , and backed by a few good supporting actors ( Corey , Ireland , Trish Van Devere , Laurence Luckinbill , Daniel Benzali ) . There is one scene that the film kind of has going for it : we've all seen scenes in thrillers where vehicles try to force each other off the road ; this time , TWO big rigs sandwich the van Bronson and Van Devere are driving in between them . The film never goes into a deep exploration of the Mormon culture , just sort of superficially examining it at best . Interestingly , despite all the deaths by gunshot , not as much blood is shown as camera as I would expect . The film gets a better music score than it deserves . Gene Davis , who played the psycho-killer in the Bronson vehicle " 10 To Midnight " plays the ill-fated ' Junior Assassin ' here . Oh , a couple more things : 1 . The fight scenes are incompetently and boringly done . 2 . It's stupid what a wimp the ' Senior Assassin ' turns out to be . 3 . And finally , the films leads up to an unfortunately anticlimactic conclusion . Too bad .
All my life I've lived in Winnipeg ; never been inside this theater . . .	A stereotypically disparate group of high school students - all fitting into standardized roles ( the nerd , the jock , the bh , the best friend , etc . ) take their drama class to an old run-down theater ( the mother of one of the girls was an opera star who was murdered in one of that same theater's dressing rooms ) ; lurking in the darkness is a psycho dressed like Pagliacci's clown who disposes of them in short order . I would have liked to have more affection for this ultra-routine bore of a slasher movie , being that it was shot in my hometown - particularly the historic Walker Theater ( now known as the Burton Cummings Center for the Performing Arts ) . This theater makes for a fairly good setting but the script - and some of the performances - are annoyingly dumb . Young star Sarah Lassez - as the tormented heroine - does try hard . Some of you may rightly wonder what Christopher Plummer - in a special guest appearance - is doing in this movie . Talk about slumming . The presence of Margot Kidder - who speaks here with a noticeable lisp - is more understandable and I'm sure she was grateful for the work . All in all , it's too bad that it doesn't add up to much .
I was not too impressed with " Ghost Ship " .	Modern-day salvage / tugboat crew finds European ocean liner that has been adrift for four decades and when they get on board they are bombarded with a myriad of visions tied to the tragedy that befell the boat in 1962 . Below-average " horror " film is uninteresting and boringly handled . These film-makers seem to have thought that because they threw in tons of gore and made this a very slick production that they had done their job as makers of a Halloween horror film . Where are the scares ? I sure don't know . Some of the performers ( Gabriel Byrne , Isaiah Washington ) give the film better performances than it deserves . Then again , Byrne is almost always well worth watching . Then real-life couple Julianna Margulies and Ron Eldard are on hand as well , but they seem to act as if their chance to work together was the only thing that drew them to the project . The film-makers strain to give the film plenty of atmosphere , but they can't even do that . The sets are okay , but nothing I haven't seen before . The film makes no impact at all . SPOILER : And oh my God , they just had to throw in the obligatory stupid " it's not over yet " final scene . That made me mad .
What a mess !	Drew Barrymore plays young Holly Gooding , who moves in with aspiring hack screenwriter Patrick Highsmith ( George Newbern ) and completely disrupts his life by claiming that her " doppelganger " , or evil twin , is out to kill her and her family . This silly horror film is kind of hard to take seriously , even if the film-makers and actors themselves seem to be dead serious . " Doppelganger " is muddled , with some unpleasantly dumb dialog . Some viewers will note that Drew's character's name is drawn from Audrey Hepburn's role in " Breakfast at Tiffany's " , and that Newbern's character's name is a play on the name of famed author Patricia Highsmith ( he is actually trying to re-write " Breakfast " as a horror film , believe it or not ! ) . I suppose that it deserves some credit for not being quite your typical horror film - I mean , writer / director Avi Nesher seems to genuinely care for his characters , and gives his film more plot than standard slasher fare . After a silly villain - explains - everything - to - the - audience confrontation , the film goes on to submit a hideous , out-there climax that has to be seen to be believed . This film certainly does not skimp on the gore . But hey ! Drew kills her mother in this one . No , I'm not joking . Jaid Barrymore shows up near the beginning only to get violently slaughtered . Drew is always very watchable , and very sexy in this one . Newbern comes off as a likable-enough , " nice " sort of guy . But the highpoint of the film has to be the scene with Sally Kellerman , an attractive veteran who's very professional in her one scene as a former nun who's started a phone sex business ( ! ! ! ! ! ! ) . The film is basically junk but fairly amusing on a sleazy , sordid little level .
I can't say I like it but I don't exactly despise it either .	Regarded by many critics as one of the biggest stinkers of all time ( certainly the biggest stinker of director Brian De Palma's career ) . Sherman McCoy ( Tom Hanks ) is a smug rich boy whose life goes to pieces when he and his lover Maria Ruskin ( Melanie Griffith ) are involved in a hit-and-run . His story is chronicled by another smug guy , reporter Peter Fallow ( Bruce Willis ) . Well , as I said in my summary . . . What is this movie supposed to be ? It seems to combine comedy , drama , and satire , but it sure doesn't add up to much . It's undermined by unimaginably loathsome , one-dimensional characters who you'd never want to have the displeasure of meeting in real life . I'm no big fan of the novel ( I started reading it once , but couldn't finish it because it wasn't to my liking ) but it's obvious to me that those who did / do enjoy the novel consider this film to be a complete travesty . I've never seen so many talented actors strive to hard to give a below-average movie some semblance of quality and fail . What a waste . The problems start with casting nice guy Tom Hanks in a role that is clearly supposed to be UNsympathetic . And the role of Peter Fallow in the novel was that of a Brit . Bruce Willis is badly , BADLY miscast in the role . What was the thinking there . Alas , not even Morgan Freeman can escape the film with his dignity intact , being obliged to deliver a lame , heavy-handed lecture on ' decency ' after the climax . This movie ends up turning into an absurd farce . I liked the assemblage of talent ; for that I will give it , but I'm sure some people will say a MUCH better movie could have been made from the source material .
Your time could be better spent than watching this .	Legendary B producer and director Roger Corman has always been one to capitalize on mainstream successes . For " Jaws " , he had " Piranha " , and for " Jurassic Park " , he had " Carnosaur " . In 1989 , when underwater monster movies were a recurring idea ( there was also " The Abyss " , " Leviathan " , and " DeepStar Six " ) , his studio Concorde came up with this blatant clone of " The Abyss " . It has an undersea base coming into contact with too-cute manta ray shaped creatures with slowly blinking red eyes . Sexy researcher Clare ( ' Three's Company ' hottie Priscilla Barnes , looking too uncomfortable ) develops a connection to the creatures , while everything starts going bad due to the increasing instability of base commander Dobler ( Bradford Dillman ) . This dull , routine , unimaginative genre entry is just barely watchable . Mary Ann Fisher here has her only directorial credit to date , coming as no surprise . This could have benefited from more humor or flair but it's given a flat and too serious presentation . With the possible exception of Dillman , who's amusingly squirrelly , the cast generates no interest ( with Corman making an uncredited appearance as a corporate bigwig on a monitor ) . This is definitely one you can skip . You'd be better off just re-visiting " The Abyss " .
This time , Satan claims his victims by boring them to death . . .	Maya Larkin ( Winona Ryder ) , a survivor of a childhood exorcism , become convinced , along with her associates Deacon Townsend ( Elias Koteas ) and Father Lareaux ( John Hurt , who is too good for the likes of this stuff ) , that non-religious true crime author Peter Kelson ( Ben Chaplin , doing a good American accent ) will become the embodiment of Satan's evil on the exact moment of his 33rd birthday . Inconsistent religious horror thriller is on the one hand a competently made movie with a competent cast ( including Alfre Woodard , uncredited as " Dr . Allen " ) . On the other hand , it's not exciting or emotionally involving at all , and there's no sense of urgency or genuine impending doom . It may be likely to provoke a " So what ? " reaction from the viewer . Worst of all , all of this leads to a flat , unemotional , and anticlimactic ending - hardly what I would call a great payoff . This is , generally speaking , an unmemorable movie that can't favorably compare to real classics of the genre , like " Rosemary's Baby " and " The Omen " . " Bless the Child " , released the same year as this , is not a particularly good film , but at least it offers more entertainment than " Lost Souls " . Some of the actors are sadly under-utilized .
LeBrun's Law says don't watch . . .	Run-of-the-mill , less than energetic cop vs . psycho movie in which Jack Murphy ( Charles Bronson ) is a grumpy , alcoholic police detective who is framed for the murder of a few people , including his stripper ex-wife . The culprit is Joan Freeman ( Carrie Snodgress ) , a disturbed creep who is motivated by that old standby : revenge . Along the way , Murphy acquires a spunky , unwilling companion in small-time criminal Arabella McGee ( Kathleen Wilhoite ) , who he drags along when he pulls off a prison break . Nothing to set this apart from the dozens and dozens of other cop movies sitting on video store shelves - except Arabella's deliriously ( and yet enjoyably ) profane mouth . Bronson , as usual , doesn't do any more acting than he has to , leaving it up to the supporting cast to pick up the slack ( not that they all do a great job ) . Snodgress , at least , isn't bad as the villainess . It is sometimes funny in an unintentional way because it is pretty stupid . . . but I'll take my laughs any way that I can get them . Unfortunately , the lack of genuinely likable characters is a debit . Basically , it's just another addition to the 1980's Charles Bronson repertoire . Co-star Wilhoite also sings the title song over the closing credits .
New To Our Fall Schedule : " No Survivors . "	TV veteran John Ritter plays Roy Knable , a pathetic couch potato who is easily duped into buying an extravagant new system by the mysterious Mr . Spike ( Jeffrey Jones ) . The catch is that Roy and wife Helen ( Pam Dawber ) are sucked into this system and made to participate in the shows . They have 24 hours to get back to the " real " world . VERY mild , rather disappointing comedy is a one-joke comedy , and that one joke is dragged out too long . There are some chuckles to be had , sure , but overall the movie is below average . It might have worked better as a series of skits on " Saturday Night Live " or something like that . The one segment that admittedly stands out is the animated segment where Roy and Helen are turned into cartoon mice . Cast is OK but they've better utilized , and given better performances , in other films . Jones is the one actor who seems to be having the most fun . It is recommended for those who would like to see Ritter in a hip-hop wardrobe and dancing to Salt-n-Pepa's " Start Me Up . " At the very least , it is likable and harmless . Though I still give it .
" When you're cool , the sun shines on you 24 hours a day . "	Mike Harlan ( John Stockwell , in his first top-billed role ) is a laid-back car junkie who doesn't seem to care about anything else BUT cars . He is handed down an ultimatum by his science teacher , Bob Roberts ( Dennis Hopper ) : hand in a science project or get flunked . Mike takes what he thinks will be the easy way out : he scours the junk-pile in a forlorn Military enclosure , and makes off with what has already been revealed to be an alien gadget . It can create warps in time and space , not to mention put on a heck of a light show . When the device is accidentally turned on , Stockwell and associates have to work together to save the world . The directorial debut for " The Last Starfighter " screenwriter Jonathan Betuel is for me a missed opportunity . It's not as much fun as I think it should have been . It takes too long for the movie to build up any amount of steam , and even the climax does not seem to have an overwhelming amount of energy . The special effects may be a highlight ( the dinosaur actually doesn't look too bad ) but they pretty much dominate a fairly unsatisfying movie with too much dumb dialog . Vince Latello's one-liners fall flat far too often ( although that line that I used to title this review was one of the better ones ) . The actors do everything that they can . The adult co-stars are mostly in the background , with the exception of Richard Masur's extended cameo as a broadly played detective with a long , slow drawl , and , of course , the incomparable Dennis Hopper , perfectly cast as the 1960's relic turned high school teacher . Stockwell is acceptable as the low-key hero , Danielle Von Zerneck reasonably appealing as the geeky girl who of course happens to be already rather attractive , Raphael Sbarge stuck in the one-note , over-the-top , grating nerd role ( he reminded me too much of Urkel and Screech ) , and Fisher Stevens displaying his usual comedic energy as the flamboyant and cocky Latello . As others here have noted , this was one of a number of 1980's pictures to jump on the science fiction-comedy bandwagon . I'm sure others will disagree with me , but I just don't think that this is one of the better ones . Of course , now when I see 1980's pictures and see those fashions and hear that music , I'm always amused because I think , " I actually lived through that . " " My Science Project " is not a total disappointment but it leaves me thinking that I would have preferred to watch something else . Cult actor Michael Berryman and Robert DoQui , " Sgt . Reed " in the " RoboCop " movies , have small roles , as does Pamela Springsteen ( " Sleepaway Camp " 2 and 3 ) .
Might have been " too intense " for TV , but not for this viewer .	Disappointing horror anthology which was originally supposed to be shown on television but got sent to theaters instead . The writing ( parts one to three were written by Christopher Crowe , part four by Jeffrey Bloom ) is largely uninspired . Director Joseph Sargent , a capable veteran of both film and TV ( a recent credit for him is the TV movie ' Something the Lord Made ' ) , fails to give this movie the kind of style or flash that it could have benefited from . Then again , he also made " Jaws : The Revenge " four years later . Oh well , I guess some directors are going to have their good films and their bad films . . . Part one is about a young wife ( Cristina Raines ) who simply HAS to go out for some cigarettes . The final twist is obviously derived from a popular urban legend . I felt pretty blasé watching this . Part two is about a nutty kid ( Emilio Estevez ) who's stubbornly determined to excel at a video arcade game . Tolerable , with amusing if not surprising ending , with effects that nearly bankrupted the whole production . Part three is about a sullen priest ( Lance Henriksen ) who has lost his faith . In a twist that rips off the movie " Duel " , he gets terrorized by a demon truck while driving through the desert . Hard to care about this story , although there is a show-stopping effects scene involving the truck . Henriksen isn't utilized very well . There is one hilarious stunt sequence where you can tell that the person jumping out of the way is NOT Henriksen . Part four , the mild best of this bunch , is about a suburban family , with an infuriatingly stubborn idiot of a husband / father ( Richard Masur ) that is terrorized by a giant rat in their home . There is some actual suspense , though the finale could have been better . You'll be able to tell what kind of effect was used . All in all , " Nightmares " suffers from being too routine . Only part four has any potential at all to be memorable .
Isn't That Central Concept Rather Corny ?	Jack Crews ( Patrick Swayze ) is forbidden to drive a truck after serving two years in prison for vehicular manslaughter . His boss ( Graham Beckel ) is conveniently willing to overlook this so he can have Jack drive a rig full of ill-gotten automatic weapons ; Jack doesn't want to get involved but when he's threatened with foreclosure on his home , he's forced to take the job in order to make a lot of money quickly . Below-average action movie is " stuck in low gear " , if I may so ; it's not very invigorating , even with all those highway action scenes . The film-makers seem to care far more about the crashes and chases than anything like plot or characters . ( That might not matter as much if the action scenes were more exciting . ) It also has boring villains and it all leads to a " So What ? " - type conclusion . Film also makes waste of supporting actors Charles S . Dutton and Stephen Tobolowsky , who respectively a very ill-tempered FBI agent and a dorky ATF agent with a number of stupid lines . Oh well , what can you do . . . except maybe watch Swayze in " Point Break " if you want to see him in a decent action movie . I gave it .
Not Good Enough .	Set 16 years after the events of " Escape From New York " , this sequel finds war hero turned outlaw " Snake " Plissken ( Kurt Russell ) in the same situation as the original : cops offer to expunge his record ( obviously he went right back to his criminal ways after his New York mission ) if he will undertake a dangerous mission with a very short deadline . The first daughter ( A . J . Langer ) , who has been brainwashed by a group of revolutionaries , has smuggled a doomsday contraption into Los Angeles , which has been turned into an island by a devastating earthquake , and which is now being used ( surprise , surprise ) as a prison for society's " undesirables " . Some interesting touches , an unusual cast , and good work in terms of design , photography , and music ( the opening theme is re-worked here with a more modern sound ) , can't make up for the fact that this sequel doesn't measure up . Surprisingly silly and light-hearted for a film of this type , with visual effects that look way too phony . I wanted to like this movie , but I just don't care for it that much . It's made with an unfortunate lack of energy and enthusiasm ( which seems to be more and more typical of Carpenter's films as time goes on ) . ( I think the conclusion is stupid , too . ) Ultimately , it's below average .
Sometimes dead is better .	Stephen King adaptation ( scripted by King himself ) in which a young family , newcomers to rural Maine , find out about the pet cemetery close to their home . The father ( Dale Midkiff ) then finds out about the Micmac burial ground beyond the pet cemetery that has powers of resurrection - only of course anything buried there comes back not quite RIGHT . Below average " horror " picture starts out clumsy , insulting , and inept , and continues that way for a while , with the absolute worst element being Midkiff's worthless performance . It gets a little better toward the end , with genuinely disturbing finale . In point of fact , the whole movie is really disturbing , which is why I can't completely dismiss it - at least it has SOMETHING to make it memorable . Decent supporting performances by Fred Gwynne , as the wise old aged neighbor , and Brad Greenquist , as the disfigured spirit Victor Pascow are not enough to really redeem film . King has his usual cameo as the minister . Followed by a sequel also directed by Mary Lambert ( is it any wonder that she's had no mainstream film work since ? ) .
" I'd like to kill the kid with the gum ! "	In the early 80's slasher movies had already become so popular that comedic film-makers were making fun of them . This one , about a heavy-breathing sicko running amok at a high school , was written and directed by Mickey Rose , whose credits include a few Woody Allen movies and a few TV series . It starts out pretty funny but the laughs become more and more infrequent - and the film gets more and more lame - as it goes on , leading to an unfortunately stupid finale . Amusing cast , led by a fresh-faced , appealing lead ( Kristen Riter ) is full of people who don't seem to have ever acted again - not that that's a surprise . It wouldn't be until 1996 and the Kevin Williamson-scripted , Wes Craven-directed " Scream " that the clichés of slasher movies would be successfully lampooned for the masses . Produced by Michael Ritchie , who after the film suffered production problems , used the infamous pseudonym " Allen Smithee " .
Here we go again . . .	Obviously set years after " Halloween 5 " , Michael Myers ( George P . Wilbur ) pursues his now-teenaged niece Jamie ( J . C . Brandy ) , who has escaped from something that looks like a dungeon with her new baby boy . Soon enough , he's started yet another killing spree . . . Honestly , the " Friday the 13th " sequels were less tiring than these " Halloween " sequels . It's hard to care about Myers or his rampages by this point . This is an extremely routine and forgettable slasher picture - gorier than the previous two sequels - that is only recommended to people who just CAN'T get enough of slasher cinema . It isn't as annoying as Part 5 , and it looks like these film-makers cared more about creating genuine suspense , but it's still very uninspired . For those who love gore , there is a mass slaughter a dozen minutes or so from the movie's end , although it isn't shown in any great detail . Paul Rudd's film debut ; he plays the young-adult version of the Tommy Doyle character from the first " Halloween " and delivers what is NOT one of his better performances . Also Donald Pleasence's final film appearance - looking more tired than ever . Such a shame that this was his swan song . Ineptly written movie with a frustratingly stupid ending .
Lowest Point in the Series .	Tommy Jarvis , the preteen hero of the previous entry , is now a mentally disturbed teenager who ends up transferred to a halfway house located deep in the woods . Shortly after he arrives , one patient savagely attacks another , and soon after that , a new killing spree officially begins . Formulaic and routine slasher material ; the film-makers deliver the sex and violence that the core audience demands yet also fail to deliver any real scares . Further hampered by truly annoying characters and truly annoying dialog . The script overall really falls short , even for an F13 movie . At the very least , there are a few likable characters ( including some would-be victims who fight back with a vengeance ) who are worth rooting for . And John Shepherd does a good job of convincing me that Tommy became very emotionally unstable after his encounter with Jason . Also , the only series entry to actually feature a performer with the last name Voorhees . I only own it in order to have a complete F13 collection .
Not as good as Joe Dante's other films .	" Explorers " tells the story of young science-fiction buff Ben ( Ethan Hawke ) who has a vision in his dream that he imparts to his whiz-kid friend Wolfgang ( River Phoenix ) . Wolfgang uses his own technical wizardry to bring this vision to life and together with a third friend Darren ( Jason Presson ) they design a craft that takes them into outer space where they have a close encounter . Lightweight , certainly likable science-fiction fantasy that is good for the young crowd - in fact , it is okay for family viewing - but for me it was too slowly paced . It wastes a little too much time . And now after seeing it again ( it's been YEARS since I last saw it ) I can understand why Leonard Maltin and his cronies would say it " takes a wrong turn in space " . That's because there is no substance or importance to the close encounter - the outer-space portion of the film rambles on pointlessly ( just like the aliens ) and in the end it was hard not to be as disappointed as the three young heroes . At least it has its heart in the right place . The special effects are practically overwhelming . Robert Picardo , a veteran of director Joe Dante's movies , displays his versatility by playing three roles : ' Starkiller ' , ' Wak ' and ' Wak & Neek's Father ' . Also features veteran cult actor Dick Miller in one of his many roles in Dante movies . Rob Bottin , the man behind the alien design ( and who created those memorable werewolf effects for Dante's " The Howling " ) , was probably given free reign in coming up with ideas and he came with some pretty funny , fanciful-looking aliens . It's not really BAD , but it's not that good either . Phoenix's and Hawke's film debuts .
" Die Hard " On The " Titanic " - Oh , Please !	I mean , seriously , what that how this silly sequel to the 1994 action hit " Speed " was pitched to Twentieth Century Fox ? Annie Porter ( Sandra Bullock ) and Alex Shaw ( Jason Patric ) go on a Caribbean cruise and have to contend with madman Geiger ( Willem Dafoe ) , who's disgruntled and bitter and has taken control of the ship . I made a couple of notes while watching this movie ( and you know a movie's not that great if you're writing WHILE the movie is playing ) . 1 . The writing is lame at times . 2 . It's not the thrill ride that the first movie was . There are some good scenes but there are also scenes that are stretched out too long . 3 . The opening sequence is silly . 4 . It's not as well paced as the first one . It takes a while for anything major to happen . 5 . Sandra Bullock's character Annie , returning from the original , really IS annoying at times . 6 . Ultimately , it's more tiring than invigorating . 7 . Was Jason Patric , as the heroic cop Alex , advised by his agent to do a mainstream movie ? Bad advice . 8 . I did like the performances by Temuera Morrison and Brian McCardie as two of the ship's crew . 9 . Dafoe's bad guy is kind of boring and his motivation is flimsy . 10 . The shipload of passengers isn't too sympathetic . 11 . The amount of physical damage done in the course of the movie is just staggering . 12 . Dumb finale . Overall , it's a below-average movie because its flaws outweigh its assets . I gave it .
A curiosity but no more than that .	In this silly sequel to one of the great modern werewolf films , Ben White ( Reb Brown ) is the brother of Karen White , Dee Wallace's ill-fated character from the original film . He hooks up with Jenny Templeton ( Annie McEnroe ) , an associate of Karen's , as well as " occult investigator " Stefan Crosscoe ( a slumming Christopher Lee ) and they head for Transylvania to confront a new fiendish species of werewolf led by kinky werewolf goddess Stirba ( Sybil Danning ) . I was dismayed at first by how utterly ridiculous the film was , but eventually came to believe that it's all probably meant to be tongue-in-cheek . ( Even so , the humor in this movie doesn't really work . ) Brown and McEnroe are bad actors , at least in this film , and that doesn't help . Lee's presence is the film's major asset , although the film's descent into rampant debauchery , and some admittedly well-executed gore ( quite graphic at times ! ) , prevents it from ever getting too boring . The filmmakers make full use of Danning's physical endowments , and you tell which scene of hers is the favorite , because it's played over and over again during the end credits . Another sorry bit of repetition is that theme song . It is fairly catchy , but how many times during the movie do we have to hear it ? I can still hear it inside my dn head as I type this ! Almost worthy on a so-bad-it's-good level , but I just didn't think that it was that much fun .
Disappointing .	Some young adults are having a party and one of them , played by soap veteran Stephen Nichols , announces that he uses a Ouija board on a regular basis , communicating with the spirit of a boy who died at 10 thirty years ago . After this , Nichols ' ex-girlfriend Tawny Kitaen , who's now involved with house builder Todd Allen , becomes obsessed with using the board and the spirit starts acting up and so of course we have to find out WHY . Sadly , a low-key affair that doesn't work as a horror film because it plods too much , offering instead a showcase for the good-looking cast , who aren't really up to the challenge . It's virtually devoid of chills or thrills for the entire running time , indulges in boring cliches ( the flaky psychic played by Kathleen Wilhoite , who is mildly likable and humorous but no more , and an array of cheap horror tactics ) , and provides us with very few details about the villain . Also , the character who one might think will be the comic relief throughout the film dies early on , and the obligatory Detective - Investigating - The - Case character becomes a bit of comic relief himself . I just don't think that " Witchboard " works altogether . A nice try , but no cigar . It's not really for the rabid horror fan - there's a bare minimum of effects , a body count you can count on the fingers of one hand , and a noticeable lack of nudity . Maybe it will be more worth it for those of you who prefer their horror films to be subtle . Ultimately , what does it in for me is a lack of excitement and emotional involvement . I really didn't care for the characters or their plight . I don't actively hate the film - it was bad but not terrible - but I won't watch it again any time soon . This climaxes in what is I think a joke of an ending .
Uninspired combination of creature feature and religious horror .	Below average horror movie in which a variety of snakes descend on a small town , inflicting fatal bites on various hapless citizens , just in time for the opening of a dog track . Irreverent Father Tom Farrow ( the always delightful Fritz Weaver ) comes to believe that the king cobra mobilizing all of these creatures is the incarnation of Satan himself . This is one of a number of little known ' 70's and ' 80's genre movies that I'd been determined to see for a long time . Unfortunately , I may have built it up in my mind too much for it was disappointing upon finally seeing it . It suffers from not having any really good set pieces . Too much of the time , it's silly rather than scary . The animal action is good , and the movie is not totally without tension , but it still fails to deliver in terms of any atmosphere or suspense . With the exception of Father Farrow , the characters are inane and the writing isn't particularly good . Other than Weavers ' performance , the only other hint of quality is the typically stylish cinematography by Dean Cundey , once again working with ace cameraman Ray Stella . The uninspired direction is by Bob Claver , who's worked almost exclusively in TV and doesn't really display an aptitude for this genre , resulting in a bland and forgettable movie . Even the ending isn't particularly exciting . It may actually have been intended to be tongue-in-cheek , and there are certainly some laughs to be had , but it's still not a very good movie . The title " Jaws of Satan " is appropriate , for there is an all-too-familiar " Jaws " like ring to it , as the local bigwig ( Bob Hannah ) and mayor ( Jack Gordan ) care more about the business that the dog track will pull in rather than public safety . Co-starring Gretchen Corbett ( ' The Rockford Files ' ) as well-meaning doctor Maggie Sheridan , Jon Korkes ( in a Matt Hooper-like role as a snake expert ) , Norman Lloyd , Diana Douglas , Nancy Priddy , and in her film debut , a very young Christina Applegate , playing the daughter of real-life mom Priddy .
Not a complete waste of time , but doesn't measure up to Pam's classics .	Below average blaxpoitation action / melodrama in which the lovely Ms . Grier plays a private eye who comes to the aid of her father ( Rudy Challenger ) and his partner ( Austin Stoker of the original " Assault on Precinct 13 " ) whose loan business is being threatened . I'll be frank - I agree with the few other user comments for this movie . " Sheba , Baby " has a less than satisfying script , direction that isn't particularly distinguished , action scenes that are moderately entertaining at best , and one of Ms . Grier's more nondescript supporting casts ( although there's an important supporting role for D'Urville Martin , also a familiar name in blaxpoitation ) . I get the feeling that this routine movie may have been put together quickly merely to cash in on her then enormous popularity . It sure was cool seeing Stoker again , although Ms . Grier doesn't have as good a role - or dialog - as she has had in other films , although she is doing what she does best , and that's playing a sassy , sexy sister on a mission of vengeance . Non-stop soul / funk soundtrack is enjoyable , at the very least . Mostly recommended to those who wish to see everything in the Pam Grier film repertoire .
You're better off re-watching the giant squid attack in " 20 , 000 Leagues Under the Sea " .	" Tentacles " is a very silly and cheesy monster movie about an enormous octopus that claims an assortment of dumb victims for approximately 100 minutes of screen time . Marine expert Bill Gleeson ( Bo Hopkins ) and his associate Mike ( Alan Boyd ) take it upon themselves to try to destroy the monster after it has wreaked havoc upon a sailing regatta . Yet another film in the long line of 1970's era " Jaws " wannabes , made by Italian film-maker Ovidio Assonitis . The oddest aspect of this amusing example of bad B-cinema is seeing a troupe of performers who many viewers might feel are WAY too good for the likes of this stuff . John Huston , Henry Fonda , Claude Akins , Cesare Danova , Shelley Winters , and Hopkins are the familiar faces . I found that some of the music , particularly the " jump " music cues , to be overwhelmingly dumb . The movie itself , while not entirely lacking in the suspense department , is also much too plodding . The sequence where the rampaging beast attacks the sailors is done in a fashion too strange to work , with a number of freeze frames and a score that distracts from rather than adding to the effectiveness of the scene . While this movie does admittedly qualify as " junk " , I find myself sort of enjoying it anyway ; it does have a certain dumb , guilty pleasure sort of charm to it . Some of the actors look a little too weary and embarrassed , but Hopkins is likable and enjoyable as the Matt Hooper-style ocean expert with a special bond with his killer whale friends . The widescreen Technovision photography is decent , and the underwater scenes appropriately murky and gloomy ( with that one odd , disconcerting shot where scores of dead fish are standing on end ) . Again , this is the kind of film where I would tell potential viewers to go in with no real expectations . It's just simple , silly , low-budget genre fare , good for a few chuckles and chills , but no more than that .
If you could only see what's going on in this film half the time , it might have worked out .	The setup and plot for this routine Canadian made horror artifact from the early 1980's are pure cliché : a troupe of not-too-bright kids go for a boating trip , and thanks to the monumental foolishness of the real prick of the bunch , they are stranded on an island lake where they get violently murdered one at a time by the deformed , mentally impaired " man " who is the island's only resident . Many people have said it before me - professional critics as well as the folks who submitted user comments here - so I don't really need to repeat it , but suffice it to say , the fatal problem is the movie's utter lack of lighting . All I can say is , if this production couldn't afford artificial lighting , and had to rely on only what was available , the film must have had quite the low budget indeed . The movie's back story is about a disturbed and lonely woman haunted by her brutal rape as a teenager ( this takes place in flashback in the film's opening scene ) and the subsequent birth of her bastard son , which she apparently raised in an unconventional way . There were once many dogs on the island , but once the old lady died , the son ended up devouring them all . I'm enough of a horror junkie to have derived some entertainment out of " Humongous " . It gets off on the wrong foot with its disgusting rape sequence - which is then compounded by some in-your-face gore when one of the girl's dogs comes to her rescue ( a little too late , I might add ) . But I think that eventually there's some atmosphere to be enjoyed - the location work is okay - and the music score , at least on occasion , helped to create in me a feeling of unease , if not real fright . Most of those actors are stuck in dumb roles , and aren't good enough to really overcome them . Horror aficionados will take note that the method employed by the lone survivor at one point is reminiscent of a scene from " Friday the 13th Part 2 " : she pretends to be the killer's mom in order to buy herself some time . By the way , the monstrous killer is played by the seven foot one inch former Canadian wrestler Garry Robbins , who more recently played " Saw Tooth " in " Wrong Turn " ( 2003 ) .
Let's see , where do I begin . . .	Below average action comedy ; Ice Cube ( who also co-wrote ) plays Bucum , a bounty hunter who hates his job and hopes to start a business as a private detective . He makes it his personal mission to deliver small-time criminal Reggie ( Mike Epps ) back to prison , and while this is going on , there are plot threads involving diamond theft and a winning lottery ticket . Silly , underwhelming movie ; it's the type of action comedy where the action works better ( not much ) than the comedy ; I just didn't find it too funny , and I didn't think the script was that great . Best thing in the film is Epps , who seems to be having fun playing his character . At the very least , for those guys who are watching , there is a lot of eye candy on hand ; three sexy ladies ( Eva Mendes , Carmen Chaplin , Valarie Rae Miller ) are added to the mix . Unfortunately , it can't measure up to better movies like " 48 Hrs . " and " Midnight Run " . I gave this one .
So-so crime thriller is not memorable at all .	Based on the novel " Money Men " by Gerald Petievich , this movie tells the story of Treasury agent Jimmy Mercer ( Wesley Snipes ) who is determined to find the criminals who murdered a fellow agent in a sting gone bad . The mastermind is " Red " Diamond ( Dennis Hopper ) , a pathetic , aging con artist , with a trigger-happy , simple-minded accomplice ( Viggo Mortensen ) . The one thing these two men have in common is their interest in stereotypically good-hearted , high-class call girl Vikki Dunbar ( a very sexy Lolita Davidovich ) . Overall , this crime thriller falls below average because it tries too hard to be a subtle character study as well as a crime thriller . It's too quiet , and there's no real sense of urgency . It's not a very lively film , either - even the final showdown is rather lackluster . The movie is filled with familiar character actors , and it does maintain some interest . Snipes is good but unfortunately his character is pretty one-note in his solemnity . Hopper is actually well cast not in one of his typical mad-dog roles but a character I almost felt sorry for because he was so pathetic . The movie is also populated with attractive women who unfortunately don't do much - the meatier roles here go to the guys . One good thing : it's a reasonably short movie .
Disappointing effort from a proved comedy talent .	Ever lovable Tim Conway plays Vernon Praiseworthy , a perpetual screw-up who can't seem to hold on to a job . Then he receives news that floors him : he's the last living relative ( a nephew ) of a former hobo turned billionaire , Mr . Trayne ( a delightful Will Geer ) . Trayne is ready to leave his fortune and business to Vernon but wants Vernon to pass a test : live as a hobo and embark on a cross-country journey . I was expecting more of a series of vignettes , or slices of Americana , as the Praiseworthy character rode the trains . Instead , what happens is that this movie gets bogged down in an unfunny major plot about a dog-napping . The movie ends up plodding and not putting its star to good enough comedic use . On the plus side , " Bo " , the faithful canine companion , is wonderful , and the movie makes for fairly likable if rather uninspired family viewing . Conway is able to mine some scenes for laughs , but the movie is overall on the flat side . Co-star Eric Weston also appeared with Conway in the same years ' " They Went That-A-Way and That-A-Way " ; the movie also features Frank Sivero , John Myhers , and the late , great character actor Sydney Lassick . " The Billion Dollar Hobo " has its moments , just not enough of them .
Yeah , sure , when piranha fly . . .	In a plot almost identical to the first " Piranha " film of 1978 , this sequel tells the story of a similar , misguided plot to create a new monster fish ( piranha mated with grunions ) , which can actually fly as well as swim . Their presence is discovered , and the maverick heroes ( diving instructor Tricia O'Neil , who seems like an Adrienne Barbeau clone , and cop Lance Henriksen , O'Neil's estranged husband ) work to destroy them . This was the first directing credit for James Cameron , although , technically , he was fired after a week by producer Ovidio Assonitis , who proceeded to film the balance of the picture himself . " Piranha Part Two : The Spawning " is an incredibly silly affair , a B-level science-fiction / horror movie with sometimes ineffective music , some broad and dopey comedy ( as well as broad performances ) , better gore than expected , and some pretty darn unconvincing killer fish . Henriksen seems a little embarrassed , and I can't say that I blame him . It's a good thing both he and Cameron were able to continue working . O'Neil has some appeal as the heroine . Actor Ricky Paull Goldin , billed for whatever reason as " Ricky G . Paull " , plays their son , and the late Captain Kidd Brewer , Jr . , who later turned up in Cameron's " The Abyss " , has a small role here . This was almost laughable enough to work as a so-bad-it's-good type film . . . ALMOST .
Disappointing .	Juliet Mills is happy housewife Jessica , married to a record company executive and mother to two ( very annoying ) children . However , her third pregnancy comes with a hitch : Satan has laid claim to this child , and instructed one of his worshipers , Dimitri ( Richard Johnson ) , also an old flame of Jessica's , that if he makes sure this child is born , he will get to continue living his wretched existence . This also causes Jessica to exhibit bizarre behavior before finally showing the signs of demonic possession . Laying aside the similarities to " The Exorcist " - levitation , regurgitation of thick green stuff , head twists , deep demonic voice - which caused Warner Bros . to take legal action , I thought this was mildly amusing in its own right . It features some incredibly crazy , head-scratching , W . T . F . moments , some worthy of big laughs . One memorably silly sequence takes place about an hour and a quarter along , but it goes on for too long and becomes annoying quickly . The problem for me is that the good moments come too infrequently . Sure , it's creepy at times , and Mills and especially Johnson are good . But it takes about three quarters of an hour before anything remotely interesting happens . The movie is just too protracted and could have used a little shot of adrenaline . Still , I liked the touch of Old Scratch himself actually being heard addressing Dimitri . The music score was quite intriguing , in any event , far from being the typical horror movie score . The movie begins tantalizingly enough , with a dose of female nudity , and other effective imagery , but settles into tedium soon after . It unfortunately wasn't the kind of " scary trash " ( a quip on the DVD cover , from Roger Ebert , no less ! ) that I was hoping for . Entertaining enough in places , but overall it failed to really grab me .
Falls below expectations .	" National Lampoon's Loaded Weapon 1 " is a " Naked Gun " / " Hot Shots ! " style spoof of buddy-cop / action movies with lots of verbal and visual jokes . Veteran detective Wes Luger ( Samuel L . Jackson ) , a stable family man , is partnered with off-the-wall , crazed colleague Jack Colt ( Emilio Estevez ) and they investigate the case of a plot to turn cocaine into Wilderness Girl cookies ( ! ) . Maybe the movie needed better writers , I don't know . I used to laugh a little more at this movie , but viewing it critically for the first time ( I'm starting to demand a little more from what I watch ) I think that there is too much material in this movie that produces little to no laughs . There ARE some good laughs , of course , but it's really a rather flat comedy . The movie's comic performances are pretty much tolerable across the board ( except for Emilio Estevez - he proves that his brother Charlie Sheen ( who has a cameo ) is better at this sort of thing than he is ) , although Jackson is so good I wish he would think about doing more comedies . Frank McRae also gets some knowing laughs as the Stereotypically Angry Captain ( " I'm the captain . I'M supposed to do all the yelling ! " ) . Features uncredited cameos by two big time celebrity actors . Maybe we should be glad there's been no sequel ( that I know of ) despite the many jokes in the movie about an obligatory sequel to come .
" Every town has an Elm Street . . . HA HA HA HA ! "	Sixth escapade for Freddy Krueger in which he has finally managed to kill off virtually every youth in Springwood ; now he wants to broaden his horizons and ( SPOILER ) needs a family member in order to do it . A failure as a horror movie because it simply ain't scary at all . Works better as a dark , macabre black comedy , to tell you the truth . Freddy Krueger has now been stripped of all of his ability to chill this viewer . ( Too many wisecracks , that's for sure . ) The actors aren't interesting ( save Robert Englund , as always , and an obviously slumming Yaphet Kotto ) and there are simply far too many visual effects . The finale is OK but doesn't provide as many sparks as I think one might hope . In adding a new twist to the familiar dream killer's story , it provides Englund the opportunity to do more non-makeup scenes than ever before . There are cameos worth noting : a joint cameo by then-couple Roseanne and Tom Arnold that is devoid of entertainment value , an appropriate appearance by veteran shock-rocker Alice Cooper , and a funny cameo by Johnny Depp that also sort of acknowledges the pop icon that he had become . Film debut of Breckin Meyer , who plays Spencer . One of the best things about it is the replaying of key scenes from earlier entries during the closing credits .
Uninspired man vs . beast tale .	Macho jack of all trades Axel McGregor ( Donald Pleasence ) whose past gigs have included test pilot , race car driver , and writer , hunts a lethal black leopard in the jungles of Thailand . When the beast gets the drop on him , he becomes despondent over his fear , so when it actually gets captured , he lets it go just so he can hunt it again and exact some sort of vengeance for being humbled so badly . This , just as his estranged daughters Leslie and Georgia ( Nancy Kwan and Jennifer Rhodes ) arrive for a visit , with Georgias ' daughter Peggy ( Lesly Fine ) and local tour bus operator Ross ( Ross Hagen ) in tow . This material had some potential , and it does have some atmosphere going for it . That said , I don't think it's particularly well made , well written , or well acted . ( Although Hagen is very amiable and it's a hoot to see Pleasence really go off his rocker here . ) The leopards ' stalking scenes aren't bad , but the actual attack scenes left something to be desired . This is never as scary or as suspenseful as I would have liked ; it's basically watchable , but barely so . Location shooting in Thailand helps , anyway . The photography is decent enough and the music sometimes effective . But this plodding movie ended up leaving me wanting more .
As unintentionally funny as they come .	Demented dork scientist Keith Ritchie ( Anthony Houston ) starts communicating with Venusian monster Zontar and facilitates Zontars ' arrival on Earth . Zontar , a hilariously unconvincing batlike creature , hides out in a cave and sends out " funny little birds " to implant control devices on hapless humans , all as part of the master plan to take over the Earth . It's up to Keiths ' stoic colleague Curt Taylor ( John Agar ) to save the day . Having read up on director Larry Buchanan , I know that he made very low budget genre entries in Texas , and that , Ed Wood style , his ambition clearly outweighed his talent . His films were by and large of the staggeringly inept variety , and this film ( a supposed remake of Roger Cormans ' " It Conquered the World " ) looks like a good indicator . The actors play this so seriously you won't believe it . Agar , who had certainly performed in more prestigious genre entries than this , is such a professional that he manages to avoid looking embarrassed , which must have been quite some feat indeed . The actors ( including Bill Thurman , who actually acted for Buchanan in a few of his other pictures ) each have to mouth hilarious dialog that adds to the shoddy appeal of the whole film . The title is just the first sign of how silly and endearingly lousy this is . Some folks may find this merely awful , but if you , like me , are able to laugh at this sort of thing , you may get a kick out of it .
I wouldn't call it a " debacle " , but it's hardly Candys ' finest hour .	John Bourgignon ( John Candy ) is a limousine service owner ( with his friend Chick ( Joe Flaherty ) ) and driver who's a drummer in his off time . He's engaged to Nancy ( future ' Wonder Years ' hottie mom Alley Mills ) , the daughter of uptight congressman Ed Reese ( Pat Hingle ) . Reese is currently having it out with a cult headed by Sun Yi Day ( Richard Libertini ) and the cult decides that it will try to get rid of the Reese problem by brainwashing John into killing his future father-in-law . It's certainly a pleasant comedy , nicely performed by its cast . Another of Candys ' ' SCTV ' colleagues , Eugene Levy , pops up as a greasy sleazeball whose one claim to fame is making a no-budget chop-sockey epic called " Kung-Fu U " , and who is pining to be the one to film the wedding . He generates some good laughs , although Flaherty gets precious little to do , and with the exception of a dark-humored , black & white parody of ' Father Knows Best ' and ' Leave It to Beaver ' , Flaherty's not even allowed to be funny . ( Libertini is another usually funny performer whose talents are squandered here . ) The three stars are as likable as they've ever been , anyway , even if the material here is really nothing special . That's not to say that there aren't some great moments . There are some scenes ( like the hippies vs . punks confrontation , which comes from out of nowhere and stops the movie cold ) that drag it down , but there are also some genuine chuckles to be had . " Kung-Fu U " is uproariously stupid , and it's also funny to watch Candy as he's handcuffed to another man ( Ernie Hudson ) who's having sex on the other side of a door . Ultimately , the result is a fairly decent comedy , directed and co-written by comedian David Steinberg . A nice little array of familiar faces fill out supporting roles , including Dixie Carter , Paul Dooley , Kurtwood Smith ( Anyone who loved his performance in " RoboCop " should note that his character name here is also Clarence ! ) , Gloria Gifford , Murphy Dunne , Julius Harris , and Rosalind Chao . I enjoyed this one to a degree , but I still think it's one of the less notable movies in the careers of its stars . Still , if you're a fan , you may want to check it out for yourself .
This Is Basically Confusing .	Drama / action / mystery in which ace interrogator John Travolta is called in by Tim Daly , commander of a base in Panama , to speak to the survivors of a training mission gone wrong . Trouble is , nothing is clear about the whole sordid mess . . . While this slick movie has an endless supply of story twists , I was more ANNOYED by the twists than anything else . The stellar cast gives it 100 percent , including a surprisingly GOOD performance by Giovanni Ribisi . The relentlessly bad weather becomes monotonous after a while . Worst of all , though , the story's final , ultimate twist is utterly ridiculous and makes the whole darn movie feel like a waste of time . I was left thinking , " Geez , what did I watch this for ? " And what is the point of the opening narration ? Director John McTiernan should stick to more straightforward action movies . The cast saves it from disaster - thank God .
Entertaining as long as you're partial to cheaply made genre junk .	Laura ( Jennifer Billingsley ) , Claire ( Judith McConnell ) , Ann ( Fredricka Meyers ) , and Bonnie ( Chiqui da Rosa ) are four lovely young ladies abducted from Manila ; theirs and other disappearances are attributed to what is believed to be a white slavery ring , but the truth is great schlocky horror film material . They're intended to supply blood for a jungle-dwelling tribe that downs the red stuff in order to live forever . Laura , however , happens to resemble the woman in a painting they keep , and they decide to turn her rather than use her . Tribe member Baru ( John Considine ) falls for her , and turns against the tribe as well . " The Thirsty Dead " works for me , and might work for others , as the kind of movie that is not " good " by any stretch of the imagination , but offers a fair bit of fun regardless . Now , I will agree with others that it's rather lacking in energy , but it's agreeably silly low-budget escapism just the same . While the audience is likely to take it a lot less seriously than anyone on screen , the kind of unintentional humor that it provides does make it entertaining in its own way , in the tradition of cheap B-movies throughout the ages . I found it somewhat colorful entertainment , enjoying the costumes , sets & location work , and appreciable eye candy . We eventually get to see hordes of aged past victims ( covered in very crude makeup ) rising up against the tribe , which makes the climax a good deal of tacky fun . Naturally , none of the acting here is particularly competent , but , again , it's just part of the mild charm of the movie . McConnell comes off best as the sassy and unconcerned Claire , a go-go dancer who wouldn't at all mind becoming part of the tribe . Tani Guthrie supplies a nice amount of camp as the dragon lady villainess , while Considine - an unlikely romantic lead , to be sure - is just as amusing for being so sincere ! ( He has a climactic scene where he starts aging rapidly , using the old-fashioned time lapse technique , but the result is a hilariously bad job of old-age makeup . ) Prolific Filipino actor Vic Diaz appears as a police lieutenant late in the movie . I won't deny that this is basically garbage , but it's watchable enough garbage in any event .
I think the world of cinema has seen enough giant snakes . . .	In the Antarctic , a heavily fortified maximum security prison has been built that extends deep below the ice . When the team building the prison deliberately drills through a hollow rock formation , they manage to unleash a million-year-old , 100-foot long snake - which then sets out to do what every giant reptile in this kind of movie would set out to do . Lunch , anyone ? Like I said in the summary . . . The film had some potential , I think , and the director , composer , production designer and cinematographer create an imposing atmosphere . It starts off well enough , but disappointingly turns into yet another routine , predictable and cliched rehash of " Aliens " , with stock characters to boot . Furthermore , I hate computer-generated snakes - how can one possibly be scared of the snake when we KNOW it's not really there ? I'd almost accept a giant rubber snake over this thing . Stupid ending , too . This B-picture could easily have been simple direct-to-video-and-DVD junk . Still , when all was said and done , I gave it . It was nice to actors Grand L . Bush and Craig Wasson again ; when was the last time these actors appeared in a major motion picture ? Director Phillip J . Roth was also a producer of the direct-to-video-and-DVD snake sequel " Python 2 " , which also incidentally featured actor Marcus Aurelius , who appears in this movie as a pilot . Star Dean Cain is certainly likable and animated enough in the lead but I had such a problem with his character's seemingly casual acceptance of the fact when it looks like the snake has snatched his wife . Notice the next time you see him . No emotion whatsoever ! I don't think any of us ever need to see a giant snake movie . . . EVER . . . again .
Less than stellar Corman / Poe movie .	Guy Carrell ( Ray Milland ) is a painter obsessed with prevention of being buried alive . Try as he might , he can't get it out of his mind , no matter how his wife Emily ( Hazel Court ) or friend Miles ( Richard Ney ) try to help him . This Edgar Allan Poe-based Roger Corman picture , scripted by Charles Beaumont and Ray Russell , is not really compelling viewing for me . It's missing something - maybe a little more flair , maybe better pacing - but it just didn't generate a high level of interest for me . Photography and design help a bit , as well as good performances and a decent finish , but I wasn't as impressed with " The Premature Burial " as I was with " The Masque of the Red Death " . Atmosphere is fine , but maybe not as potent as I would have liked . The best part is Milland's dream sequence although even this part does go on too long . Incidentally , I didn't know that was Dick Miller in the role of the gravedigger named " Mole " - I didn't even recognize him ! Not great but not too bad either .
I Think It's A Mixed Bag .	Henry Thomas plays Nick Parker , a struggling painter and drawing instructor who lives in a dank , dark apartment building . On the night that mystery man Will ( David O'Hara ) moves into the apartment above him , Nick's landlord is found savagely murdered . Nick spends the rest of the movie going through weird experiences and hallucinations that call his sanity into question . The first movie-making effort by Alex Winter , best known as " Bill " in the " Bill & Ted " comedies , this incredibly bleak thriller is kind of hard to comprehend at times , with an ending I just don't understand , but Winter does at the least succeed in creating a genuinely creepy and subtle movie that doesn't rely on any formula or thriller cliches . The performances are enjoyably low-key . I thought it was okay entertainment , similar to the 2001 movie " Session 9 " , with some boring stretches but enough assets to counterbalance its flaws . I gave it .
At the least , it's not quite the embarrassment that was the " Psycho " remake .	Mostly faithful remake of a memorable 1976 horror movie in which the future American Ambassador to England , Robert Thorn ( Liev Schrieber ) substitutes an orphan for his own stillborn son . This orphan will grow up to be Damien Thorn ( Seamus Davey-Fitzpatrick ) , who Robert will discover is the son of none other than the Antichrist . As others have said , if you've seen the 1976 version , you'll know mostly what to expect , and that will unfortunately remove too much of the suspense . If you're new to the story and the characters , you'll get a fairly interesting and entertaining horror movie that's at least technically well made and moves along well to its conclusion . It's updated to the modern era with , Hurricane Katrina , and other horrible events referenced as part of the plot . There are some changes here and there so it won't feel like a complete carbon copy ; I definitely enjoyed the climactic reunion of Thorn with Father Spiletto , the man who initiated the exchange in the first place . The elaborate death scenes ( still inventively realized ) are slightly re-tooled , with the exception of one that is markedly different than what came before . The cast aren't going to make those of us who remember the original actors forget them any time soon . Schrieber , ordinarily a reliable actor , is monotonous throughout , with Julia Stiles giving a better effort as Katherine . Such great talents as Pete Postlethwaite ( as Father Brennan ) , David Thewlis ( as the photographer Jennings ) , and Michael Gambon ( as Bugenhagen ) comprise a solid supporting cast . The stunt casting of Mia Farrow as the 2006 incarnation of demonic nanny Mrs . Baylock will provide for some amusement for anyone who's seen " Rosemary's Baby " , to be sure , but while it's fun to watch her play evil for once , the bottom line is that she just isn't scary as Billie Whitelaw was . Fans of early 1980's horror films will enjoy the cameo by Giovanni Lombardo Radice ( " Cannibal Ferox " , " House on the Edge of the Park " ) as Father Spiletto . Davey-Fitzpatrick acts as if he was paid by the bratty glower ; I found the original Damien , Harvey Stephens ( doing a cameo here as a paparazzi ) more effective because he was such an adorable moppet it was hard to buy him as the spawn of Satan . Overall , this remake is slick , sometimes a little flashy , and watchable enough . Modern references aside ( in addition to the well-timed marketing gimmick of a Satanic-themed remake released on June 6 , 2006 ) , there's not much point to it . It doesn't dishonor the memory of the original , but doesn't really add anything to it either .
This time . . . it's routine .	Third " Jaws " sequel in which the now widowed Ellen Brody ( Lorraine Gary ) receives news of the worst sort : her son Sean ( Mitchell Anderson ) , now the deputy police chief of Amity , has been gobbled up by yet another hungry shark . Ellen becomes convinced that it is the fate of the Brody family to be forever pursued by hungry sharks . She spends some time with her older son Michael ( Lance Guest ) , a marine biologist , in the Bahamas , and wouldn't you know it . . . guess what shows up ? The recipient of some of the worst reviews and ratings of all time , this forgettable and ludicrous " nature-run-amok " thriller occupies a place of dishonor on IMDb's bottom 100 . While I am not going to sit here and extol virtues of this movie that don't exist , I must confess that I myself don't hate it . The movie really suffers from screenwriter Michael de Guzman's ridiculous contrivances - which many people simply cannot tolerate - but for me it's not a horrible way to spend ( or kill ) time . I think it's passable , although that's mainly due to the film-makers . Acting is tolerable ( I wish people wouldn't rip poor Gary to pieces ; she's not THAT bad ) ; however , I will agree that Michael Caine is wasted in the unimportant role of Hoagie , the airplane pilot . Shark effects are variable ; in some scenes it's all too obvious the shark is a fake . Best scene is probably the one where the shark pursues Michael through the shipwreck ( ask yourself this , though : how did the shark get inside the shipwreck ? ) . Yeah , all in all , it's really the writing more than anything else that fails to measure up in this , the least of all the " Jaws " movies . This was one of the very few film roles for adorable young Judith Barsi ( as Michael's daughter ) ; she was senselessly murdered by her stupid lowlife father . Both Mario and Melvin Van Peebles have roles in the film ( as Michael's associate Jake and Mr . Witherspoon , respectively ) .
Lovably inept monster mayhem from Crown International .	In this goofy combination of low-budget sci-fi horror schlock and hicksploitation , a meteor crashes into a lake and incubates a long dormant dinosaur ( in this case a plesiosaur ) egg which hatches months later . The enormous menace proceeds to terrorize the locals until they figure out what they're up against and set out to destroy it . To begin with , I think this movie got off to a good start . It had some very atmospheric shots ( the cinematography is excellent ) and the set-up was decent . Ultimately , it can't help but descend into outright laughable , so-crummy-it's-divine drive-in fare , with some wonderfully absurd dialog and situations . Sort of counter-acting that is a high likability and amusement factor . The stop-motion animation of the lumbering beast is fine , but it ends up getting too much screen time , when I think it would have been better to hold off a reveal until the climax . There's also too much padding ; the comedy relief redneck buddies Arnie and Mitch start off as amiable but they end up with too much screen time and eventually wear out their welcome . The subplot with the murderous robber was kind of useless and not really handled all that well . The acting is naturally not so hot either . Still , it has an old-fashioned ( it sometimes looks like it could have been made even earlier than the ' 70's ) midnight movie feel and the level of badness is rather endearing . What can I say ? I know that like many other movies of its kind , it's got its heart in the right place . The talent just ain't there . When all is said and done , it does have its moments . Written by director William R . Stromberg and leading man Richard Cardella ( who plays the sheriff ) ; the stop-motion animation is by David Allen .
Like watching the ' Dukes of Hazzard ' but with martial arts fights .	Billy Dawes ( Michael Augenstein ) is an annoying young trucker who is incarcerated and otherwise treated like st by stereotypically ignorant and moronic redneck cops in a dirtwater California town presided over by cheerfully corrupt Judge Trimmings ( George Murdock of ' Barney Miller ' ) . Billy's older brother is fellow trucker and karate expert J . D . Dawes ( Chuck Norris ) who goes searching for his sibling and finds nothing but trouble . Simplistic and air-headed " ya-HOO ! " action movie with lots of fights and no substance at all . It's purely routine action with a steady supply of worthless goons and thugs for Chuck to fight . I wouldn't place this at the bottom of the action movie barrel but it's not as well made or stimulating as others of its kind . The acting is underwhelming right down the line , although Chuck , as usual , gets by thanks to a certain likability ( he certainly can't do it through acting talent ) . Question : why is J . D . fighting deputy Boles ( Ron Cedillos ) at the end when he should be fighting the sadistic creep Sergeant Strode ( Don Gentry ) instead ? By the way , this fight goes on longer than necessary and I wished Boles would have been taken out a lot sooner . The climax , involving lots of J . D . ' s trucker friends , is stupid but amusing . However , the fate of Trimmings and his legion of bruisers is left unexplained . John DiFusco , who plays the mentally slow ' Arney ' , was also the movie's casting director , and producer / director Don Hulette also composed the music . This was the only film appearance for much of the supporting cast , although future David Lynch actor Jack Nance turns up as a buddy of J . D . ' s .
Many of you will probably say I need my head examined , but . . .	. . . I actually don't mind this movie . I think that it's a weird , silly hybrid of horror , science-fiction , thriller , and comedy , and that its casual depiction of over-the-top cruelty really works against it . It's definitely minor genre fare , but it's creepy enough to stand on its own . Many people seem to despise it merely for being a " Halloween " sequel in name only . That's right , it has nothing to do with Michael Myers , Dr . Sam Loomis , Laurie Strode , or the town of Haddonfield , Illinois . It's about a California doctor ( Tom Atkins ) who investigates the bizarre murder of a distraught John Doe at a hospital and comes across an incredibly evil factory boss ( Dan O'Herlihy ) who's devised an insane plot to murder millions of children using his booby-trapped Halloween masks . Good , if gruesome , makeup effects , and OK performances help , and it's amusing to see that veteran actor O'Herlihy seems to be having fun . Nothing great , but I wouldn't put this on my bottom 100 list either . The music score seems reminiscent of two other John Carpenter movies ( he was a co-producer on this one ) from the same period : the scores for " The Thing " AND " Christine " . Oh , by the way ? That jingle in the commercial is truly aggravating the first time I hear it , and then it gets played over and over and over again . You'd think writer / director Tommy Lee Wallace was deliberately intending to frustrate the audience .
Agreeably silly early 60's horror schlock .	Dr . Bill Cortner ( Jason Evers ) is a surgeon with big ideas and big plans . Basically , he's your standard-issue mad scientist , and his theme is transplants . When he races to the family-owned country home where he performs his experiments , he causes a horrible car crash in which girlfriend Jan ( Virginia Leith ) is decapitated . The stubborn doc , determined for a successful operation as well as to restore Jan to the way she was before , turns her into a living severed head while he goes about searching for a suitable donor body . This is all very laughable , especially when Jan starts spouting dialog about " power " and " revenge " . It's a real hoot considering all of this is coming from a head in a pan . The accent on sex - as the viewer joins Bill in the ogling of female flesh - is an undeniable appeal . It's all so outrageous and sleazy and its crazy plot kept me watching . Particularly amusing were the comments directed by Jan to a monster kept inside a closet ; it was fairly interesting the way the movie built up curiosity as to what this monster would look like . The handsome Evers is rather under-stated as the determined doc , with Leith contributing much of the camp appeal as the yappy severed head . Leslie Daniel isn't bad as the hapless assistant Kurt , and Adele Lamont is quite a stunner as Cortners ' selection for the donor body . Circus giant Eddie Carmel plays the monster buried under a pretty good makeup job . It's dumb but definitely a good kind of dumb . It has that low , low budget " midnite movie " appeal that keeps it watchable .
Not as much fun as I would have liked .	Jack ( Ross Hagen , who also shares story credit and co-directed ) is a fashion photographer who calls to mind the title character from the 1978 thriller " Eyes of Laura Mars " . His big idea is to combine sex and violence by having his models pose with weapons and by setting them amid scenes of carnage . When he brings a bunch of girls to a ranch in the wilderness , people begin dying , thanks to a psycho obviously scarred by a traumatic upbringing . It's ultimately disappointing because for one thing there's an awful lot of time-wasting build-up here . It takes almost an hour for the movie to get to the good stuff , and even then there's not much in the way of T & A and violence . There's a lot of fine looking ladies , but they're kept clothed too much of the time . As things turn out , it's best to not take any of this seriously . A case in point : a ridiculous motorcycle accident . The climax has some decent special effects but it also gets positively silly as the killer starts making inane wisecracks . At the least , it's interesting to see Gregory Scott Cummins , as a jealous heel boyfriend , in a rare heroic role here , as you may have seen him usually playing some sort of scuzzy or villainous character in assorted action movies ( like " Stone Cold " ( 1991 ) or " Cliffhanger " ) . Hagen is certainly engaging in his role , with solid support from Troy Donahue as Hagens ' assistant and Hoke Howell as a mystery man hanging around . Keely Sims is appealing as Cindy . While not very satisfying overall , it was a mildly diverting hoot of a movie . Folks should just be warned beforehand that it comes up too short in the sleaze department .
Silly and schlocky junk , but fairly entertaining .	A group of vacationers pay to visit an island paradise presided over by Baron Von Weser ( Cameron Mitchell ) . Little do they know what kind of experiments that this mad scientist is conducting in seclusion . His star attraction is his " vampire tree " creation , sucking all of the blood out of hapless victims , decimating the vacationers one at a time . Directed by actor Mel Welles ( a regular in Roger Corman films , most notably " The Little Shop of Horrors " ) , this cheap , cheesy schlock is moderately entertaining as a guilty pleasure . Featuring typically bad dubbing , interesting low-grade special effects , a surprisingly gory finish , nice photography , a nondescript cast , and a most amusing music score , it should hit the spot for lovers of B movies . I imagine the best time to watch such a flick would be early morning , when it would be most likely to be shown on TV . It does have that sort of appeal going for it . Mitchell , despite clearly being dubbed by some other actor , portrays a smooth , dapper antagonist , who manages to retain his cool for the balance of the picture . George Martin is the requisite hero , Elisa Montes his cute and perky love interest given to fainting at times of stress , Matilde Sampedro the overbearing Myrtle , and Mike Brendel the hulking manservant Baldi . It's not without its share of atmosphere , and pacing is pretty consistent throughout . Ultimately , the best part is the climax , which proves to be worth waiting for . I enjoyed it to a certain extent .
Some Of You Will Obviously Prefer To Skip The Film And Just Have Tea .	Umpteenth big screen version " inspired " by a vintage TV series ; here , the titular spies John Steed ( Ralph Fiennes ) and Dr . Emma Peel ( Uma Thurman ) work to thwart the maniacal plans of Sir August De Wynter ( Sean Connery ) to control the Earth's weather . I actually didn't find it to be the monumental bomb that many believe it to be . It's a highly irreverent - I would even say silly - spy movie with too much reliance on visual gimmicks and special effects . It has a top-notch British supporting cast , Fiennes is OK but nothing special , Thurman is sleek , sexy and oh-so-appealing , but Connery is actually monotonous ( in a real teeth-gnashing kind of way ) as the nasty bad guy . Maybe I AM really too easy to please at times , but it actually started to get fun for me during the climax . I wasn't overly impressed with the script , though : the screenwriter was obviously working overtime to be as witty as possible . I don't know this for a fact , having never seen the TV series , but is it safe to assume this movie is NOTHING like it ? At least Patrick Macnee , star of the series , is around to contribute a much-needed voice-only cameo .
Not Bad , I Guess .	Craig Ferguson , who played Mr . Wick for a couple of seasons on ' The Drew Carey Show ' co-wrote this concoction about flamboyant hairdresser Crawford Mackenzie ( Ferguson ) who is mistakenly invited to participate in an international hairdressing competition . Mistake or not , he's determined to see this dream of his come true . In the meantime , a documentary film crew is chronicling his every move . The ' mock-umentary ' touch is a good one , Ferguson is quite engaging in the lead , and some of his co-stars are most amusing . There are some funny celebrity cameos , too . Overall , though , I found it highly forgettable , maybe even a little bland . Still , it's a harmless way to spend an hour and a half and I can think of other movies that have been worse wastes of my time . I think it works best as a vehicle for its star . I gave it .
" You could have at least saved the frame . "	Herschell Gordon Lewis's final entry in his sick and sleazy " blood trilogy " tells us the story of artist Adam Sorg ( Don Joseph ) , who's never happy with anything he does . Finally , he hits upon inspiration : human blood makes for great paintings ! Once he's started , he can't stop ; living only to craft his next masterpiece . " Color Me Blood Red " offers the same hard-to-resist ingredients as " Blood Feast " and " 2 , 000 Maniacs " . It's silly stuff firmly rooted in the decade when it was made ; just check out the dialog ( " Holy bananas ! It's a girls ' leg ! " ) and wardrobes . The acting , as usual , is purely amateurish , but it does add to the appeal of this sort of thing . Lewis's gory set pieces are the true tasteless highlights , especially the disembowelment of one silly ditz ( Sorgs ' demise is pretty nifty , too ) . The funky , upbeat music is just priceless ; one piece of music that plays during Sorgs ' first murder I automatically recognized from years of watching re-runs of the 1967-1970 animated ' Spider-Man ' series . That gave me quite the laugh , I can tell you . Since the ineptitude of some elements merely makes the film more entertaining overall , my one big criticism would be the slow pacing of some scenes . It could have been trimmed some , and then it would have had a bit more punch . " 2 , 000 Maniacs " will remain for me the highlight of this series , but this film does at least end the trilogy on an enjoyably sadistic final note . It's a worthy recommendation to old-school exploitation buffs .
Hardly Freddy's Finest Hour .	Sequel to enormous box-office slasher hit of 1984 in which Freddy ( Robert Englund ) , the dream-haunting maniac , is tormenting a teenager named Jesse ( Mark Patton ) , who's moved into Nancy Thompson's old house . Freddy is determined to take possession of Jesse's body so he can start killing in the real world again . This is basically a routine horror movie made mostly to cash in on the success of the first film , with not too much interest in the characters or story . Fairly scary , but the original was better . Special effects are good , performances acceptable ( although Jesse is something of a wimp - you usually don't hear any male scream as much as he does ) . I don't think I necessarily need to flash the word SPOILER here , because it goes without saying that the ending is merely setting up the next sequel . It's sometimes too silly in the non-horror scenes , and it gets kind of repetitive . In the digitally remastered videotape version that I watched , the closing credits feature a song by BING CROSBY . That's too weird . Watch the opening sequence carefully to see Englund without his Freddy Krueger makeup on .
Look out , Chuck's on the warpath again . . .	Enjoyably , hilariously cruddy martial arts / action / revenge saga , ridiculously routine and predictable . Norris , who doesn't even bother TRYING to deliver an actual performance in the movie ( although his silly narration is a funny touch ) , plays a debt collector and security chief for a Hong Kong casino . The stupid son of the casino's father-figure boss gets in deep with mafia goons , led by Stan Raimondi ( Michael Cavanaugh ) , and because the mob boss is the kind of thug who " won't take no for an answer " , both the father and the son end up dead . So what does Chuck do ? Exactly what he's supposed to do in every other film of this kind . He travels the trail of corruption right up to the top ( even Raimondi is answering to someone higher ) ; in a series of repetitive scenes , he goes to see a shady criminal type , and invariably , the shady criminal type refers him to somebody else until finally Chuck finds out who's really in charge . Of course , the main purpose of any Chuck Norris film is to watch the guy in full martial artist mode , swiftly and brutally administering punishment to any half-wit thug stupid enough to take him on . ( One admittedly funny gag is similar to the " shooting the swordsman in the head " classic from " Raiders of the Lost Ark " . ) One thing I've noticed is that in some of his other films Chuck has at least had a good supporting cast to back him up . Here , however , some of the other actors are even worse actors than he is , and some of the non-English speaking performers are horribly dubbed . I really , truly believe that this is a stupid film , but at least it was stupid enough to give me plenty of laughs .
Stupid and obviously proud of it .	Melvin ( Murray Langston ) is a half-wit policeman who gets demoted to night patrol , and paired with the randy and off-the-wall veteran Kent Lane ( Pat Paulsen ) . However , this is a problem for Melvin , because he moonlights as a stand up comic at night , performing with a paper bag over his head and calling himself " The Unknown Comic " . In addition to that , a violent robber who ALSO wears a paper bag over his head has caused suspicion to rain down on Melvin's head . Certifiably junky , crass , and immature cop movie spoof - with gags that may not pass muster in a " Police Academy " sequel - the film-makers do in the end keep this flagrantly bawdy comedy true to itself . There's women with ample bosoms ( especially Frances " Kitten " Natividad ) , a vertically challenged police chief ( a relentlessly hammy Billy Barty ) who farts non-stop - and I mean NON-STOP , one-liners that are actually so lame that they ARE indeed funny , kinky characters , men who speak with women's voices ( including Pat " Mr . Miyagi " Morita , in a role you have to see to believe ) , psychotic , pistol-packing butch lesbians , a childish fondness for gross-out humor , and jokes that are not just in bad taste , they're in the poorest possible taste . Top-billed Linda Blair , despite still having a cute face , had clearly developed an adult woman's body , and was at this time really dipping deep into adult exploitation fare . " Savage Streets " was another of her films from this period . Her character is named Sue Perman just so she can be addressed as " Superman " at one point . That's an example of this film's sense of humor . You may think that a bunch of 11 and 12 year olds wrote this picture . Andrew " Dice " Clay has a recurring small role , for those of you who are interested . It looks here like this film has turned into a personal taste sort of item - viewers either love it or loathe it . What I do in this kind of case is to usually give the film : . A sickening , hall of fame embarrassment or a masterpiece of juvenile idiocy ? You be the judge .
So-So .	A team of elite commandoes infiltrate a place that is a great big cliche in films of this kind : a top-secret research facility that's doing creepy things with viruses and genetics , and where ( of course ) things have gone bad . . . all the employees turn into zombies , the guard dogs mutate , and the lab's computer system is on a power trip . Based on a video game that I understand is very popular , this film plays mainly like a rehash of Aliens , with routine , unimaginative characters . . . and with zombies standing in for the creatures in Aliens . Film certainly looks great , has some ingenious effects , and does have Michelle Rodriguez , but it doesn't come off as anything other than ordinary , ultimately ( for my tastes , anyway ) . Those mutated dogs are pretty cool , though . I gave it .
" Hey , you look good for a girl covered in giant fish brains . "	Ridiculous but amusing direct-to-video B-movie junk . An odd and patently dangerous new variety of fish appears in swamp country and proceeds to devour the locals . A medical examiner ( Tory Kittles ) and a biologist ( China Chow ) are probing the murder of a local and soon find out what it is that they are up against . As usual for this type of film , the monster itself is an animated creation , but it is wisely kept in the dark a good deal of the time , which helps it to be more menacing instead of just provoking laughs . " Frankenfish " ( an appropriate title for such a silly romp ) works for me on its simple little level because the filmmakers make the smart move of not taking themselves too seriously . It's fairly predictable , although there was at least one death that I was not expecting . The unexpected appearance of a few familiar faces ( Muse Watson ( the fisherman from the " I Know " and " I Still Know What You Did Last Summer " films ) , Richard Edson ( as a dread locked stoner white guy ) , Mark Boone Junior , Tomas Arana , and Marco St . John ) was sort of the drawing card for me , other than the chance to see Chow again , an actress who doesn't appear in film often enough to suit me . The comic highlight has to be the impromptu barbecue that sets up an important plot twist . Co-star Matthew Rauch is stuck in the obligatory role of " The Annoying Character " , i . e . the one character who we will NEED to see die before the final credits roll . When all was said and done , I can't deny that this stupid little film was kind of a hoot .
" A man runs , someone shoots at him . "	Tor Johnson plays Joseph Javorsky , " noted scientist " as we are constantly reminded by the narration , who travels to the United States with important documents in a briefcase . Soviet agents tail him there and chase him into an atomic testing range where exposure to radiation turns him into a shambling monster that must go out and kill . Meanwhile , two local cops try to track him down . This is a monumentally ponderous and utterly ridiculous no-budget pile of junk that simply amazes because it's so bad . For a movie that only runs 54 minutes long it's staggering to think just how short it could have been had writer / director Coleman Francis had any sense of pacing . The music is hilariously melodramatic and is indicative of how seriously Francis seems to be taking his material . Johnson is a rather non-threatening killer ; it's actually sort of crazily endearing how non-threatening he is . ( One's gotta love that saccharine sweet ending where he kisses the bunny rabbit . Awww . ) Francis himself supplies the mind-boggling narration . It goes so overboard in attempts to be philosophical and profound and yet is so random ( " Flag on the moon . How'd it get there ? " ) and odd that it becomes positively gut-busting . As a matter of fact , any time this movie isn't just plain boring , it's hysterically silly . That one moment where Francis seems to be paying tribute to the crop dusting sequence of " North by Northwest " was certainly unexpected and highly amusing to say the least . It should be worth checking out for fans of Ed Wood's work to see both Johnson and Conrad Brooks , Brooks appearing in a small role as the man at the airfield . It's one of those enjoyably bad B's that viewers simply have to see for themselves .
Rats and cheese : a very appropriate combination here .	Who would ever have thought that Bert I . Gordon's 1976 film adaptation of the H . G . Wells story " The Food of the Gods " would spawn a sequel , especially 13 years after the fact ? This is actually an in-name-only sequel , and the only animals to grow to huge proportions here are rats . They're kept in the lab of Professor Neil Hamilton ( Paul Coufos , who bears a slight resemblance to Jeff Fahey ) , a geneticist working on plants . However , when a colleague implores him to create an antidote for a growth formula , he eventually starts working on animals . Thanks to the bungling of some animal rights activists , the rats escape and go on the inevitable rampage . It becomes clear early on just how seriously one should take this fun if utterly ridiculous horror film . There's a child named Bobby ( Sean Mitchell ) who was given the growth formula and is now an ill-tempered giant-sized brat with a hilariously foul mouth . ( The use of this character supposedly pays off in what is a pretty silly finish . ) The music score is at times just plain absurd , and , overall , the film is just chock full of bad lines , not-so-hot acting , stock characters ( we've got a college dean who acts dense at every turn , and an unscrupulous fellow professor ) , and a lack of good scares . If one accepts it as tongue-in-cheek , it may yield more entertainment . I thought it stupid enough to be rather fun ( I plead guilty to enjoying films of the " so bad they're good " variety ) , and it's certainly amusing to watch the actors keep their straight faces . We've also got a commendably high body count , visual and makeup effects that range from amusing to cruddy , and some appreciably gory rat attacks . Folks may recognize some of the actors : Lisa Schrage as the love interest was the vengeance seeking title character in " Hello Mary Lou : Prom Night II " , and doubtless you'll have seen Jackie Burroughs ( ' Road to Avonlea ' ) and / or Colin Fox ( ' PSI Factor ' ) in one thing or another . This is indeed a junk film , but if you have a thing for rat-themed horror flicks ( the ' 71 and ' 03 versions of " Willard " , " Deadly Eyes " , " Of Unknown Origin " , etc . ) you may want to take a look , if just for curiosity's sake .
Fairly enjoyable horror schlock .	From director Ted V . Mikels comes this silly movie that has an entertaining premise courtesy of Joseph Cranston and Arch Hall Sr . : to cut costs , cat food company bosses Landau ( Sanford Mitchell ) and Maltby ( J . Byron Foster ) start making human bodies the primary ingredient of their product . They use cadavers supplied by a gravedigger named Caleb ( Warren Ball ) , but it doesn't take much for them to start resorting to outright murder . While this is going down , a Dr . Howard Glass ( Sean Kenney ) and his sexy blonde nurse Angie Robinson ( Monika Kelly ) notice that pet cats are now attacking their owners , and that the cat food is the common denominator . So they start playing amateur detective and find themselves in lots of trouble . I had no illusions going in that this would be high quality stuff . I know of the directors ' work , so was prepared to be entertained for all the wrong reasons . That said , this was mildly amusing . It has its quirky little touches - Calebs ' partner Cleo ( Ann Noble ) carries around a doll that gets a serving of soup at dinner time , Landau and Maltby employ a mute named Tessie ( Drucilla Hoy ) who's also physically disabled . You can't accuse these guys of discrimination ! The obviously low , low budget allows for some chuckles . The corpse grinding machine is hilariously low-tech , but it still does the job of turning human bodies into hamburger in just seconds . The movie falls too short in some departments , namely gore and nudity . There's some hot looking women here , who do strip down to bra and panties , but that's as far as it goes . People expecting more of a sleaze fest are going to be disappointed . At least viewers can take pleasure in some of the sillier moments , like the hilariously unconvincing cat attacks . Overall , I thought it was a reasonably fun ridiculous low-budget genre flick . The good thing is that it's over fairly quickly .
Okay for its type of film .	Candy ( 1970's B-movie goddess Claudia Jennings ) and Ellie-Jo ( Jocelyn Jones , daughter of character actor Henry Jones ) are two lively , sexy young women who make their way through Texas , robbing banks but using sticks of dynamite instead of the more traditional method of guns . They take the affable young Slim ( veteran singing star Johnny Crawford , who looks a little like Noah Wyle if you squint ) hostage and he warms up to them quickly , so for a while they actually become a threesome . " The Great Texas Dynamite Chase " marked the directorial debut of journeyman-type director Michael Pressman , who as the biography on the DVD says has directed in several different genres ( but who hit rock bottom with the second Ninja Turtles movie ) . Here he has fashioned a fairly typical 1970's drive-in type of picture with two dynamic and sexy stars who manage to make it something worth watching . Jennings , who was sadly lost in a car accident in 1979 , and Jones share some chemistry and come off as basically decent folk . It isn't until late in the film that they start killing people - and that's out of necessity . The similarities to this film and Ridley Scott's 1991 feminist / road-movie " Thelma and Louise " are noticeable . I can believe that this picture might have served as a bit of inspiration for the later picture . Crawford is a pretty likable " aw-shucks " kind of guy , and there's a few - just a few - familiar faces in the supporting cast : Priscilla Pointer , mother of Amy Irving and this film's producer David Irving , Stefan Gierasch ( interestingly , both he and Pointer were also in " Carrie " , released the same year as this ) and Marvin J . McIntyre , a future portrayer of eccentric character parts in the 1980's . Jones ended up marrying a guy named Miles Watkins , who has a pretty small part in this . Like I said , it's fair entertainment of its type - but it's definitely the main players who play a big part in its appeal .
Howie should stick with what he does best .	Set in the Pacific Northwest , this is the story of Jesse ( athlete turned broadcaster turned actor and commercial pitchman Howie Long ) , a " smoke jumper " whose job it is to parachute into the midst of forest fires from above when it is too dangerous for ground crews to infiltrate them . The villainous Shaye ( William Forsythe ) masterminds a prison break by having somebody on the outside start a forest fire so he can get on a work crew and therefore leave the prison . Although the pyrotechnics are professionally done and believable , I must say that this is ultimately a routine and forgettable story ( it could have easily been direct to video type stuff ) ; it's the kind of action thriller that only comes to ( marginal ) life during its action scenes . Most things in this movie are oh so familiar . Forsythe's character is a brutal , barbaric thug , although in some scenes he actually plays him with a sense of humor . Of course , he's the kind of guy who doesn't care who he has to kill ( or rough up ) in order to get what he wants . By the way , that is a hilariously bad Canadian accent Forsythe attempts at one point ; even the French-Canadian accent Rosanna Arquette attempted in " The Whole Nine Yards " was more believable than his . The directorial debut of a talented cinematographer named Dean Semler , it's not surprising that this movie is photographed well , but overall there's not a lot to recommend in this competent but uninspired movie .
Silly slasher movie ; has a somewhat creepy quality to it .	Low , low budget Oregon-filmed slasher about three attractive young girls who undertake a long road trip to attend a rock festival . A storm causes them to have an accident deep in the woods , and they end up in the mansion of the local eccentrics . The old lady living there has a passionate hatred of men , and rags on her daughter something fierce . And there seems to be a mysterious presence around , breathing heavily while leering through peepholes . Producer / director Don Gronquist knows , at least , what fans of these movies enjoy , so he obliges : there's tasty servings of full frontal female nudity , and some effectively graphic murders . The acting is just atrocious , with Virginia Settle as the old lady as far and away the worst offender ( bad acting is most often to be expected in this sort of fare , but it reached a new low for me here ) . Unfortunately , impatience was aroused rather than tension created ; the movie plods along and made me wait long stretches for the really interesting stuff to happen . The music is hilariously , perfectly dreadful . . . or should I say dreadfully perfect ? Gronquist gives the movie a decidedly odd quality ( very " Psycho " inspired ) and delivers a decent twist ending with a high kink factor , where it all becomes a matter of sexual repression and identity . It's also decidedly downbeat , which I wasn't expecting , so I can say that the movie did do a good job of keeping me off balance . Slasher fans who like to root out the more obscure stuff may want to give it a try . Personally , I found myself laughing more than anything else ; I wasn't entertained all that much . It has its moments , just not a lot of them .
The party's just getting started . . .	So-so horror movie from the 1980's about a stereotypical group of brainless teenagers who decide to throw the ultimate Halloween party in the most painfully obvious of locales : a possessed mortuary . As the night progresses , more and more of the kids fall victim to demonic possession and terrorize the others . This probably won't become one of my favorite 1980's era horror movies , if only because it seems like just so much stuff that I've seen before . It doesn't get as lively as I would have hoped , nor is it particularly stylish . The young cast is largely nondescript , although Linnea Quigly seems , as always , willing to disrobe at a moment's notice . Don Jeffcoat is the perfect bratty younger brother . Mimi ( a . k . a . Amelia ) Kinkade has a memorable dance sequence ( in fact , she supervised the choreography ) and Steve Johnson - once Quigley's husband - supplies some pretty impressive makeup and gore - though the highlight there has to involve a tube of lipstick and one of Quigley's breasts . Frankly , it is also unpleasant for these film-makers to have a token African-American character and have him also be - up until a certain point - a loud and flamboyant coward . The music and songs are okay ; they are supplied by Dennis Michael Tenney , a veteran sound man and composer who may be related to director Kevin S . Tenney , although I don't know for sure . The film features one of the most hilarious bad actors that I've ever seen : Harold Ayer as the old grouch . It's a moderately fun haunted ( excuse me , I mean possessed ) house romp , but that's it .
Above average cast in so-so movie .	A Midwestern town is rapidly disappearing under a raging flood ; during this crisis armored car guard Tom ( Christian Slater ) is fleeing from criminals , headed by Jim ( Morgan Freeman ) , who want the $3 million in cash that he's successfully managed to hide away . Certainly watchable enough , but not as invigorating as the film-makers probably believed it to be . Action scenes are sort of perfunctory ; the main thing that this film has to offer is a number of effective performances : by Freeman , Randy Quaid as the bitter and angry local sheriff , Edward Asner as one of his standard-issue crusty characters , Mark Rolston as the unfriendly and creepy police officer Hank , etc . ( I'm sorry , but Slater has never been one of my favorite actors , not ever . He can be very amusing , but I think that sometimes he just falls short as an actor . ) It moves along well enough , and it was somewhat atmospheric . What weighs it down ( and almost makes it sink , you might say ) is uninspired writing . It could be worse , though . At 97 minutes long it's never TOO much of a chore to sit through .
Bela Lugosi is a treat to watch in this one .	Ed Wood strikes again with this silly creature feature about maniacal Dr . Vornoff ( Bela Lugosi , an absolute delight ) , who's created a " monster " , an octopus that he periodically lets loose into the local swamp . Of course , the monster snacks on a few hapless victims here and there , prompting stubborn , pushy , and super-obnoxious reporter Janet Lawton ( Loretta King ) to come up with fantastical stories about the disappearances . Janet herself is taken by Vornoff's lumbering manservant Lobo ( Tor Johnson ) , so that she may be the title character , but her detective boyfriend Dick Craig ( Tony McCoy ) comes to the rescue . What I like about " Bride of the Monster " and its brethren is that , even if it can be said that they're lacking in technical quality , they at least have a real sense of fun to them . They have that hard-to-resist " midnight movie " appeal and in fact would probably play best at that time of night . It's utter schlock , but is still undeniably amusing . Playing no small a part in my enjoyment is Bela Lugosi , looking so happy to be getting work that he gives his mad scientist role everything he's got , even delivering a touching moment when at one point he declares that he " has no home " . Both Johnson and Harvey B . Dunn , also looking like he's enjoying himself as Captain Robbins ( his lovably ridiculous gimmick is the pet bird often perched on his shoulder ) are a real gas as well . Paul Marco plays his signature role of Kelton the cop for the first time here . I can't say much for McCoy or King , although it must be said that she does play obnoxious well . Much of the unintentional humor here derives from whenever actors have to perform with the inert prop meant to be the monster . They basically have to do all the work while the octopus just sits there ! Frank Worth's music , an actually fairly tense moment involving Dick and an approaching alligator , and a reasonable stab at creating atmosphere all work in this film's favor . While I'm not going to argue that " Bride of the Monster " is particularly good , I don't think it's all that terrible either . It may not be made with that much skill , but it's made with heart , and sometimes that does in fact count for something .
I admit it ; I tend to enjoy movies of this type .	In this futuristic sci-fi tale , a ranger named Dogen ( Jeffrey Byron ) seeks to track down a megalomaniac named Jared-Syn ( Mike Preston ) . The bad guy controls a horde of one-eyed henchmen , with a hideout deep in the mountains . The silly plot also involves use and worship of crystals , and an imperiled , sexy young miner named Dhyana ( Kelly Preston ) whose father was murdered by Syns ' young " son " Baal ( R . David Smith ) . As far as cheap ' n ' cheesy sci-fi B cinema goes ( and this is very cheap ' n ' cheesy ) , it's endurable enough . Maybe it's not very exciting or imaginative or slick , and maybe it's pretty forgettable in the end , but an undemanding viewer of this sort of fare might find it amiable enough . It was filmed in 3-D , at a time when the process was undergoing something of a revival , so if a viewer gets the opportunity to see it that way , that would certainly give it a little extra appeal . At the very least , I can't completely knock a movie with B-movie favorite Tim Thomerson and Richard Moll in its cast . They're fun , making up for lead Byron , who's hunky and rugged but also on the bland side , and sexy young Preston , yet to really hit her stride as an actress . Larry Pennell is also good in his brief time on-screen . Richard Bands ' music score is enjoyable , and the rural settings are well utilized . The movie moves along well enough , although the ending is unfortunately rather lame . Lovers of low-tech , low-budget genre movies might enjoy this ; it certainly has its heart in the right place , anyway .
It IS kind of a stupid title .	Depressed former FBI agent Jeremiah Ecks ( Antonio Banderas ) , mourning the loss of his wife , is tricked into performing another service when his former superior tells him that lethal , efficient operative Sever ( Lucy Liu ) will be able to tell where his wife is . Turns out , Sever is not the real villain of the story , and is instead actually seeking revenge . I had to sort of weigh the good and the bad here : This is a routine action thriller made with some competence ( be on the lookout for lots of gun battles , tons of fiery explosions , and a bevy of martial arts fights and vehicle chases ) but it doesn't really have a brain , heart , or soul . I've seen worse action thrillers but I also must say that I HAVE seen better . Banderas seems half asleep , and Liu is monotonous ( then again , she usually is ) ; the supporting cast is either acceptable ( Gregg Henry , Ray Park , Terry Chen ) or drab ( Talisa Soto delivers a flat performance that I just didn't like ) . It doesn't really deserve it , but I gave it because I felt charitable .
Silly sci-fi effort is sometimes a real hoot .	Edgar Rice Burroughs adaptation in which Doug McClure ( who was in a couple of similar 1970's genre entries ) and a hilariously daffy Peter Cushing play Victorian era scientists who burrow into the inner earth in a giant mechanical " mole " and encounter a primitive civilization that is terrorized by some ridiculous looking monsters . This kind of reminded me of some of those old ' Spider-Man ' ( the 1967-1970 animated series ) episodes where he'd go beneath the Earth or to remote locations and encounter a non-stop variety of truly wacky creatures . The creatures in this movie are so absurd that I got a lot of laughs out of them . I'm not sure if the film-makers intended this film to be so funny , but that's the way that it ends up . Yes , an adaptation of this story probably could have been better with a bigger budget and better production values , but at least if it's good for laughs - even unintentional ones , that counts for something . McClure is merely passable , but Cushing was fun in his hammy performance , and Caroline Munro is as always an alluring bit of eye candy . The sets , special effects , and photography fare a little better than the creature work - this film was moderately interesting to look at . Overall , I kind of liked it basically because it was so darn silly . At least nobody in the cast seems to be taking themselves too seriously .
You'll forget it as soon as it's over .	Prominent mobster Vic Luca ( a typically hammy Rip Torn ) sends ultra-creepy and deadly hit man Chris Caleek ( Lance Henriksen ) to take out associate Frank DeSalvo ( Leo Rossi ) , who's been nabbed by federal agents who want him to testify against Luca . The hit man ends up going to the wrong house and kidnapping the son of " ordinary guy " Jack Collins ( Jan-Michael Vincent ) , who sets out to get his son back . Very routine and less than stimulating action / crime thriller with some good stunts and action but not much else . The cast has a couple of familiar faces , but the acting ( especially from Vincent ) , script ( co-written by actor John F . Goff , who plays the prosecutor ) , and direction are mostly uninspired . There is nothing about this movie that stands out or makes it rise above the ordinary . Nothing .
I dare people not to laugh watching this one . . .	It's that bad . A rolling ball of fire that rolls over its victims and reduces them to ashes is on the loose in a lakeside community . Dr . Iane Thorne ( Marvin Howard ) tries to figure out how to stop it . With the exception of some generally agreeable special effects ( by Doug Beswick , whose subsequent works include " The Howling " , " Ghost Busters " , " The Terminator " , and " Aliens " ) , everything about this is pretty shoddy . We have boring characters played by an extremely nondescript cast , an overdone music score by Albert Glasser , a silly screenplay full of silly dialog , and so on . That's not to mention that the whole movie is on the dull side . All of that said , it is enjoyably stupid . It's the kind of ridiculous low , low budget genre fare that has to be seen to be believed . Director Harry Essex has screen writing credits on such classics as " Creature from the Black Lagoon " and " It Came from Outer Space " , and this piece of utter schlock is pretty far removed from those films but fun and amusing in its own moronic way . If you get a kick out of bad B movies , this one's for you . It's probably best viewed with a few friends and a few beers .
No , No , No , Not Again . . .	Standard-issue Cop Vs . Killer movie in which " sensitive " L . A . police detective Danny O'Brien ( Chuck Norris ) is given the nickname " Hero " by the public and media after he singlehandedly catches brutal , gargantuan serial killer Simon Moon ( Jack O'Halloran , who is perfectly cast ) . However , O'Brien feels guilty because he knows he got lucky . . . and he is headed for an inevitable final showdown with Moon ( or " The Terror " , as he is also known ) when the killer escapes . Mostly average , watchable ; Norris is reasonably likable in a change-of-pace role ; the movie is less action and fight-oriented than Norris's other vehicles , so some of his fans may not be satisfied . However , the film is thrown out of whack by some serious pretensions and supposedly poignant moments ( one set in a restaurant , another one suggesting the circle of life ) . Gets better as it goes along , with an okay but unspectacular finale and an acceptable supporting cast . The scene where Moon escapes falls into the " Please Tell Me It's Not That Easy In Real Life " category .
Worth watching for the cast . . .	Incorrigible womanizer Jack Jericho ( Robert Downey , Jr . ) who pursues practically every attractive woman he sees on the street , meets his match in strong-willed Randy Jensen ( Molly Ringwald ) , a museum tour guide with an alcoholic loser father ( Dennis Hopper ) who owes a mobster ( Harvey Keitel ) a LOT of money . You could say that he gets in over his head . Hard to categorize this film as it tries to be both a romantic comedy and a seedy drama . The cast is good enough to keep it watchable , and it moves along well enough . Downey , Jr . and Ringwald are impressive , especially Downey - then again , when has he ever delivered a truly BAD performance ? His talent has never been in doubt . Overall , it's interesting , maybe not quite what I would call a GOOD movie , but I kind of liked it , and it is full of familiar faces . It is also a surprisingly short movie at 82 minutes . The one scene that I thought made no sense was the mugger ( or was he a mugger ? ) who sings like Elvis . What on Earth was the point of that scene ? ? ?
Another product from Boaz Davidson's assembly line .	The Israeli-born producer / writer has been involved with a number of made-to-order B-grade movies - creature features and otherwise - over the last several years . In " Octopus " , a Russian nuclear sub sunken in 1962 has contaminated local cephalopod life and the latest eight-tentacled freak of nature is making life a nightmare for a modern-day sub transporting a prolific terrorist . What I do when watching a film of this kind is to go in with low expectations - I expect that effects will be cheesy , that the writing will be flamboyantly ridiculous , the acting will be less than inspired , and so on . " Octopus " is , like the film " Crocodile " that I reviewed just days ago , very mild escapist fare . It's not exactly a good film , but I don't exactly hate it . I would only hate a film of this kind if it aimed low and failed anyway . At least it wasn't boring . Sexy blonde co-star Carolyn Lowery looks completely out of her depth ( pardon the pun ) as ANY kind of scientist - she's the unlikeliest female scientist I've seen since the days of Denise Richards in " The World Is Not Enough " . The octopus itself is completely unconvincing throughout . I can only hope that if film-makers continue to use animation in their products , that the animation itself will be improved upon as time goes on . It's kind of a low-budget " Deep Rising " , I think . Not as entertaining as that film , or even " It Came From Beneath the Sea " , but it's fairly amusing nonsense nonetheless .
" Can you go further ? "	A killer is out to punish teenagers in the Virginia town of Cherry Falls , only this time it's the virgins who are the endangered species . Not bad but ultimately routine movie is mildly amusing at best and I guess it deserves some points for not taking itself too seriously . It's gory ( gorier than necessary ) , actually fairly suspenseful at times , and it's got a good cast ( some of whom play likable characters ) . As for story twists , it runs hot and cold - there were some revelations that did not surprise me . You could do better and you could do worse .
You haven't got the guts Norman !	Another sequence of events in the post-sanitarium life of Norman Bates , in which he makes the acquaintance of troubled former nun Maureen ( Diana Scarwid ) and sleazy young drifter Duane ( Jeff Fahey ) and is also actively investigated by nosy reporter Tracy ( Roberta Maxwell ) . The most routine " Psycho " movie yet , an average and tolerable horror thriller but nothing more . It gets most of its mileage from the savvy performance of Anthony Perkins , who must have truly understood his tormented character more than ever by this point . Some interesting touches and a not totally unsuccessful attempt at creating suspense ( for the finale ) don't hurt . Of course , there is the obligatory dose of nudity and gory death ( not a lot of it , but some ) to please the 1980's horror audience , making this movie less of a Hitchcock homage than the first sequel and more of a typical modern scare movie . Supporting cast was okay ( a few cast members from " Psycho II " do a reprise of their characters ; I like Hugh Gillin best as Sheriff Hunt ) . " Psycho III " , marking Perkins ' directorial debut , is mainly , I think , for " Psycho " completists . Followed by two TV movies : ' Bates Motel ' ( which I have heard is truly horrible ) in 1987 and ' Psycho IV : The Beginning ' in
" Too Much Raw Dude For You , Babe ? "	Action / comedy in which Clint Eastwood plays Tommy Nowak , a skip tracer who accepts the task of tracking down bail jumper Lou Ann McGuinn ( Bernadette Peters ) . Of course , she's not a real criminal ; she's just been made a patsy by her scummy husband ( Timothy Carhart ) and the greasy psychos he hangs out with . When her baby's life is threatened , Nowak breaks his own rules in order to help her . Slow-moving movie without a lot of energy , it has some laughs and is basically OK , but it's negatively affected by the silly script . Worth it just to see Clint having fun in a change-of-pace role , the always wonderful Peters , and a cast full of familiar character faces . Trivia alert : future comic superstar Jim Carrey is the unorthodox Elvis impersonator , and a certain Canadian rock star has a one-line cameo . Frequent Eastwood co-star Geoffrey Lewis gives the film's most amusing performance as a hippie and creator of fake ID's . SPOILER : I think the ending is especially silly and it doesn't tie up the loose ends either .
The best thing about this film is the presence of Meg Tilly and Hume Cronyn .	Small town girl Jennifer ( Meg Tilly ) returns home with older , doctor boyfriend Stuart ( Tim Matheson ) after her mother has suffered a mysterious , violent breakdown . They are just in time to witness a series of altercations caused by formally well-mannered townsfolk who are now suddenly giving in to their own worst instincts . Mild , slow , quiet mystery-drama which may be too subtle for its own good . What should have been a really disturbing yet compelling little movie doesn't achieve a lot of emotional impact when all is said and done . Matheson and Tilly ( especially Tilly ) are appealing protagonists , and veteran Hume Cronyn is typically solid in support , but this movie is basically routine and forgettable . Genre veteran Graham Baker's ( " Omen III : The Final Conflict " , " Alien Nation " ) direction is more journeyman-like than stylish , and the script by Bart Davis and Don Carlos Dunaway , while not overly convoluted or pretentious , is not particularly distinguished either . While I will no say no more than this , I will also say that the end falls short of being satisfying . " Impulse " is watchable enough but absolutely nothing special .
Precedes the similar " Chopping Mall " by two years .	Okay slasher movie has a familiar plot of sorority pledges being obliged to take part in a stupid prank as an initiation - sneaking into a shopping mall after hours and swiping a security guards ' uniform - but being preyed upon by a vicious killer . Before this even happens - in the second half of the movie - we get a story of a college girl ( gorgeous Daphne Zuniga , in the role that " introduced " her ) plagued by nightmares , and being helped by her kindly - and conveniently hunky - psychology instructor ( James Read ) in dream therapy sessions that may remind viewers of the more mainstream slasher hit , " A Nightmare on Elm Street " . Average of its type ; it's fairly typical stuff , once it gets going : put the victims in peril , then knock them off one at at time . Those of you who like plot twists , and heavy back stories to go with the blood letting , might be amused by what you get here . ( Perhaps in reference to top-billed Vera Miles co-starring in " Psycho " , there's a " Psycho " - like plot development about a third of the way through . ) Gore hounds can take some satisfaction from some very graphic killings . And voyeurs may be pleased by a gratuitous dose of full frontal female nudity . As for the film itself , I consider it passable at best . The curious will note the presence of these very familiar faces ( Clu Gulager of " The Return of the Living Dead " , " A Nightmare on Elm Street Part 2 : Freddy's Revenge " , and " The Hidden " also co-stars ) and may want to check it out for that reason . The mall setting isn't a bad idea but the picture really doesn't deliver in terms of any real scares or suspense . Still , it should more or less satisfy the average slasher fan ; one could do worse than this .
Uninspired but watchable .	Average low-budget genre fare , and a blatant copy of " Alien " , from Roger Cormans ' company Concorde , about a future Earth where a plague has decimated most of mankind . A small group of survivors ekes out a precarious living in an underground lab . One day , they rescue a girl they find on the outside , only to find out that she's pregnant , and it's determined that the fetus has been sired by one of the creatures - referred to as " gargoyles " - now roaming the countryside . They try to abort it , but it escapes ( into the air vents , no less ) and they have to spend the rest of the movie searching for the rapidly growing creature . Providing you aren't too demanding , and like to see as many of these types of movies as you can , you might get some enjoyment out of this flick . Despite the overwhelming feeling of deja vu ( there's even two characters here patterned directly after the Parker and Brett characters in " Alien " ) , it at least moves at a respectable pace , maintains a solemn and serious tone , delivers some enjoyable graphic violence , and has a decent cast led by the ever reliable and likable veteran George Kennedy . It should also be mentioned that the ladies present - Starr Andreeff , Terri Treas ( who played the villainess in another Corman production from the same year , " The Nest " ) , and Yvonne Saa are all quite sexy ( however , some viewers may bemoan the lack of nudity when the ladies present look so good ) . Rick Conrad supplies a nicely spooky music score , but the single most hilariously cheesy aspect is some pretty silly looking monsters that produce laughs instead of shudders . " The Terror Within " ( which got itself a sequel a few years later ) is good for some mild entertainment but no more . It has some okay moments here and there and may do the trick for undiscriminating genre completists .
Watch and truly be appalled !	The breakthrough film for Herschell Gordon Lewis , a crafter of shock / schlock cinema who held nothing back and didn't just imply violence , he showed it in all of its tacky , outrageous , gruesome glory . Mal Arnold is Fuad Ramses , a caterer preparing an Egyptian blood feast to appease his god Ishtar . His secret ingredients are not too hard to figure out . Suffice it to say , he gets right down to business , as does Lewis , diving head first into a scene of depravity right off the bat , as a sexy young lady is brutally mutilated in her own bathtub . The acting is pretty non-existent in this movie that is quite literally a mess : most of it is just plain old laughable , especially when characters are called upon to show grief . I can't remember the last time I saw such incompetent emoting . In the context of this kind of film , however , it just adds to the enjoyment . While this film is of course lacking in any sort of artistic merit , that is entirely the point . And I found it appealing - well , so to speak - on the level of the best / worst indefensible trash . Any viewer not encumbered by squeamishness , or prone to being easily offended , would be advised to check this vanguard splatter flick . I say check it out . You'll be glad you did .
Where have we heard this one before ?	Young boy who could never please his policeman father grows up to be a stone-faced , disturbed young psycho ( Judd Nelson ) who decides to start killing people when his plans to become a cop don't pan out . He is tracked by veteran Hollywood detective ( Robert Loggia ) who is saddled with new partner ( Leo Rossi ) who wants to show the older cop a thing or two about tracking down killers . The script , and the movie in general , are so routine and paint-by-the-numbers as to be laughable . The movie fails to provide a whole lot of entertainment value , but many of the actors ( including Nelson , offering a surprisingly decent performance ) manage to keep it watchable . Rossi is good and it's a shame this guy is rarely seen ( at least these days ) in mainstream movies . Loggia as always is excellent although his character comes off as a bit of a prick at first . And I always like it when I see Meg Foster ( as Rossi's wife ) in an ordinary role , given her tendency to be typecast as villainesses in B-movies . Lots of familiar faces here : George " Buck " Flower , Frank Pesce , Roy Brocksmith , Beau Starr , Ken Lerner , criminal-turned-author Edward Bunker ( as a cop ! ) , Angel Tompkins , et al . F . Y . I . Ken Lerner and Leo Rossi were also in " Hit List " , director William Lustig's previous movie released earlier the same year . They were also featured in scenes added to Lustig's 1988 movie " Maniac Cop " . Lustig himself appears as a cop .
Gods have nothing to fear . . . or do they ?	Two sisters , Jennifer ( Joanna Going ) and Lisa ( Rose McGowan ) arrive in the small mountain town of Snowfield and discover a crisis situation in play : almost everybody has disappeared , and only a few dead bodies have been left behind . They are joined shortly by Sheriff Hammond ( Ben Affleck ) and his two deputies ( Liev Schreiber , Nicky Katt ) but it becomes clear that there's no protection for these people . Meanwhile , a disgruntled scientist , Timothy Flyte ( Peter O'Toole ) , who's forced to write for a tabloid in order to make a living , has come up with a theory as to why mass human disappearances have occurred throughout history . Turns out , Flyte's theory is all too accurate : a mysterious , ageless animal of no determinate shape is living underground and it's time for the beast to come above ground and feed . Peter O'Toole must have been pretty embarrassed - he sure LOOKS uncomfortable . Here's Mr . " Lawrence of Arabia " , reduced to supplying a routine , forgettable monster movie with an effortless touch of class . As a matter of fact , O'Toole sticks out too much - the rest of the cast is all too typical for modern fright films : young , attractive and trendy . McGowan , normally a performer with a bit of an edge , is cast against type here as a vulnerable , frightened teen - she's not bad . Affleck is way too young for his role - he tries hard , and avoids embarrassing himself , but I just can't buy him as a Harvard student turned FBI agent turned small-town sheriff . For God's sake , his deputies are older than he is . Nicky Katt is badly under-utilized in a do-nothing role written specifically for the movie - blink and you'll realize he's already been killed off . Liev Schreiber is a good choice for the role of the creepy deputy Stu Wargle , and he's pretty darn good as usual . " Phantoms " the movie is passable at best , a watchable but predictable and unmemorable horror film with just enough decent shocks and suspense to work in its favor . Scripted by author Dean Koontz , based on his novel - you'll notice this is a much more streamlined , quicker moving story than his book , with entire characters and a whole subplot eliminated completely . Creature effects aren't the most impressive ever seen , but they do have some flair . Highlight is the Schreiber transformation scene at the end - somewhat reminiscent of the memorable effects for " The Thing " . When all is said and done , this is just another 1990's horror film . . . at least I thought so .
Not up to par with other cannibal themed movies .	Jess Francos ' answer to other popular cannibal themed movies of the late ' 70's and early 80's has adventurer Jeremy Taylor ( a top billed Al Cliver , co-star of such Lucio Fulci flicks as " Zombie " and " The Beyond " ) taking his wife and daughter in tow to a jungle location . The wife is gobbled up by the local savages and the daughter abducted . Taylor loses an arm but manages to escape ; years later , he organizes a new expedition to find and bring back his daughter . Only now , she's been treated as a goddess by the cannibals , who of course aren't going to take too kindly to another intrusion of their territory . This just doesn't have the same palpable sense of atmosphere , or danger , as " Cannibal Holocaust " or " Cannibal Ferox " . It's low in the sleaze factor , too , and the scenes of flesh munching go on too long without being particularly shocking . The natives themselves are hardly convincing ; anyone watching can look ( not too closely ) and see that some of them are played by white performers . As a matter of fact , this film marks too much time in general with not much happening . It didn't even have any standout moments that could otherwise recommend it . Cliver is good enough in the lead , with Franco regular Lina Romay in a supporting role and Franco himself in a cameo . Sabrina Siani is a knockout but is clearly not much of an actress . Just barely watchable , this may please undemanding fans of cannibal movies but wouldn't be the one to start with for anyone new to the genre .
" I don't want one word of this leaking out . . . "	A monster spawned by nuclear waste terrorizes a rural Idaho community . A detective ( William Osco ) and a dubious scientist ( Martin Landau , who couldn't possibly have sunk lower than this ) team up to stop it . Rock-bottom creature feature , not just a B movie but , as Leonard Maltin's movie and video guide so succinctly puts it , a Z movie . This would be the kind of movie you'd get together with friends and get drunk to while laughing your behind off . The veteran and esteemed performers in this fiasco ( Landau , Jose Ferrer , Dorothy Malone , Ruth Buzzi ) must have been embarrassed beyond belief , but then , those paychecks have to keep coming in , right ? They should have played this with more sarcasm and irony , but unfortunately make the mistake of taking themselves seriously . Too bad . Former porno movie maker William Osco , married to writer / director Jackie Kong at the time this was made , co-stars as the heroic detective Mortimer Lutz using the pseudonym " Rexx Coltrane " . As you can see , he's not really an actor , but does that really matter in a pile of junk like this ? It just adds to the ineptitude and enjoyment ! ( By the way , Osco goes through so much punishment while fighting the creature at the end , you'd think he and Kong were having a fight while they were making this ! ) The monster itself is pathetic . . . very pathetic . Instead of screaming when one sees it , you may be busting a gut laughing . Roxanne Cybelle Osco , presumably the offspring of the film-makers , is the cute little tyke who gets too close to the beast at one point . Other Jackie Kong misfires of the 1980's include " Night Patrol " , " Blood Diner " , and " The Underachievers " . Since it's so crummy that it's fun , it gets from me .
Guilty Pleasure !	Based on a memorable 1970s TV series . Three sexy female detectives ( Cameron Diaz , Lucy Liu , Drew Barrymore ) work for an unseen boss ( voice of John Forsythe ) and are assigned to retrieve a kidnapped software expert ( Sam Rockwell ) who was presumably taken by a competitor ( Tim Curry ) . Before long , these ladies are battling a variety of bad guys while periodically contending with their boyfriends . Hey , you could do worse than this . The whole thing is silly , really silly ( you could even say empty-headed ) but harmless . Martial arts scenes are the best . In any event , it would be pretty hard to resist those three dynamic actresses in the leads . Notable for its casting of Crispin Glover as a nasty bad guy . He's usually playing creepy weirdos , but this character is a little different in that he's truly menacing . The only sour note is Tom Green , whose scenes as Barrymore's friend don't work . It wouldn't be so bad if his character didn't refer to himself as " THE Chad " . At least Matt LeBlanc and Luke Wilson are funny as the love interests of Liu and Diaz ( respectively . ) I'll give it .
Not easy to categorize , this film .	A film crew sets up shop in an abandoned high school where horrific murders ( is there any other kind of murder in the horror genre ? ) once took place . Well , wouldn't you know it , they start dropping like flies . . . Well , I'm sure other people have said it before me , but any film that kills off George Clooney within the first thirteen minutes bears some looking into . ( I'm not sure that qualifies as a spoiler , his is not even a major character , and he was a newcomer to film back then . ) It doesn't quite seem to be a parody , but more of a tongue-in-cheek horror movie ( I think the more recent film " Cherry Falls " would also fall into this small category ) . Reasonably entertaining but no ball of fire , film has appealing leads ( Brendan Hughes , Lori Lethin ) and funny supporting performances by Alex Rocco ( probably the best performance in the film ) as the sleazoid producer and Scott Jacoby as the pretentious director . There's also the prospect of seeing some one-time TV stars in cameos : Maureen McCormick as a police officer who is turned on by gore , and Vince Edwards as a teacher . All in all , not bad .
Man's best friend turns around and bites the hand that feeds . . .	More silly low-budget nonsense to be added to the " nature strikes back " subgenre of thrillers and horror movies to be made in the 1970's . In California , neighborhood dogs suddenly start running together and turning vicious . As university professors Harlan Thompson ( ' The Man from U . N . C . L . E . ' s David McCallum ) and Michael Fitzgerald ( veteran comedy actor George Wyner , in an early career dramatic turn ) try to figure out the cause and see what they can do to stop the rampage . I didn't like this as much as I was hoping to . At first , the film is slow and talky , with simply too much exposition going on . And the first few dog attacks are shot in so much darkness it's hard to get too worked up . As the film progresses , it gets a bit better , and the climax , where the dogs lay siege to some unfortunate college students while Thompson and his love interest Caroline ( Sandra McCabe ) experience a similar situation in her own house , things definitely perk up , with some nicely choreographed mayhem . ( Things sure get bloody in this movie in the end ! ) However , the movie doesn't altogether work because the dogs themselves aren't scary enough . All I wanted to do was play with them ! The film is ultimately kind of laughable because the film-makers take themselves too seriously , and I didn't take the film all that seriously . It might have been nice had the film been more exploitative ( the one shower scene , fulfilled by a pre-'Dallas ' Linda Gray is handled in rather a tame fashion before she gets torn to pieces ) ; it is schlock , after all , and it would have been nice for the film to have been more livelier throughout . I'd also like to mention the music , for it's melodramatic enough to make one think that this is a more affecting movie than it really is . In any event , it has an interestingly downbeat , inconclusive ending that leads to a hilarious final freeze frame that just beats it all . I sort of like this film , anyway , but in the end it's more good for laughs than scares . However , anyone who's ever been scared or menaced or attacked by a dog just might find this as uncomfortable as intended .
Moderately entertaining at best .	Sean Patrick Flanery plays Jake , a half-human / half-demon dude who works for the church by destroying all those demons who walk the Earth . Veteran movie villain Billy Drago is his nemesis , the demon of lust Asmodeus , an oily , seductive , lisping creep . It did begin with an unusual touch : seeing a victim of possession get the stuffing kicked out of her when efforts to exorcise her in the traditional way prove futile . Ultimately , I think that this B-level schlock-fest gives in to mediocrity , although that's certainly not the fault of Flanery or Drago , who make for amusing adversaries . It's basically a combination of horror - yet another in the long line of horror movies to draw inspiration from religion - and action , with a fair number of competent if uninspired fight scenes . It's not lacking in energy , thankfully , and is over pretty quickly . It also has a high sex quotient , and the woman here ( Colleen Porch , Tania Deighton , Nancy Yoon ) are admittedly very easy on the eyes . Overall , this little picture was a little too disposable for me , although I did at least enjoy the alternative hard-rock soundtrack .
Disappointing .	Underwhelming B horror about a particularly vicious werewolf pursuing cutie pie waitress Josie ( Samaire Armstrong ) because it needs to mate with her . Hunky detective Steve Turley ( Ryan Alosio ) , who actually works the werewolf beat if you can believe that , vows to protect her . To start with , this movies ' attempt to build a mythology behind its plot just comes off as lame and oh-so-cheesy . The dialog is full of groan-inducing lines and the acting from the attractive young cast is just about what one could expect . Producer / director Richard Friedman goes for a real razzle-dazzle approach ( at least the movie's got some energy going for it ) , with a full-steam-ahead pace . The problem there is that too often it goes with the choppy style of editing common to so many modern movies , rendering some scenes a little incoherent . The real marvel of it is wondering what could have possessed veteran actress ' Tippi ' Hedren to appear in this ; it also makes an appalling waste of the cool Steven Williams , who's bumped off after the first few minutes . In any event , on to some good stuff : there may be enough gore here to satisfy those who crave it . Kane Hodder has a sizable role as the biker dude who is the human incarnation of the werewolf ( anyone who's ever wanted to see the guy in the buff will get their wish ! ) , and as always he has just the right amount of intimidating physical presence . But what most happily heterosexual guys will delight in most is the proliferation of nudity . One erotic scene in particular stands out ; it's protracted and certainly doesn't move the movie forward at all , but , really , who's going to complain ? And the werewolf is genuinely ugly and nasty and formidable . Too bad the excessive CGI distracts from the effect . It is what it is , and as cheesy B horror goes , it's really not all that bad . It just ain't very good either .
Poor , poor Melanie . . .	Second " sequel " to the " Amityville " horror movies is closer to being a good movie than the putrid first movie . Overall , I'd say it's quite average . Tony Roberts plays an investigative journalist , a born cynic who has no absolutely no belief in the supernatural . So much so , that he has no qualms about buying the dreaded Amityville house , despite its lurid history . He's just happy to find a place that's so cheap . Well , before you can say " haunted house " , people who have been in contact with the house start dying horribly . I feel awful for Candy Clark's character Melanie - what a nasty end to have to come to ! Ultimately , the salvation for Roberts and his family comes in the form of a group of paranormal researchers , led by Robert Joy's character . They set up shop in the house and prepare for a showdown - which isn't long in coming . Thankfully , these film-makers seem to have more respect for their material than those responsible for the first movie ( boy , that does movie suck ! ) . This is atmospheric and entertaining , with decent effects ( of course , the video isn't in 3-D , so the major hook of this particular movie is lost ) . All in all , it's about average , so I give it .
" Anything Can Happen On A Snow Day . "	Formulaic , predictable comedy for kids ( A Nickelodeon production ) about the members of the Brandston family , and their adventures on a snow day , particularly the teenage son ( Mark Webber ) , who's determined to impress the girl with whom he's infatuated , and the kid sister ( Zena Grey ) , who's equally determined to outsmart the snowplow driver ( Chris Elliott ) that works their neighborhood . Harmless , reasonable fun : I don't presume to know what kids find entertaining in movies nowadays , but this seems like acceptable entertainment . . . although I'm sure this will hit some kids where they live . The villainous " Snowplowman " , as he is called by the kids , seems like a fairly typical kid's movie bad guy - disgusting without being overtly threatening . Remember the stupid criminals played by Daniel Stern and Joe Pesci in the first two " Home Alone " movies ? THEY were too stupid to be scary or threatening . They were basically cartoons - and I think " Snowplowman " is like that , too . I liked it myself and I'll vote to give it .
Why Couldn't It Have Been Better ?	Inspired by a true story , and officially based on a magazine article , this movie makes the usual move of changing characters and events for the purpose of dramatic license . In the once glorious and now decrepit community of Long Beach , young junkie Joey LaMarca ( James Franco ) kills a dealer in the act of self-defense . His long-estranged father Vincent ( Robert DeNiro ) , who's a police detective , comes back into his life after walking out on him and his mother ( Patti LuPone ) years earlier . What seems like good material - sad and poignant and bitter , it charts the endless cycle of misery affecting each new generation of LaMarca men - is used to make a movie that somehow ends up unmemorable and not as moving as it ought to be . The cast is good , although DeNiro towers over all of them with a typically strong performance . This is another one of those cases where the skills of the film-makers and cast can only carry the picture so far . An OK but uneventful drama with some questions left unanswered at the end . There is an unfortunate disclaimer at the end of the closing credits - those scenes set in Long Beach were not even filmed there - where were they filmed , then ?
Not bad .	Landlocked version - some may rip-off - of " Jaws " as three heroes ( Christopher George , Andrew Prine , Richard Jaeckel ) unite to find and eliminate an enormous , ferocious grizzly bear that has been slaughtering and eating mostly female victims . Although pretty routine , I didn't hate it . It may pale next to " Jaws " , but it's a passable example of " nature-run-amok " thrillers . I mean , at least it wasn't boring . The acting and the music score were decent . I have watched 90-minute long movies that were worse wastes of my time . Kudos , anyway , to the actual bear used in the attack scenes ; he was very convincing . The kills are pretty gruesome . Speaking of " Jaws " , the most interesting bit of trivia from my standpoint is that the actress who played the memorable first victim in that other movie is also playing a victim in THIS movie .
100 % pure junk , but good for some chuckles .	An extremely goofy sci-fi / horror / comedy , " TerrorVision " is another entry in the long line of low-budget genre pictures that veteran producer / director Charles Band has been involved with since the 1970's . On an alien planet , a mutated monster - looking like a cross between a bulldog and toad with huge googly eyes - is disposed of as if it were garbage . However , it's yanked down to Earth courtesy of a satellite dish owned by the idiot family the Puttermans . Dad ( Gerrit Graham ) and Mom ( Mary Woronov ) are swingers ( this is a good joke considering the role that Woronov played in 1982's " Eating Raoul " ) , son Sherman ( Chad Allen ) is a kid with an overactive imagination , daughter Suzie ( 1980's hottie Diane Franklin , unrecognizable in punk rock garb ) is a wild child with a heavy metal dude boyfriend ( Jonathan Gries ) , and grandpa ( Bert Remsen ) is a military-minded old man with a hankering for lizard tails . The monster proceeds to feast on a hearty meal of really dumb humans . I'll confess to being somewhat amused by this deliberately silly serving of cheese . Subtle it ain't . Obviously a sort of tribute to so-bad-it's-good genre fare ( like " The Giant Claw " and " Robot Monster " , seen playing on TV ) of the past , it's very much in-your-face and out of control . The acting is downright ridiculous ; Graham , Remsen , and Alejandro Rey really ham it up big time . The effects are quite crude but nevertheless entertaining ; the movie at least does not skimp on the slime . There's even a dopey 1980's style pop theme song ! I didn't care for the extended sequence where three of the characters try to educate / domesticate the creature , or the not-so-hot ending , and the movie really can't help but eventually become just too stupid . Provided that you can derive some satisfaction out of cheap and cheesy B movies , you might be able to laugh at " TerrorVision " . I won't guarantee it , but it's not completely without a certain sorry charm .
Deliciously disgusting . A true pleasure .	Directed by Juan Piquer Simon of " Pieces " infamy , this shameless splatterfest features an onslaught of the title creatures , turned into aggressive mutants through the effects of toxic waste . One chump victim after another is devoured while heroic Mike Brady ( Michael Garfield ) races to stop the infestation . This is simply one of those films that does the trick in spite of itself . It ain't exactly good , but it's positively entertaining . How can one not love an in-your-face amalgam of gory set pieces , the highlight of which is a restaurant scene ? It's a junk picture , and a very spirited one at that . Don't go into it looking for imaginative writing ( it's particularly clichéd stuff ) , award-winning acting ( everyone here is dull - and surprise , surprise , poorly dubbed ) , or any such thing . All things considered , it moves at a rapid clip and maintains the level of fun throughout . The fact that everyone looks so serious just makes it better . It's an absolute silly blast of a film . Any film with a line as hilariously bad as " You don't have the authority in this town to declare Happy Birthday ! " automatically rates it as first-rate cheese for me .
My first Ray Dennis Steckler experience .	A notorious effort from film-maker Ray Dennis Steckler thanks in no small part to that elongated title , this is one truly bizarre movie . Brett O'Hara plays a nasty gypsy fortune teller named Madame Estrella , an acid-wielding crone with an ugly hunchback associate named Ortega ( Don Russell ) . She sets her sights on unambitious schmuck Jerry ( Steckler himself , acting under the pseudonym Cash Flagg ) , turning him into an unwitting killer with the use of her all-powerful spinning wheel . Jerry's best pal and girlfriend become concerned about his behavior , and try to save him . Made for a mere $38 , 000 , this movie shows that Steckler at least had a penchant for showmanship . Like other low-budget film-makers , it can be said that his ambition outweighed his talent , but he really conveys an endearing " let's put on a show " attitude . He combines lurid and sleazy atmosphere ( assisted by such future cinematography greats as Laszlo Kovacs and Vilmos Zsigmond ) with not-so-hot acting , some surreal touches , and frequent musical numbers . His rather crazed little world suggests a feeling that anything can happen , and all a viewer can do is sit back and be amused . He even provides a big showcase for wife Carolyn Brandt as a drunken exotic dancer . It's the kind of thing that curious folk ought to see at least once . It may move slowly , but it's trippy enough , schlocky enough , and silly enough to be of interest for cult movie fans .
Cheesy and bad but amusing .	Another movie of the 1980's to jump on the " Gremlins " bandwagon , this tells the story of Jonathan ( Peter Liapis ) , who inherits the mansion his Satan-worshipping father Malcolm ( rock singer Michael Des Barres ) conducted rituals in . Jonathan's curiosity gets the better of him and when he starts conducting rituals of his own , a variety of tiny beasts and a pair of dwarves arrive on the scene . " Ghoulies " is not exactly a quality horror / comedy , but it didn't suck badly enough for me to actively hate it . In fact , I thought that it was goofy enough to be amusing . The title creatures are a funny ( if undeniably ugly ) troupe of poorly manipulated puppets and unlike other films of its kind , " Ghoulies " does not go overboard in the gore department . Heck , the lead performances by Liapis and Lisa Pelikan , as his girlfriend , are actually better than I would have expected , and Des Barres ' cameo is enjoyably ( and not unbearably ) hammy . It's also good to see Jack " Eraserhead " Nance in the film's other major cameo . As long as you go in with low expectations , and do NOT take it seriously ( then again , how could you ? ) it's possible to derive some entertainment out of it . Followed by three sequels .
The best day to watch this : not Christmas Day , but garbage day .	So-dumb-it's-fun type sequel to the infamous slasher flick of 1984 , this movie has Ricky Caldwell ( Eric Freeman ) picking up where his brother Billy left off . The film opens as a psychologist ( James L . Newman ) is analyzing Ricky , who's been on the path to madness ever since the conclusion of the original film . It becomes clear that the only way to really enjoy this is to just revel in its stupidity . In the style of Roger Corman-type film-making , where sets , special effects , and sequences can be used ad nauseum to save as much money as possible , debuting co-writer / director / editor Lee Harry utilizes as much footage from the first film as he possibly can , justifying it by having Ricky recite his back story to the shrink . Freeman is one of the silliest , goofiest , funniest slasher villains I've ever seen ; just watch as he laughs his way through all of his murders . His acting is priceless . I can't say much of the supporting cast ( naturally ) ; Lilyan Chauvin is conspicuously absent as the Mother Superior , played this time by an actress named Jean Miller . There's just so much here to chuckle at ; one of the most brilliantly bad moves is to use footage from the first SNDN for the movie that Ricky and Jennifer watch in the theater . Now that's being frugal . Then again , I always enjoy it when film-makers realize the silliness of their product and just have fun with it . Recommended to lovers of bad-good films everywhere .
Hug me !	An accident at a nuclear plant results in a cloud that engulfs a school bus with six singing children on it . Naturally , the kids turn into shambling zombie-like things with black fingernails . Furthermore , all they want to do now is hug people , but their touch is deadly , as they cause the idiots being hugged to burn to death . Bumbling local sheriff Billy Hart ( Gil Rogers ) teams up with frantic parent John Freemont ( Martin Shakar ) to go after the killer kids . It's passable enough fare for those with a weakness or fondness for low-budget horror schlock . It's crude and it's raw , but it has its moments . The makeup effects are particularly low-grade , the cinematography ( by " Friday the 13th " DP Barry Abrams ) pretty good , the climax somewhat suspenseful , the music by Harry Manfredini a virtual replica of everything he ever composed for the " Friday the 13th " series , and the acting absolutely nothing special . Note that these local parents are useless people , and the same goes for the local law enforcement . The characters by and large are uninteresting to the point where a viewer will most likely be rooting for the children to get them all . The method of dispatching them is a hilarious , silly twist on the tried-and-true method of dispatching zombies , and the supposedly chilling ending is not too hard to see coming . Co-written and produced by Carlton J . Albright , who enlisted his own children to play two of the monstrous tykes . Familiar faces such as Rita Montone ( the hooker in " Maniac " ) and Peter Maloney ( Bennings in " The Thing " ) can be seen in small roles . Fairly entertaining for what it is , it ain't all bad but it's close enough . At least , on that level , it's a good enough time .
And we thought the tryptophan in turkey was bad . . .	In this certified cult favorite , Steve Hawkes is Herschell , a morally upright Elvis-like biker . He hooks up with a nice , religious girl named Angel , and subsequently her " bad girl " sister Ann , who proceeds to get him hooked on pot . Next he goes to work at a turkey farm , where he agrees to be the guinea pig for an experiment in which he eats turkey injected with some sort of drug . The result of all of this is a man with a papier mache turkey head that proceeds to cut up various drug addicts and drink their blood . My only problem here is that I wish this could have been a little livelier . But with such an outrageous premise , it still kept me watching out of sheer fascination . Especially since it's all played so straight . A movie proclaiming itself as the " only turkey monster anti-drug pro-Jesus gore movie " and proceeding to hammer home a message in the context of a monumentally silly monster romp has to be seen to be believed . It has touches - co-director Brad Grinter frequently pops up on screen to wax philosophical about the subject matter and the nature of " catalysts " - and scenes - a drug pusher gets his leg sawed off - guaranteed to give curious viewers a thoroughly offbeat experience . The acting is , quite simply , hilariously awful . I can't remember the last time bad acting was this funny . The lines these characters spout are deliciously absurd ( such as Ann worrying about having children that would look like their father ) . One hysterical moment for me came when Grinter starts hacking for quite a while before he can resume with his dialog . A one-of-a-kind oddity that's staggeringly inept in its own crazily endearing way , " Blood Freak " is something the adventurous won't be likely to easily forget . Warning to animal lovers : a real turkey decapitation is captured on screen .
IT'S A BOY . . . HA HA HA HA !	Freddy Krueger returns once again , this time through the dreams of Alice's ( Lisa Wilcox ) unborn child . This way he is able to dispatch her new gang of friends . He also happens to have big ambitions regarding the developing fetus . Fifth " Nightmare " movie is hurt by the fact that it's hard to be terrified or intrigued anymore by Freddy's antics . The series had become thoroughly routine by this point , and not even a plethora of great visual & makeup effects and visual design can lift it above average . Robert Englund once again plays Freddy as if it were a role written just for him but he's the only actor here who's really worth watching . The rest of the cast is , for the most part , just boring ( it's definitely kind of hard to feel anything for this newest crop of victims ) . In any event , Freddy does manage to be more menacing here than in Part Four , although his dialog still contains lots of one-liners . Unfortunately , the movie's more plot-heavy , non-Freddy moments help to slow it down . ( That's saying something , considering it's only an hour and a half long . ) As in Part Two , Englund has a very small , non-Freddy role , but considering how recognizable the actor is , you should be able to spot him right away . One good thing : we get more details of the Freddy Krueger story , particularly as it pertains to his mother Amanda , a nun who worked at an asylum ( we already heard this story briefly in Part Three , so at least there's some continuity there ) .
Don't go out in the woods tonight , you probably will be killed . . .	That's a sample of lyrics from the end credits song from this impossibly bizarre entry in the slasher craze . There's not much you need to know about this film except that it follows the expected formula : a quartet of campers , as well as assorted other victims , falls prey to a gargantuan forest dweller who growls like a pirate . I hear that writer / director James Bryan has quite a sense of humor , but how much of the laughs derived from watching " Don't Go in the Woods " are intentional and which are not could certainly be open to debate . In any event , this is one incredibly weird movie . Badly acted , badly written , yet beautifully shot , at least this film delivers grand dollops of juicy , over-the-top gore . So if you're a gore hound , you've got at least one reason to watch it . It's a short and not exactly sweet film that certainly hits the ground running . No preamble here , as victims start falling like trees within the first few minutes . This review would be not be complete without a comment on one of the dumbest music / sound scores that I've ever heard . It's kind of the crowning touch on such a festival of silliness . It's kind of two films rolled into one ; first , the killing spree , and second , the efforts of the local cops to find the killer . So I give it a point there for a rare instance in a slasher where there was a strong police presence . I have to admit , it is kind of a hoot of a movie , enjoyable on a " W . T . F . ? " level ; I did have to marvel at the lameness of it all . Recommended for the slasher fan who isn't very demanding . . . at all .
So-so .	Drill sergeant Leona Hawkins ( Nichelle Nichols , a . k . a . " Lt . Uhura " of the original ' Star Trek ' ) leads her young troops on maneuvers in a Southern forest , only to be confronted by otherworldly spirits that are leftovers from the Civil War . A largely nondescript cast , a decent music score , serviceable creature effects , and a valiant attempt by director Armand Mastroianni ( " He Knows You're Alone " ) and his production designer-cinematographer team to create as much atmosphere as they possibly could ( they were probably working against a very low budget ) add up to an okay but forgettable ghost story . It might be worth checking out just to see Nichols and another future ' Star Trek ' universe performer - LeVar Burton , a . k . a . " Geordi LaForge " - in the same film . Nichols , Burton , and Talia Balsam do what they can , but I found top-billed Maxwell Caulfield to be a little underwhelming . Some of the actors are stuck in worthless , predictable roles . Features a guy named Robert V . Barron , a real Abraham Lincoln look-alike , in the not-bad opening sequence , and Barron actually went on to play Lincoln in " Bill & Ted's Excellent Adventure " .
" There's something wrong with this town " = DUH ! ! !	Young couple Burt ( Peter Horton ) and Vicky ( Linda Hamilton ) traveling the back roads of Nebraska run afoul of a cult of psychotic young brats who have murdered all the adults of a small town and taken over . They worship a mysterious deity named " He Who Walks Among The Rows " . With the help of two rebellious children ( Robby Kiger and AnneMarie McEvoy ) , Burt sets out to rectify the situation . Passable horror genre entertainment is paced well enough , and despite a lack of authentic QUALITY , I actually liked it to a degree . Burt , unfortunately , is the kind of stubborn bozo that is all too typically found in films like this . Vicky is a little more likable . I was a little interested in the power struggle between the cult's two primary leaders , the annoying jerk Isaac ( John Franklin ) and the thuggish Malachai ( Courtney Gains ) . The Stephen King short story this is based on is not among his best but it's reasonably creepy and compelling . I think something might have been lost in the transition from book to screen , because this film makes little to no impact when all is said and done . After the climax in the cornfields , there is a rather foolish ending that I could have done without . Perhaps most noteworthy about this film was its legacy : a mind-boggling SIX sequels , none of which were necessary ( I have absolutely no inclination to seek any of them out ) .
" Would You Mind Not Shooting At The Thermonuclear Weapons ? "	Vic Deakins ( John Travolta ) is a VERY disgruntled fighter pilot who deliberately crashes his plane in the Utah desert with plans to steal its nuclear warheads and ransom them off . However , he doesn't realize what a formidable opponent his younger co-pilot ( Christian Slater ) will turn out to be . . . and doesn't anticipate the help that Riley Hale ( Slater ) will receive from a female park ranger ( Samantha Mathis ) . Most of the time , a phenomenally silly and goofy action movie that has expertly staged action scenes ( the director is John Woo , what do you expect ? ) but absolutely nothing to stimulate the intellect . I think this would be acceptable entertainment for action fans but not many others . By the way , I think Travolta's bad guy is too dopey to be threatening . Film also marks the acting debut of football player-turned commentator Howie Long . He's acceptable ( and his Radio Shack commercials with Teri Hatcher are indeed funny ) but he shouldn't give up his day job . I give it .
The President lives . . . and the movie stinks .	Astronaut Ivan Hood ( genre icon Bruce Campbell ) and his team return to Earth after a forty-year space mission to find that goofy alien termites have enslaved the human population ( making this a low , low , low rent variation on " Planet of the Apes " ) , with the assistance of various human thugs . Hood escapes from their clutches and rallies the folks in the area to fight back . I've heard enough about Sci-Fi channel movies to know what to expect going in , so I was prepared for a silly , laughable onslaught of cheese . But I would be inclined to agree that in this case it was definitely intentional . These people knew what kind of film they were making here and just had fun with it . And I'll be honest - the film has its moments - human heads gobbled up by the termites ( accompanied by a burst of CGI splatter ) , the termites themselves spraying green goop everywhere when they get killed - and it's ridiculous enough to generate some decent ( if not hearty ) laughs . A lot of the " acting " is pretty bad , too , although it's not like I would have expected anything more . Co-star Renee O'Connor is rather underwhelming as the love interest , excellent veteran character actor Peter Jason is wasted in a too-small part , and it's up to Campbell himself ( playing the material more straight than you'd think ) to give it a little bit of life . Filmed in attractive forest locations in Bulgaria , it's a mindlessly diverting romp made for the bad sci-fi lover and Bruce Campbell fan in many of us .
You might as well read a book instead .	Luke Sinclair ( Chris Sarandon ) is a novelist who specializes in serial killer stories ; despite his uncanny knack for getting into the heads of these degenerates , he claims he does no research ; he simply is good at seeing things from their point of view . Luke , suffering from a bad case of writer's block , retreats to rural Maine ( this film was actually shot in the Canadian province of New Brunswick , which is certainly close enough to Maine geographically ) . Instantaneously , a series of sex-related murders occur that seem to be patterned after the kills in " Reaper " , a previous Sinclair novel . Sexy state detective Catherine Mary Stewart and local sheriff Vlasta Vrana represent the law in this story that trods on awfully familiar thriller turf . I wouldn't consider it inept - it's made well enough - but it just seems too routine to work overall . The actors are good - veteran character actor Vrana gets a rare featured role here - but their roles are absolutely nothing special . All revelations made here are not exactly earth-shattering ; there's an obvious red herring and there's not a single story twist here that no-one could see coming . Just another paint-by-the-numbers B-grade thriller ; it might serve its purpose for less demanding viewers but if you want something original look elsewhere .
Whatever you do , don't call her " babe " .	Barbara Kopetski a . k . a . " Barb Wire " ( Pamela Anderson Lee ) is a bounty hunter / mercenary / nightclub owner in the only free city in an America of the future that has been ravaged by a second civil war . Her former lover Axel ( Temuera Morrison ) asks for her help in getting his new wife , resistance fighter Cora D ( Victoria Rowell ) out of the country . Competently made if very forgettable movie that definitely reveals its comic book origins . Decent action scenes , explosions , a few good supporting actors , and impressive production design / art direction / set decoration . At least the film-makers cared enough to make it LOOK good . It's an incredibly trashy and sleazy movie that could easily have been just direct-to-video stuff but I thought that it was passable . It would have been better , though , if the plot weren't such a blatant ripoff of " Casablanca " ! The villains of the story , referred to as " congressionals " , even dress like Nazis . The star certainly qualifies as an instant attraction for the young males watching , although calling her an actress would admittedly be a stretch .
Five Out Of Ten .	Owen Wilson plays Chris Burnett , a Navy navigator whose plane is shot down over Bosnia when he and his pilot ( Gabriel Macht ) veer off course while on a recon mission . Burnett's superior ( Gene Hackman ) spends the rest of the movie trying to figure out how to rescue him even though it's not in his best interests to do so . Meanwhile , Burnett is being pursued by murderous Serbs while he attempts to reach a safe pickup point . The film-makers try a couple of gimmicks to get you hooked : speeded-up action , slowed-down action , freeze frames , and quick cuts , but it's not altogether successful . Despite their attempts to deliver non-stop excitement , this doesn't add up to anything special for me . I also think there are some continuity problems as well as problems with the characters as written ( don't these men act just a little too emotional for a group of military men ? ) . At least it's not boring , though . I give it , which I think is reasonable for a movie that's at least an average representation of its genre .
I've got a new game , sport . . . it's called " come up with a better script " .	If it weren't for the misguided people at the Play Pals company , the events of parts 2 and 3 wouldn't have taken place . This time , eight years after the showdown in the Play Pals factory where Andy and Kyle reduced Chucky to a molten mess , those fatally ignorant execs are confident that all the bad publicity is over , and that Andy has been forgotten . The " Good Guy " doll is put back into production , and - Oh my God what a surprise - Chucky is the first doll off the assembly line . He tracks down the now-teenaged Andy ( Justin Whalin ) to a military school where he switches focus and becomes determined to put his soul inside the body of a new young chump ( Jeremy Sylvers ) . So this time , Andy's role is not that of the victim , but the hero , as he works to foil Chucky's plans . Unlike the first two movies , this suffers from being a very routine - as well as annoyingly contrived and illogical - horror sequel . Chucky's still enough of a profane , nasty motormouth to qualify as a bona fide horror anti-hero , but these characters really aren't worth caring about this time . What's more , there are stupid characters who clearly don't die soon enough . It's not quite as mean-spirited as " Child's Play " 1 and 2 , but that's not saying much . The direction and film-making are competent enough ( I guess ) but lack style . The bottom line is , if you enjoy senseless murders and tons of profanity , this film may do it for you , but it's a far cry from being a REAL horror film . The scene where Chucky terrorizes Play Pals head honcho Sullivan ( Peter Haskell ) is reminiscent of the first night in the apartment in the first movie - it comes closest to generating real suspense . HOW ON EARTH did Chucky manage to mail himself to the military academy ? That's the stupidest thing in " Child's Play 3 " .
Do you think Billy Bob Thornton regrets doing this film ?	" Chopper Chicks in Zombietown " is a certifiable cult comedy , a lively but incredibly silly affair . Small-town mortician Ralph Willum ( Don Calfa ) is killing people and then re-animating their corpses so that they may become unwilling mine workers ; his plans are spoiled by the arrival in town of a grungy clique of female bikers . I'm well aware that I shouldn't take this seriously - I mean , how can you ? Performances and dialog are just plain off-the-wall , gore is plentiful , and hard rock score fairly decent . The spectacle of seeing an odd collection of performers - this includes Martha Quinn as well as Billy Bob - gets some points , and it's energetic enough to provide some entertainment . But that won't change the fact that this will be likely to appeal to very few people . It's kind of hard to rate a film that was obviously intentioned to be stupid and outrageous . It's kind of a bad film but almost works on a so-bad-it's-good level .
I guess animators are still incapable of creating realistic looking snakes !	And for all I know , they never will be ! Highly derivative sequel ( or follow-up ) to the original 1997 " Giant Animated Snake Eats A Lot Of Stupid People " movie in which a team of scientists & corporate types and their intrepid guides journey to Borneo ( the movie was actually shot in Fiji ) to seek a precious and rare flower that can prolong life . On the debit side : unoriginal characters , special effects that do not improve upon those in the original , and a routine , painfully predictable , by-the-numbers , idiotic script . On the credit side : competent-enough film-maker Dwight H . Little ( he made the reasonably good fourth " Halloween " movie , for one example ) does what he can , and the movie moves well enough . In fact , he manages to make it entertaining ( more so in the later portions of the movie ) despite its flaws . Also , as could be expected , the exotic locales are at least pleasantly photographed . Overall , " Anacondas : The Hunt for the Blood Orchid " is nothing special but at least I got some entertainment out of it . God knows I've seen worse . Some of the actors in this - but not all - really deserve better .
Have you heard the one about . . . ?	Killer does away with the standard assortment of self-absorbed , conveniently attractive college students in the style of infamous urban legends . Despite its interesting gimmick , this is a rather routine horror movie with not a lot going for it . For the most part , the problem is with the script , which has some definite holes in it . It's mean-spirited as well , with yet another canine companion thrown into the mix just so it can get slaughtered later . Cast is , well , decent if not spectacular , with the camera-friendly young stars supported by a few familiar veterans , including horror veterans Robert " Freddy Krueger " Englund ( as a professor ) and Brad Dourif ( as a stuttering gas station proprietor ) . Bottom line is , it's neither the best nor the worst youth-oriented horror movie made in the wake of " Scream " .
Neither Chuck's best nor his worst .	Middling Chuck Norris starring vehicle - one of his first - in which the legendary karate champion plays a former commando who finds out that he's landed on a CIA hit list and does his own sleuthing - along with cagey mystery woman Margaret ( an appealing Anne Archer ) - as to who is responsible . The martial arts don't play a big part in this film . Of course , there are some obligatory fight scenes that require Chuck to utilize his formidable skills , but this is mostly light on action . It's a twisty , plot-heavy political conspiracy thriller , and it's watchable enough , but it's not overly stimulating . Some veteran actors fill key supporting roles , including James Franciscus , Lloyd Haynes , Jim Backus ( in a special guest appearance ) , and Dana Andrews , who gives what is probably this film's best performance . In general , I more or less liked this film . I don't think I would recommend it , but if you're a Norris fan I can tell you that he's certainly done worse than this .
Darn that company and their useless Canadian electricity . . . ( I can't remember the exact quote )	First off , I purchased this film because it was listed in a book created by Fangoria magazine that was dedicated to unknown , forgotten , and under-rated genre films . I saw it just this week in a bargain bin . I figured , what the heck , I'll pick it up , I won't be losing much , right ? Just a few bucks . Ultimately , the movie stumbles because it seems to exist for no other reason than to give an accomplished , veteran digital effects artist the chance to really indulge himself . That man is Jamie Dixon , here making his directorial debut . The film is based on what is probably one of Dracula creator Bram Stokers ' less popular stories . The title being is a sort of demon , conjured up by a stereotypical sect of renegade , darkness-embracing priests . The demon , who looks like a very poor imitation of Darth Vader with a VERY cheesy mask , speaks like The Djinn ( i . e . the villain of the " Wishmaster " series ) and is never remotely scary . The demon claims various unlucky morons in a small upstate New York town ( however , as it most often seems to be the case for these B-grade genre movies , the film was shot in Canada ) while on his way to snatching himself a supposedly " pure " child ( an early film credit for Kevin Zegers , whose other genre credits include " Wrong Turn " and the " Dawn of the Dead " remake ) for the purposes of vanquishing mankind . The actors are okay - they ARE professionals , after all - but don't really give this material better performances than it deserves . The exception to this , of course , is Tony Todd , who seems to be having fun playing the local recluse / nut job . Michael Rooker's character , a gun-toting priest who is afraid of the darkness in his own heart , is mildly interesting but it's not as if I've never seen a character like this before . That brings us to the digital effects , which get trotted out pretty frequently . Some of them are actually reasonably impressive , with standout moments involving transitions from live performers to puppets , dummies , or CGI ( just check out the scene where the young deputy gets a light thrown on him and perishes instantly ) . I'll be darned if they weren't more convincing than I would have expected . This is certainly a more lengthy analysis than such a routine , forgettable genre entry ( steeped deep in religious themes as many horror movies are ) should get . I'm just trying to get all my thoughts out . Was it worth a couple of bucks ? Yeah , it was okay . But I wouldn't be able to call it an unsung , overlooked little gem with a straight face .
This " phantom " sure hates people in rowboats . . .	Average 1950's low , low budget fright feature about a radioactive light in the ocean and the goofy creature guarding it . Appearing on the scene to probe the mystery is brainiac scientist and author Ted Stevens ( Kent Taylor ) , who romances the daughter ( Cathy Downs ) of local professor ( Michael Whalen ) , because , of course , that's what all the brainiac heroes did in films of this type in the 1950's . You know you're not going to be in for anything special when the monster is revealed at no sooner than the one minute mark . Way to overplay ones ' hand . Anyway , it's typical schlock - acres of exposition for the scientists to give us , silly " scares " , a " plot " not really worth describing ( except that it apparently involves espionage ! ) , a typical schlock movie score from Ronald Stein , and a hasty , rushed resolution in order to keep the running time trim and tidy . Yet , for people like me , this kind of silly dreck from a period when lots of movies like this got cranked out may sometimes do the trick . Even if it has to be enjoyed on the " so-bad-it's-good " level , it is fairly endearing in that way , especially when everybody on screen is playing it with such a straight face . Even on this level , there's nothing that particularly stands out about it ; once it's over , it's forgettable . Good for some chuckles but that's about it .
Maybe a cameo from Freddy himself could have redeemed it . . .	For a horror fan , the idea of watching something directed by genre icon Robert Englund might be too good to pass up , but this picture doesn't have much going for it besides novelty value . " 976-Evil " tells the story of much-abused , uber-nerdy outcast ' Hoax ' Wilmoth ( Stephen Geoffreys , who actually isn't as over-the-top weird as he was in " Fright Night " ) , and his ' cool ' , rebellious cousin Spike ( Patrick O'Bryan ) , both of whom dial this goofy , gimmicky service that dispenses advice on how to deal with one's problems . Spike is able to use it to his advantage , but ' Hoax ' is so impressionable that his repeated use of the service turns him into a demonic , freaky-looking imp that , while he is finally able to sadistically punish his tormentors ( incidentally , they're all part of Spike's circle of friends ! ) , we know that nothing good can come of this . Helping to firmly establish the obvious inspiration from " Carrie " , ' Hoax ' is saddled with an overly religious nut-job of a mother ( film veteran Sandy Dennis ) , who , much like Piper Laurie in that other movie , was probably encouraged to go for broke in her performance . Alas , as another reviewer pointed out , she's more annoying than anything else , and a viewer may grow impatient to see her get her comeuppance . Overall , the film doesn't have much intensity , or pizazz , with no memorable set pieces , although I liked the opening sequence , the scene near the end which visualizes well the concept of a literally ' h frozen over ' room , and ' Hoax''s makeup , which is a little inventive , not quite the usual demonic makeup . Some of the sets are also impressively disgusting and seedy . Some performances are acceptable , some of them inept , and the writing ( future Oscar winner Brian Helgeland , who also had contributed to " A Nightmare on Elm Street 4 : The Dream Master " prior to this , was one of the credited writers here ) has its share of flaws . The ending actually isn't that bad , but when all is said and done , the picture emerges as a little underwhelming . At least it has a great little cameo for Robert Picardo . ( Also worth noting is that Englund's wife at the time plays the diner waitress . ) Not bad , but it could have been better .
Nothing special or memorable , but passable low-budget 1970's horror .	Elderly Pauline Christophe lives in a nice old mansion atop a mountain where , yes , there is a skull visible in the rock . She arranges for four strangers - her kin - to come to the mansion , and after she passes away , the four experience a series of strange , voodoo-related occurrences . Minor African-American themed horror movie has some atmosphere and an entertaining music score going for it . It also has some likable characters and performances . Victor French ( ' Little House on the Prairie ' , ' Highway to Heaven ' ) is an interesting lead , and the classy looking Janee Michelle definitely has some appeal . Also prominent in the cast is Mike Evans of ' All in the Family ' and ' The Jeffersons ' to provide some comic relief . The film moves along well enough although the climactic voodoo ceremony goes on a little too long . It also could have used a touch more mystery . As a 1970's era B movie , I didn't think it was too bad . It kept me interested enough , and , to be sure , one just doesn't see films like this nowadays .
Good for a number of laughs .	This cheap , Florida-shot " horror " movie has playboy author Tom Harris ( William Joyce ) coerced into traveling to a remote island in the hopes that he'll find the rumors about the place - involving the walking dead - will inspire him to write a new novel . He finds the rumors to be true and seeks to escape along with his traveling companions , as well as the current object of his lust , Jeannie Biladeau ( Heather Hewitt ) , daughter of a local scientist . Pretty much right from the start I became aware that this would be functioning on an enjoyably bad level . The script is daft , the acting is silly , the makeup and the effects are cruddy , and the film-making in general just plain inept . There's no atmosphere , no suspense , no surprises - but a whole lot of infectiously unintentional ( ? ) comedy . The characters are all dolts , too ; Coral , played by Betty Hyatt Linton , is so shrill and strident that a viewer may beg for the zombies to get her . Unreleased for several years , writer / producer / director Del Tenney finally found a distributor in Jerry Gross , who would use it as a double bill with " I Drink Your Blood " and re-christen it " I Eat Your Skin " ( although the consumption of human flesh is not to be seen here ) . In any event , some folk may just find it appallingly bad , but if you're like me and most often get a kick out of lousy B movies , you just might be entertained by this one .
" I see you like guns . What else do you like ? "	Another of the " Alien " clones - or should I say rip-offs ? - of the 1980's , in which a team of astronauts are pursued by a deadly beast that has made mincemeat of a previous mission . I know , this is not particularly GOOD , but it is made with some degree of competence - with special effects by the L . A . Effects Group , Inc . , who also worked on " Explorers " and " Aliens " . I thought that this group of film-makers stretched their minimal budget a fair bit and were able to deliver a fairly suspenseful and gory , if painfully derivative and formulaic , science-fiction / horror thriller . The cast is pretty unremarkable , with the only familiar faces being Lyman Ward - who played the clueless father in " Ferris Bueller's Day Off " - and the legendary Klaus Kinski , he of well over a hundred feature film appearances . In fact , Kinski is pretty funny at times , actually making the film worth seeing for some stretch of its running time . It might have helped if the creature weren't so obviously patterned after " Alien " ' s infamous killer . I admit once again that I may be too easy to please at times but I didn't consider " Creature " ( originally titled " Titan Find " ) to be an inordinate waste of my time . If you're a Kinski fan , you might want to check it out .
Look out , creeps . . . here comes Bronson !	Paul Kersey ( Charles Bronson ) returns to NYC where he eventually embarks on an all-new rampage that is actually ENCOURAGED by frustrated police chief Richard Shriker ( Ed Lauter , who had done several pictures with Bronson ) to do his thing after legions of greasy psychos are laying waste to the inner city - the primary bad guy is Manny Fraker ( Gavan O'Herlihy , son of the recently deceased Dan O'Herlihy ) and he has a score to settle with Kersey . More of a straightforward action movie than any sort of message movie or grisly exploitation flick - tons of gunfire , many violent deaths , lots of stunts . It's not as unappealing as the first sequel , but it is still plenty mean-spirited . The film-makers , in order to make us , the audience , as furious as possible , kill off many of the decent folk in the film . ( To that end , I knew it was inevitable that Kathryn Davis ( Deborah Raffin ) , the new obligatory love interest for Kersey , would get offed when she expressed desire to get out of the city . ) Typical vigilante picture , no better or worse than most . Writer Don Jakoby ( using the pseudonym Michael Edmonds ) concocted some of the most god-awful dialog I've ever heard , and plotting is pretty much non-existent . Of course , those of us who enjoy films like this don't watch them for the writing . We watch them hoping for wall-to-wall , over-the-top , in-your-face , violent action scenes , which this film delivers in large doses for its chaotic climax . Kersey shows some ingenuity in this film , booby-trapping apartments so that the bad guys seriously wound themselves trying to enter . You will also see an incredible assortment of weaponry in " Death Wish 3 " - much of it ordered through the mail , no less . The supporting performances by Ed Lauter , Gavan O'Herlihy , and Martin Balsam are reasonably good . If you're curious , you can check out the early appearances by some familiar faces : Alex Winter ( a . k . a . " Bill " from the " Bill & Ted " movies ) , Marina Sirtis ( a . k . a . " Troi " from ' Star Trek : The Next Generation ' ) and Ricco Ross ( " Aliens " , " Wishmaster " ) . As in the previous movie , the music is composed and performed by Jimmy Page ( although I actually liked his score for " Death Wish II " more - it was one of that movie's more worthy components ) . It's silly and ridiculous , but it may deliver the goods for action fans . Filmed partially in London !
Interesting as a curio , in any event .	Albert Rose ( Leslie Marlowe ) is a macho young dude who gets blackmailed by a kinky weirdo named Dominita ( Dorian Wayne ) into being Dominitas ' in-drag live-in maid . Turns out , Dominita does this to other folk as well , including her lesbian secretary Ruth ( Wendy Roberts ) , whom Albert finds himself falling for , even as he gets quite used to the charade . Determining to break free of Dominitas ' grip , he and Ruth work to expose their boss's not-too-subtle " secret " . This low-budget Miami-filmed trash marked the feature film directorial debut of Bob Clark , whose notable career would include such subsequent efforts as " Children Shouldn't Play with Dead Things " , " Deathdream " , " Black Christmas " , " Porky's " , and " A Christmas Story " . As such , I felt I would check it out . Ultimately , it's highly amusing if not exactly " good " . It purports to be a " serious " examination of alternative lifestyles , in the hopes of obtaining greater understanding from the viewer and the world at large . This comes complete with the lead-in " factual exposition " from a supposed expert in these matters , which just makes the whole silly movie even more amusing . Of course the acting is not particularly good , and the movie is overall an uneventful and inauspicious debut for its late , celebrated director . The curious might want to try sitting through it ; all I advise is to keep expectations very low .
Let me ruin your evening . . .	Well , this goofy , gimmick heavy cult monster movie didn't ruin my evening . It's silly enough to be somewhat amusing . A dozen assorted creatures , each with its own style of dress and murder , emerge from inside the Golden Gate Bridge at night and slaughter people . They kill all of Natalie's ( Leilani Sarelle ) friends , and , of course , when she tells the cops what she saw , they refuse to believe her outlandish story . She makes friends with " nice guy " Steven ( Allan Hayes of " Friday the 13th : The Final Chapter " ) as well as spunky kid Paula ( Donna Locke ) , an avid horror buff who tries to get proof of the creatures ' existence and inadvertently discovers that their weakness is contact with good old fashioned H2O . This little known movie is so 1980's that it hurts , with an all-too-typical electronic music score that is really the crowning touch . The effects are not spectacular but they are acceptable . The picture might have been more fun if it were more stylish or energetic but the director Joseph Mangine is clearly not in his element - usually he's a cinematographer of B movies like " Squirm " , " Alligator " and " Alone in the Dark " ( 1982 ) . The film suffered some production problems , resulting in recasting of some of the creature performers as well as Mangine handling cinematography as well as direction after the original DP ( Oliver Wood ) left the production . Sarelle went on to play Roxy in " Basic Instinct " , and debuting actor Andrew Divoff , playing the role of " Doc " here , is now best known as the star of the " Wishmaster " series . " Neon Maniacs " is okay for what it is but that's about it .
Enjoyable for what it is .	Another in the line of European horror flicks to draw inspiration from - or rip off , if you will - George Romeros ' zombie classics " Night of the Living Dead " and " Dawn of the Dead " , this flick from exploitation veteran Bruno Mattei sees a plant in New Guinea - called a " hope centre " in the film - break down , spreading vapor into the jungle and creating zombies out of many of the locals . An intrepid reporter and her cameraman are joined by a S . W . A . T . team that need to make it to the hope centre in an attempt to solve the problem . Many folks are of the opinion that this is either so-bad-it's-good or just plain bad . It's hard to argue those points when so much of the dialog is insanely ludicrous and the performances so uninspired . ( Frank Garfield , however , contributes an eye-bulging , scenery-stomping performance as a flamboyant member of the S . W . A . T . team that certainly helps to break the tedium . ) It's a plodding film that offers nothing we haven't seen before ; although the frequent use of stock footage didn't annoy me as much as it did some viewers , it doesn't really add anything . The relentless onslaught of cheap gore has its moments ; the loving close-up , right at the end , of one characters ' demise , I thought was pretty amusing . One sequence involving the zombification of an adorable child , unfortunately , just isn't as disturbing as it ought to be . One of the most bizarre and goofy things that Mattei does is have one of his protagonists play dress-up and launch into a Gene Kelly routine right before the zombies have at him . I have no idea what to make of this . I acknowledge that there are certainly better films of this kind out there , but it worked for me as an engagingly stupid guilty pleasure , unoriginal and not particularly well made , but gleefully gory nonsense just the same .
A passable thriller . . .	Neither very successful nor a total bomb ( at least in my opinion ) , this Hitchcock wannabe ( which , as other IMDb users here state , borrows devices from at least seven of The Master's films ) is about psychiatrist Sam Rice ( Roy Scheider ) who probes the murder of patient George Bynum ( Josef Sommer ) , and becomes intrigued with the dead man's attractive but aloof young mistress , Brooke Reynolds ( Meryl Streep ) , who may or may not have been the one who killed him . Overall , a so-so film that is at least well made technically . Robert Benton , of " Kramer vs . Kramer " fame , directs it capably , Nestor Almendros photographs it well , and some genuine suspense is created . Scheider is , as always , well worth watching , and Jessica Tandy ( who actually worked with Hitchcock in " The Birds " ) stands out in her brief screen time as Scheider's mom , who is also a shrink . Streep , unfortunately , comes off as just TOO cold . It's hard to be interested in a possible femme-fatale who looks so disinterested . Benton's script , based on his and David Newman's story , is probably one of the weaker links in this chain . Ultimately , the film gives in to predictability rather than nuance . The finale in particular seems like stuff many of us have seen before . It's not a total waste of time , and I think it's worth catching if you're a fan of Scheider , or at least want to get a real eyeful of Streep .
" You and I are one now , dummy . "	As schlocky so-bad-it's-good 1970's drive-in fare goes , this is never as hysterical or endearing as I would have liked , but it's fairly amusing garbage nonetheless . Twisted doctor Roger Gerard ( Bruce Dern ) , cast out of the medical community for his radical ideas ( natch ) , and spurred on by his maniacal accomplice Max ( Berry Kroeger ) , attaches the head of sick , insane rapist-killer Manuel Cass ( Albert Cole ) to kind-hearted , mentally impaired giant Danny Norton ( John Bloom ) . Dr . Gerard , it seems , likes to put a second head on most living things . The Frankensteins ' monster like creation proceeds to go on the eventual rampage . Well , one can't get much more offbeat than this . The effects are laughably primitive , the music decidedly odd and funky ( adding to the skewed sensibility of the film ) , the editing full of quick cuts . I will say that even if I didn't enjoy it as much as I would have liked , it's still good for some laughs . Heck , any film that stars Casey Kasem as the concerned friend ( he's also the voice of any DJ that you hear in the film ) automatically raises the curiosity quotient . Sexy Pat Priest of ' The Munsters ' is the victimized wife . The seven foot four inch tall Bloom is lovably sincere as the sweet , simple-minded giant . Cole is completely , hilariously unsubtle as the depraved lunatic . And Dern , well . . . we all know that the twisted roles have fit him like a glove throughout his career . This is another of those films where I have to give the performers credit for performing it all with a straight face . I don't know how they do it . Worth a glance for lovers of low-budget trash who also like it to be as irreverent as possible . I certainly had to laugh at the phrase " Jekyll and Hyde joy juice " ; you sure don't hear stuff like that every day ! Incredibly , A . I . P . recycled the same idea just the following year with " The Thing with Two Heads " !
Not The Most Fun Movie Ever Made .	A handful of people are invited to the spend the night as part of a warped birthday party . The house they are invited to is an ugly nightmare that served as a barbaric insane asylum ( is there any other kind in horror films ? ) in the 1930's . If they survive the night , they each get one million dollars . VERY twisted , unpleasant , gory horror entry with some repellent characters ; I'm sure this will be fun for some hardcore horror fans , but I can't see a LOT of people liking it . Obviously more work went into the visual effects than in making the film coherent . This is a remake of a 1950's camp horror movie starring the indomitable Vincent Price . ( The two main characters , played by Geoffrey Rush and Famke Janssen , are named Price . ) While not having seen the original film , is it safe for me to assume it wasn't as explicit or graphic as this one ? ( Oscar-winner Rush is amusing doing his best Vincent Price impression . ) At least it's more politically correct than earlier horror movies . I'll be generous and give it . . . but it ain't worth more than that .
Silly schlock movie offers some fun .	Among the many things that movies teach us is that trespassing on Indian burial grounds is a fatal mistake . Try telling that to the dummies here : a macho professor and his airhead students who go poking around the area , despite the warnings of a local . Tartu , a " witch doctor " who existed 400 years ago , rises from the grave and takes the forms of various animals - a snake , a gator , a shark - to dispatch his victims . If Florida-based veteran B movie director William Grefe accomplishes one thing , it's to show that the Everglades don't make a bad location for a horror movie . The director manages to create some tension out of his pursuit scenes . The death scenes are usually not convincing , but Grefe ought to get some credit for coming up with some stuff that must have been shocking back in its day ( a shark in fresh water ? ) , and that includes the little doses of gore to accompany these deaths . The actors ain't so great , and the characters are all just annoying enough to make one root for their demise rather than hope they escape . But I think what really hurts the movie is bad pacing ; it's just too protracted too much of the time . While certainly good for some laughs , it wasn't as much fun as I would have liked , even on the level of an enjoyably bad movie . Not that it doesn't have its moments . But overall I think I prefer another Grefe movie from this period , the hilariously absurd Jellyfish Man movie " Sting of Death " .
" What's the damage ? " " Six . . . so far . "	Escaped mass murderer Russ Thorn ( Michael Villella ) , with the aid of a portable power drill , slaughters the air-headed teenagers in a suburban neighborhood . That's all the plot there is . Unbelievably , this movie was directed and written by women ( Amy Jones and feminist author Rita Mae Brown respectively ) . I don't know what their intention was . Is this supposed to be a parody ? A horror comedy ? They didn't seem to have their tongues in their cheeks - I mean , the film seems to be taking itself seriously . All Jones and Brown have really done with " The Slumber Party Massacre " is to serve up the kind of ingredients that some fans of this stuff really salivate for : T & A and gore . That's ultimately the problem with " The Slumber Party Massacre " . It's virtually indistinguishable from other films of its kind , so whatever Jones and Brown had planned , the result is just another slasher film . Thorn's weapon of choice IS a little innovative - I mean , usually in slasher movies , all the killer ever uses is some sort of sharp object - a knife , an ax , what have you . And the sequence with the pizza boy ( played by co-producer Aaron Lipstadt ) is sort of memorable . The movie is quite gory , not very suspenseful ( despite all the darkness for the killer to lurk in ) , and very , very short . Acting is about what you would expect for a B-grade slasher : uninspired , although some of these ladies are good screamers ; features an early appearance by attractive B-movie veteran Brinke Stevens . Perhaps most surprisingly , the final showdown is better than I would have expected . " The Slumber Party Massacre " is ultimately silly , routine , and clichéd , and I'll be frank , it IS sleazy , exploitative trash - but that's what makes some of these films fun . It's light years removed from the more classy thrills of films like " Psycho " and " Halloween " , but it has something . Followed by two sequels .
Doesn't leave a lasting impression .	Sean Connery plays Federal District Marshal William T . O'Niel , who lays down the law at a mining colony on Io , the third moon of Jupiter . He makes the discovery that the miners are being given a drug that makes them work much harder , but which eventually fries their brains . O'Niel is determined to punish the man ( Peter Boyle ) who is running this scheme . Low-key , slick , high-tech science-fiction variation on " High Noon " ( written by director Peter Hyams ) , which is moderately entertaining but pretty forgettable . The finale is reasonably suspenseful , the sets OK ( although they're really no different than the sets in many similar sci-fi movies ) , and the deaths surprisingly gory . Performances are rather flat ; I get the sense that most of these actors are just going through the motions , including Connery , although I did get some entertainment listening to the banter between the gruff O'Niel and the cantankerous Dr . Lazarus ( Frances Sternhagen ) . Sternhagen had already proved to me that she could steal a scene very well in her frequent appearances on ' Cheers ' as Cliff's mother , and she's pretty amusing here . Highly reminiscent of " Alien " in terms of its designs and music score ( no surprise , since the late , great Jerry Goldsmith did the music for both ) , not to mention the mixture of American and British actors in main and supporting roles . ( By the way , there ARE good actors in this film , but they have been better utilized in other film and TV projects . ) " Outland " is mainly average - nothing really makes it stand out . Speaking of ' Cheers ' , John Ratzenberger is in this too - he's the guy who has the breakdown ( " I HATE SPIDERS ! " ) in the beginning portion of this film . Still , I generally enjoy Peter Hyams's films - I think he's kind of under-rated , to tell the truth - although he has made an occasional clunker ( " Stay Tuned " , anyone ? ) . This is just not one of his better films . As one reviewer noted , the film loses a little credibility when no-one corrects the spelling in the opening information crawl ( ' marshall ' instead of ' marshal ' and ' principle ' instead of ' principal ' ) .
Not quite a pile of bat guano , but nothing very enjoyable either .	Dr . John Beck ( Stewart Moss ) is bitten by a bat while exploring a cave with wife Cathy ( Marianne McAndrew ) . In this movie , that's enough to slowly turn him into a man-bat thing that must go out and kill . Meanwhile , the terminally naive Cathy refuses to believe that her husband is experiencing something very strange . Directed without much flair by a man named Jerry Jameson , a veteran of mostly TV series and TV movies , the movie isn't that much fun . It's a very minor little effort that doesn't really offer any memorable scenes . The acting is also by and large very amateurish . One stalking sequence would have worked out a bit better if the accompanying music had been more appropriate . Makeup effects expert / veteran Stan Winston ( billed here as " Stanley " ) has one of his earliest gigs here , and aside from one great hand-turns-into-a-bat-wing effect , his work here isn't among his best . B movie veteran Michael Pataki , as a cop , and Arthur Space , as a drunken , philosophizing bum , stand out among the cast . Pataki has an effectively bloody final scene . This is a movie that might have benefited from being shorter , livelier , and had more fun being a simple , cheesy little genre picture . I just couldn't get into it that much , and I'm certainly not going to remember it for long . On the bright side , the cave locations are fairly decent , and it's not completely lacking in any sort of atmosphere . Ultimately , though , I can see why MST3K would have taken aim at this one . It is silly stuff .
Uninspired , junky B movie .	Supposedly based on actual events , this silly little movie played out for me not so much as horror but a low level survival-of-the-fittest yarn . A troupe of repellent city kids are on vacation in the deep woods . They make the fatal mistake of mixing it up with your standard-issue repulsive and psychotic hillbilly villains , who of course don't take kindly to having their territory trod upon . This was very tough to stick with for a while . The " heroes " are such an inane and worthless bunch that the end result is not caring who lives and who dies . ( In fact , it wouldn't have bothered me one bit to see everybody buy the farm . That's how bad the characters and performances are . ) The script ( by director Anthony Indelicato , who also plays the sheriff , and veteran character actor Frank Adonis , who plays Bubba ) is dull and routine . The film-makers do spice it up with some graphic gore and much-appreciated nudity ( at least there are some lovely young ladies on hand to serve as eye candy ) but all of this barely adds up to much when the movie is over . The final nail in the coffin is the ridiculous ending , the one last indicator of how clichéd and unimaginative the whole enterprise is .
Nothing Worth Getting Excited About .	Farcical crime comedy starring two attractive superstars , Brad Pitt and Julia Roberts , as a couple whose relationship is in trouble . The trouble is , he's an errand boy for the mob , and a terminal screw-up to boot . He's ordered to retrieve and transport an ancient , antique pistol to mob boss Margolese ( Gene Hackman ) but everything goes wrong for him . . . and I do mean everything . Meanwhile , Samantha ( Roberts ) has been kidnapped by a thug ( James Gandolfini ) as a means of insuring Jerry ( Pitt ) does the job right . Moderately funny , mildly successful film is okay but nothing more . Biggest problem is it goes on too long . Worth watching for the performances of Gandolfini and J . K . Simmons ; their scenes are the best in the film . I give it .
It looks like it was MADE by maniacs . . .	Ultra-creepy , trashy , and sleazy horror outing - truly one of the most depraved shockers ever made - an almost plotless movie about overweight , un-handsome middle-aged man ( character actor Joe Spinell , in the performance of his career ) who was regularly abused as a child and symbolically takes revenge against his mother by slaughtering young women and then removing their scalps and placing them on his mannequins . This was truly a hard movie to rate : on the one hand , it's about as unappealing as you can get , and revels - I mean really revels - in its over-the-top gore ( provided by Tom Savini , who also plays the part of the ill-fated ' Disco Boy ' ) . It's got nothing to really redeem it , and the film-making isn't even particularly stylish . However , it's a film I can respect without actually liking , because in the end it IS true to itself and certain to please the kind of people who can't help but enjoy movie violence . I also must say that it is ultimately very memorable , maybe not for the right reasons , but it IS memorable . Regardless of your verdict , can you agree that it does at least feature an excellent performance by Spinell ? The actor penned a sequel several years later that never saw the light of day due to his death in 1989 . In the meantime , watch at your own risk .
You don't have to go to Texas to watch a sublimely silly slasher flick .	The basic plot of this Spanish entry in the slice ' n ' dice craze of the 70's and 80's has a sadistic , maniacal fiend carving up cute co-eds - mostly with a chainsaw - for the purpose of using their body parts to create a human jigsaw puzzle . An inept pair of detectives ( Christopher George and Frank Brana ) send an undercover cop ( Georges ' wife Lynda Day George ) in as a tennis instructor in addition to recruiting the services of supposedly studly student Kendall ( Ian Sera ) . But they are no match for this particular psycho ! Shamelessly crass , sleazy , and lovably disgusting , extremely gory horror movie is so bad it had me laughing out loud . Yes , it's that kind of film . Dialog and acting are pretty bad , all right , and the music downright silly at times . Then again , none of us watch this sort of film hoping for Oscar worthy material . It's just plain old blood-squirting-everywhere 100 % pure fun . Plus , we get such hysterical show-stopping scenes such as a kung fu instructor popping in for no good reason just because the producer of this film was also making those kinds of films at the time . Bonus : the politically incorrect humor has the guy blaming his attack on " bad chop suey " . This writing is priceless ! Hulking Paul L . Smith ( of " Midnight Express " and " Popeye " fame ) is a highly amusing presence as the campus gardener , who fights it out with the cops - again , for no good reason . I also can't let this review go by without a mention of the funniest utterances of the word " bastard " in motion picture history . This ain't just so-bad-it's-good , it's so-ridiculous-it's-fantastic . It's recommended for gore hounds everywhere who are looking for a film that they can't possibly take seriously . Co-starring Edmund Purdom , Jack Taylor , and Gerard Tichy , and directed by Juan Piquer Simon ( " Pod People " , " Slugs " ) who makes this a true hall of infamy howler .
Quite the crummy dud indeed .	In this hysterically stupid pile of garbage , a spacecraft crash lands on Earth . Out comes one of the most utterly ridiculous monsters in film history : described as many as a " carpet " , it reminded me more of a parade float , but you get the idea . The silly thing proceeds to devour any human it comes across . Director Vic Savage ( a . k . a . A . J . Nelson ) stars as heroic police deputy Martin , a newlywed , who has to save the day with the help of the military and a scientist . The troubled production of this cinematic equivalent of excrement is actually more interesting than the movie itself . ( Apparently , Savage was a rather scurrilous character . ) Just the fact that the narration had to be added to make up for audio that was either lost or never existed in the first place is just one detail worth noting . The laughs start early and hardly let up . The performances and dialog are abysmal . Providing a precursor to 80's horror films , the assorted expendable victims are often in the act of making out before being gobbled up . And they don't put up any fight , either , practically crawling inside the monsters ' oddly suggestive mouth of their own volition . The picture sometimes moves just as slowly as its monster , with a prime example of padding in a dance sequence that goes on for quite some time . This dazzlingly inept and indefensible movie is perfect for lovers of bad cinema . It's 77 straight minutes of enjoyable - for - all - the - wrong - reasons fun .
Love that T-shirt , Mr . Haig !	The film-making debut for rocker Rob Zombie ; this film tells the story ( such as it is ) of some Stereotypical Horror Movie Morons who run afoul of some Stereotypical Horror Movie Depraved Redneck Freaks . Two guys and their girlfriends are traveling the country documenting strange roadside attractions and come across Captain Spaulding's ( Sid Haig ) macabre museum . The two guys , idiots that they are , want to investigate a local legend called " Dr . Satan " . Turns out to be the worst mistake that they could have made . Although I was honestly annoyed beyond belief after my first viewing , I'll admit that it's grown on me a little . As a horror movie , it's ultimately a failure , because there's no scares or suspense , even though the victims are clearly living through a nightmare . Made in the style of 1970's low-budget horror classics like " The Texas Chain Saw Massacre " and " The Hills Have Eyes " , " House of 1 , 000 Corpses " is actually set in the 1970's , in rural Southwest U . S . A . Of course , Zombie offers many rock video style touches , and throws in a couple of clips from classic movies and series . This movie stars some tolerable newcomers and features some flamboyant performances ( Bill Moseley , as " Otis " , is particularly hammy and in-your-face ) by a gaggle of committed B-movie veterans ; makeup effects , character design and set design aren't particularly distinguished , but do show some degree of imagination . The look of " Dr . Satan " himself is actually sort of interesting . Although Zombie has yet to really mature as a film-maker , there's no denying from me that he is an artist of a true and unique type . I have his greatest hits CD and regularly enjoy the music . The dialog isn't so hot , and the non-stop profanity is wearying . The film's sense of humor isn't great ; it's too often crude without being genuinely funny . It doesn't help that I couldn't side with any of the characters . The victims were useless ( how can you root for people who don't get out when the getting is good , or at least try to fight back ? ) and the psychos weren't as entertaining as I would have liked . What sort of encouraged me to see it again was the cast who agreed to do the follow-up , " The Devil's Rejects " , due for release later this year . Check out the line-up : Sid Haig , Bill Moseley , and Sheri Moon all return , and they're supported by Ken Foree , Michael Berryman , Danny Trejo , William Forsythe , Steve Railsback , Leslie Easterbrook ( That's right ! ' Callahan ' from the " Police Academy " movies replaces Karen Black as ' Mother Firefly ' ! ) , Priscilla Barnes , Tyler Mane , Diamond Dallas Page , Mary Woronov , Elizabeth Daily , Rosario Dawson , Natasha Lyonne , Daniel Roebuck , AND P . J . Soles ! Any film with a cast like that is worth checking out in my book . Like I said , it doesn't really cut it as a horror film , but as a twisted , stylized , and graphic little comedy , it has its moments . Weirdest moment : characters get killed while a song by Slim Whitman plays ! Obviously the kind of film that will engender personal reactions . Audience response has mostly been good but of course there are also those who couldn't stand it . I can't of course guarantee that you'll enjoy this film but I wouldn't go out of my way to steer you away from it , not any more .
Axel Is Back .	Eddie Murphy returns to one of his best roles in this sequel . This time around , Axel Foley is working on an undercover operation in Detroit when he learns that old buddy Lt . Bogomil ( Ronny Cox ) , of the BHPD , has been shot and critically wounded by bad guys . He abandons his job - yes , he just picks up and leaves - and goes back to Beverly Hills to investigate the shooting as well as the serial robberies Bogomil was investigating . Inferior sequel is missing the best ingredients of the first movie . Its attempts at humor are often lame , the movie is uncomfortably serious at one point , the plotting is silly at times and even unrealistic , etc . Axel's scams aren't as funny , either . It's no longer a novelty to see these characters interact , especially since Axel and his old Beverly Hills acquaintances have officially become friends . The primary bad guy , played by German actor Jurgen Prochnow , is boring , and the script even goes so far as to include sexist slurs involving the villainess played by Brigitte Nielsen . " Johnny Wishbone ? " That bit really sucked . ( Although how stupid is the new BHPD police chief ( Allen Garfield ) for actually falling for it ? ) And Billy Rosewood , Judge Reinhold's character , has been given an even bigger role , and he turns out to be both a flake and a fool . I don't think the songs are that bad , though . At least one can , once again , check out early roles for now-familiar performers such as Chris Rock , Gilbert Gottfried , Robert Pastorelli ( ' Murphy Brown ' ) and Paul Guilfoyle ( ' C . S . I . ' ) . I don't HATE it ; it is entertaining and funny at times , but I have to say that the cast deserves better .
" Gorky Park " is a fairly good film .	In this early 1980's thriller based on the novel by Martin Cruz Smith , stiff and self-righteous Russian policeman Arkady Renko ( William Hurt ) probes the mystery of three bodies found buried in Gorky Park with their faces and fingertips removed . The case involves the KGB , two American characters ( Lee Marvin and Brian Dennehy ) , and even his own love interest , Irina ( Joanna Pacula ) . I had been interesting in watching this film for some time - not for any major reason ; it just seemed reasonably intriguing . After having seen it , I think now that it's decent film-making but not among the best thrillers I've ever seen . It just didn't involve me that heavily . The cast elevates it to a level a little above average , despite the fact that none of those attempts at Russian accents sounded convincing to me . The best thing about it for me was seeing an early performance by stage and screen actor Ian McDiarmid ( doing good work as a professor who reluctantly assists Hurt in his investigation ) , probably best known on this continent as Senator / Emperor Palpatine in the " Star Wars " films . Dennehy , as always , was also good . Music composed by James Horner , who sometimes repeats himself - this score sometimes sounds like the ones he did for " 48 Hrs . " and " Commando " .
" Come on , Mom , he's the big spaghetti-o . "	Annie Laird ( Demi Moore ) , a single mother and designer of rather unconventional art exhibits , agrees to serve on the jury for a mobster's ( Tony Lo Bianco ) trial , hoping for a little bit of excitement in her life . You know what ' they ' say , be careful what you wish for . Annie soon gets menaced by cunning , predatory mafia enforcer ' The Teacher ' ( Alec Baldwin ) , who threatens her that if the mobster does not walk free , then she and her son will die . It's probably been said enough how much this movie resembles the 1994 movie " Trial by Jury " . Regardless of who may have concocted the story first , this movie is okay . It's not really something special , but Moore convinces as a frightened and ultimately determined protagonist , and Baldwin oozes a great combination of charm and sleaze . Supporting them are folks who have since become highly familiar faces including Joseph Gordon-Levitt ( ' 3rd Rock From the Sun ' ) as the son Oliver , James Gandolfini ( a . k . a . ' Tony Soprano ' ) as a surprisingly reasonable and understanding mafia henchman , and Anne Heche as the best friend . Everybody is great in this , right down to the small parts , but it's really Moore's and Baldwin's show . The film itself is compelling enough . Annie is an easy person to sympathize with , and root for . It's a decent enough story with a good opening , some enjoyable twists and a satisfying denouement . I think it drags a little bit here and there , but it never becomes too hard to sit through . Basically , I liked it and felt that the acting made it a little better than average .
" Marines have no qualms about killing Martians . "	" Invaders From Mars " ( 1986 ) is director Tobe Hooper's remake of a fondly remembered , classic science-fiction horror story from the 1950's . Young David Gardner ( Hunter Carson ) witnesses a UFO landing just beyond his backyard and notices that soon after almost everybody around him is behaving oddly and rather coldly ( including his parents ) . It turns out that the invading Martians are turning these people into slaves . After my latest viewing , I find that I don't enjoy it as well as I used to . I guess that it loses a little something after repeat viewings , or , as some people say , " it doesn't hold up . " It just seems a little silly to me , sometimes unintentionally funny . ( Or maybe there are parts of it that are supposed to be accepted as tongue-in-cheek ) . It's still interesting and fairly entertaining , with an unusual cast , including the perennially offbeat Karen Black , her real-life son Hunter Carson as the boy , Timothy Bottoms ( " The Last Picture Show " ) , Laraine Newman ( ' Saturday Night Live ' ) , the great character actor James Karen ( who also performed for Tobe Hooper in " Poltergeist " ) , the terminally eccentric Bud Cort as a nerdy young S . E . T . I . scientist , and good old Louise Fletcher , typecast once again as a Nurse Ratched-type villain . ( You KNOW she's a mean one as soon as she shows up on screen . ) This film's strongest department is the effects work and design . The special visual effects are by John Dykstra , the creatures by Stan Winston , and the production design by Leslie Dilley and art direction by Craig Stearns . The film-makers wisely make homages to memorable images from the original , as well as including some obligatory in-jokes , including the casting of Jimmy Hunt , a prominent child actor of the 1940's and 1950's who played young David in the original film , as Police Chief Ward . Hunt has a great line - maybe the most noteworthy one in the picture - when he walks beyond the kid's backyard . " Invaders From Mars " does have its share of detractors , and , in truth , doesn't measure up against other 1980's remakes of 1950's science-fiction / horror favorites ( namely , " The Thing " , " The Fly " , and " The Blob " ) . I still like it - it just doesn't do for me what it used to . It might help if Hunter Carson were a better actor - he might have able to sell his material , and role , better if I believed that he was genuinely terrified . So how does it rank compared to Tobe Hooper's other work ? I don't think that it's among his worst but it's certainly not among his best . It's certainly disappointing that a director who promised so much with his memorable breakthrough film ( " The Texas Chain Saw Massacre " , as if I needed to tell anyone ) has been on a mostly downward slide into utter mediocrity ever since . By the way , Hooper's previous film , " Lifeforce " , is shown playing on a TV screen . How's that for a shameless plug for another Cannon Group product ? Screenplay by Dan O'Bannon and Don Jakoby , based on Richard Blake's screenplay .
Unexceptional , but basically watchable thriller .	As the film opens , a young woman is electrocuted in her bathtub . Shortly after that , another young woman , Kaylie Bedford ( Suzanna Love ) is struck by a car and receives brain damage . Thanks to the Frankenstein-like machinations of one Dr . Clavius ( a grumpy looking Tony Curtis ) , brain waves from the murdered woman are used to help restore Kaylies ' normal functions and allow her to rehabilitate . But now Kaylie's got some of this other womans ' memories in her head , and husband Julian ( Keir Dullea ) goes about solving the crime on his own to try to help out his wife . While not particularly good or memorable , " BrainWaves " ( from Ulli Lommel , director of " The Boogey Man " ) gets by thanks to some of the acting . Both Dullea and Love are appealing protagonists , although Curtis looks throughout as if he simply wants to get to the bank and cash his paycheque . The wonderful Vera Miles of " Psycho " fame ( whose name in this film is Marion , incidentally ) , character actor and trailer narrator supreme Percy Rodrigues and prominent ' Cheers ' barfly Paul Willson round out the main cast . The film has an excellent music score by Robert O . Ragland , and Lommel and crew pull off some great atmospheric shots of The Golden Gate Bridge just so we have no doubts as to where this film is taking place . The pacing is fairly good throughout , and the film wraps up pretty quickly ; one problem , though , is that the mystery to be solved here is a little too easy to figure out . All in all , not bad . It should provide some entertainment for non-discriminating viewers . I liked it well enough .
Good , mindless entertainment .	A documentary film crew sails down the Amazon in search of a mystical and elusive tribe known as the Shirishama . They end up being terrorized and gobbled up by an enormous snake after having already been fatally waylaid by mystery man Paul Serone ( Jon Voight ) . " Anaconda " is simple-minded fun at its core . It might be too silly for the tastes of some viewers , but for me it's really good for laughs . The scares and suspense don't really exist and the special effects are variable ( the animatronic snake ( s ) being more convincing than the computer-animated one ) . It is slickly made ( director Luis Llosa keeps the movie moving well ) and the location work and photography are quite impressive . The cast , including J-Lo , Eric Stoltz , Ice Cube , Owen Wilson , Jonathan Hyde , and Kari Wuhrer , is enjoyable to a point , but they are all playing it straight , whereas Voight , as the campy human villain , is so outrageous that he walks away with the entire movie . When all else fails , he can be counted on to provide this film with some entertainment value . Although filmed on location in Brazil for over 70 minutes of running time , the climax was actually shot in L . A . County's Arboretum , which the filmmakers " dressed up " to try to pass it off as the jungle . " Anaconda " can be fun to watch provided you go in with low ( or no ) expectations . I've seen it before and I still get a ( mild ) kick out of it . Followed last year by " Anacondas : The Hunt for the Blood Orchid " , a sequel in name only .
I didn't think that it was that bad .	After the Third World War has reduced the United States to a barren desert wasteland , two Air Force deserters , Denton ( George Peppard ) and Tanner ( Jan-Michael Vincent ) set out on a post-apocalypse road trip ( in their impressive , fortified tank / van ) , with colleague Keegan ( Paul Winfield ) . Ultimately , they run into other isolated individuals like Janice ( Dominique Sanda ) and Billy ( recent Oscar nominee Jackie Earle Haley ) as they make their way to what they think is civilization . Although user comments here assert that this is a flawed adaptation of the Roger Zelazny novel , I can't make the same assertion not having read the book . All I can say is that for a film of its type , I enjoyed it , and not just on a so-bad-it's-good level . While in the end it's not that involving or stylish or memorable a film , it provides for some acceptable entertainment . Some of the special effects ( the giant scorpions near the beginning , and the light show in the sky ) are admittedly poor , but all in all I think it's an interesting enough film visually . I liked looking at it , and would have appreciated it even more had I been able to see it in widescreen . Jerry Goldsmith contributes another of his excellent scores , and the cast does good enough work , although Sanda is on the dull side , Peppard on the hammy side . Vincent I liked because at least this is from the earlier years of his career when he was considerably more bright-eyed and animated . Winfield is solid as always and leaves the picture too soon . Haley was likable as well . One sequence good for squirm inducement involves hordes of armor-plated cockroaches , which swarm around our heroes . It was good for producing the expected visceral response . The opening picture showing the progress of the nuclear war is actually chilling for being presented in a rather flat , undramatic way - the military men just can't believe what they're seeing , and are not panicking in the slightest . I liked this picture - it's certainly nothing great , but it was entertaining enough for me .
That's the way , uh-huh , uh-huh , he likes it . . . hey Goldmember . . .	Third Austin Powers has the titular super-spy / sex addict time traveling to 1975 , hooking up with old flame Foxxy Cleopatra ( R & B singer Beyonce Knowles ) in an attempt to apprehend Dr . Evil , who's aligned himself with a highly unattractive villain named ' Goldmember ' . Austin also has to rescue his legendary father Nigel ( guest star Michael Caine ) when Nigel is kidnapped by Goldmember's minions . An okay , decent comedy with enough laughs - and pizazz - to keep it watchable , although it wouldn't be an Austin Powers movie if there weren't some failed ( and some obvious ) jokes and a childish reliance on scatological humor . Knowles and Caine are the main attractions here , although there's an amusing role for former child star Fred Savage ( holey MOLEY ! ) Mini-Me returns - fortunately - and Fat Bastard returns - unfortunately . One thing you'll notice is that with each new entry in the series the quality of the star cameos keeps improving . The opening sequence is actually pretty good . Better than the first movie , but without the inspired moments of the second one .
" You Shouldn't Have Buried Me . . . I'm Not Dead . "	Freddy is resurrected - by flaming dog urine , believe it or not - and in short order manages to kill the three remaining Elm Street children . He then turns his attention to a new group of teenaged bozos , but faces opposition from a girl ( Lisa Wilcox ) who turns out to be a formidable opponent . It was with this entry in the series that things changed , not necessarily for the better : Freddy Krueger , and the actor playing him ( Robert Englund ) became the full-fledged star instead of a supporting player . He became a lot less scary after being given too many lines ( including some groan-inducing one-liners ) and too many scenes ( including some well-lit ones ) . Reasonably entertaining ; not the least of the Elm Street movies but missing the element of fear needed to make it truly succeed . It really is a lot more amusing than frightening . Saved from being just average by excellent special effects - including a creative death scene for one poor girl ( Brooke Theiss ) as well as Freddy's " death " scene . The short-lived " Nightmare " TV series debuted somewhere around this time .
The final thirty minutes are not that great .	Highly amusing cult monster movie - with 1980's style creature effects and splatter ; in 1964 , in rural Mississippi , young bride Caroline ( Bibi Besch ) is raped by some mysterious bipedal creature ; then in 1981 , Michael ( Paul Clemens ) , the now teen-aged product of that union , proceeds to start slaughtering the locals - and ends up turning into some sort of beast . " The Beast Within " is not recommended viewing for those who like intelligent horror . The script is flawed overall . It is neither subtle , nor logical , nor intriguing , although the idea of this small middle-of-nowhere rural town hiding a deep , ugly secret is good enough of a hook to reel me in . Yet , somehow , " The Beast Within " does seem to work on its own stupid , gory , nonsensical level . The movie may be flawed but it does have atmosphere - thanks in no small part to the music and the setting . ( However , it is sometimes so dark in this movie you can't really see what's going on . ) The transformation scene that this movie seems to take such pride in is not as great as the theatrical trailer would have you believe . For one thing , it is incredibly protracted , and the final appearance of the Michael-cicada-creature is not particularly imaginative . The movie does boast a solid cast of fine character actors , each of whom deliver good performances . Particular favorites of mine are Don Gordon , R . G . Armstrong , L . Q . Jones , John Dennis Johnston , and Luke Askew . Ronny Cox is very good in the lead of Michael's concerned father figure . Not a bad choice for midnight viewing . Just check your brain at the door , and you'll have a good time .
Take me out to the ball game . . .	This amusing nonsense is about a girls ' baseball team that manages to trounce their macho , grunting-pig , sexist redneck opponents even when the jerks start cheating and playing dirty . Afterwards , two events occur to affect the balance of the picture : the girls ' coach Midnight ( B-movie veteran Ross Hagen ) stubbornly goes about collecting a debt from the rival coach ( Luke Shay ) , and two of the male players , including the son ( Gregory Scott Cummins ) of the rival coach decide they are going to force themselves on the girls . One thing leads to another , and soon the girls are running for their lives . Sometimes akin to " First Blood " , this survival of the fittest tale tries to be two things at once : at some level , a celebration of female empowerment , and pure , leering exploitation fare ( interestingly , it's written by men , and directed by a woman ) . Not that it does that bad at either goal . It's definite B-movie fare : sleazy , energetic , and visceral . It doesn't hurt that the girls are all lookers , and that the redneck villains are so thoroughly repugnant that a viewer will hopefully be rooting for the girls . The woodsy setting works out alright , and the director tries to make the film somewhat slick by shooting a large portion of the action scenes in slow motion . Since I'm only the third person to post a comment on this particular film , not that many people might be aware of it . I say it's nothing really special , but lovers of low-rent B-movies might derive some pleasure out of it . The late , prolific character actor " Buck " Flower - credited here under the pseudonym Ernest Wall - appears in the role of Vern .
If this comedy doesn't scream " turn off your brain before watching " , I don't know what does .	Salesman George Lollar ( Charles Grodin ) loses an important account , and when his boss is understandably enraged , George figures it's about time to take the family on a Christmas vacation . And he picks an island resort named Club Sand , where obviously rampant obnoxiousness and decadence is the name of the game . The writers of " Revenge of the Nerds " concocted this light-hearted and overwhelmingly ridiculous if undeniably breezy affair that coasts as far as it can on the talents of its incredible cast . Don't look for a plot . . . there really isn't one at all , it's just more of a collection of comedy set pieces ( not to mention in-your-face stereotypes ) . The soundtrack of bouncy and cheesy pop tunes does add to the spirit of the thing . Overall , it's hard to completely resist despite its relentless silliness . The humor may not be very inspired , but the movies ' go-for-broke attitude and fast pace at least prevent it from being what I would consider boring . Grodin is in fine form in a typical Grodin role , as he finds himself unable to deal with such escalating lunacy . Robin Pearson Rose is his wife , Megan Mullally his oversexed daughter ( she does a very Karen Walker-like voice here ) , and John Ashton a strident fellow tourist . There's several familiar faces in small roles , including Ian Abercrombie , Brenda Bakke , Gerrit Graham , Phil Hartman , Jon Lovitz , and Mario Van Peebles . From Roger Cormans ' company Concorde , with comedy actress Zane Buzby making her directorial debut and last performance to date ( in a cameo as the slothful babysitter ) .
The only ones I really wanted to root for were the dolphins !	Yet another product off the " Jaws " assembly line - this time , Michael Brody is played by Dennis Quaid and works at Florida's Sea World . His father , Police Chief Martin Brody , is nowhere in sight , yet Michael is visited by his boring and dopey kid brother Sean ( John Putch ) . Due to a faulty sea gate , a mammoth 35-foot shark slips inside the park , gives birth to a baby that dies when improperly handled by park personnel , and goes on a rampage . The theatrical version had the gimmick of 3-D effects , which this DVD does not . The 3-D is the only noteworthy aspect of a passable thriller that only really comes to life for the climax . The characters are bland and foolish and the dialog is sometimes just plain dumb . The absence of some of the original creative team behind the first two pictures is too apparent - " Jaws " was made with passion and skill , " Jaws 2 " with some skill but not so much passion , and this film with little of either . Of course , this picture is still better than the outrageously silly " Jaws : The Revenge " . Directing debut of Joe Alves , the production designer of the first two films , and it's not a great shock that he's directed nothing since , and since returned to what he does best . Just goes to show you the downward slope of this film series - the films got steadily less interesting with each new entry . Our new attraction at Sea World - floating , phony-looking corpses !
Ray Liotta's performance puts the film over . . .	On an eventful Christmas Eve , Teri Halloran ( Lauren Holly ) is a flight attendant on a commercial flight that happens to be transporting two criminals , one a conniving charmer ( Ray Liotta ) convicted of serial murder . Before too long , Ryan Weaver ( Liotta ) has instituted a reign of terror on the flight as the plane flies right into a heavy storm . Slick and contrived action-thriller that takes silliness to a new extreme . Stupid beyond belief and yet it's SO dumb it takes on an enjoyable life of its own , and I got caught up in the action . You sure don't have to think about this one , you can just watch it and be satisfied . Liotta is clearly having such a great time as his character that he helps to carry the film along through its most unbelievable moments . Holly does a respectable job , although I liked her co-star Catherine Hicks ( as the senior flight attendant Maggie ) more and thought it might have been nice if the two actresses could have switched roles . Incidentally , there were at least five technical advisors that worked on the film and I think that they must have done a very good job because they helped the actors involved to actually sound like they knew what they were talking about . Followed by two direct-to-video-and-DVD sequels .
A fairly spooky low-budget horror flick .	It's all about the atmosphere in this not bad little movie marking the directorial swan song of Lew Landers , whose extensive career had dated back to the silent era , and whose credits include the 1935 version of " The Raven " . A stealthy psychopath who wears a black ski mask is terrorizing young folk in a ghost town . In a highly striking opening sequence , he's burying a guy in wet cement . A girl named Marge ( Tracy Olsen ) and two of her suitors , David ( Steve Drexel ) and Ken ( Rod Lauren ) are determined to find out what happened ; the victim was the girls ' brother . When Ken is left alone in town , the villain targets him in scene after scene . As much a meditation on the idea of terror , what it does to people , and how it kills them as much as anything else , as a horror movie , " Terrified " does live up to the title in the way that Ken is victimized by the madman . At one point , it looks as if he might be drowned . ( This is certainly a change of pace from horror movie conventions in having the terror victim being male . ) The way that the madman toys with Ken is nothing short of chilling . Overall , the script and acting are nothing special . It's what Landers does with the material that makes it work . The settings - the ghost town , the cemetery - look desolate and forlorn , and there's a palpable amount of darkness on hand . This results in a fairly good B picture that would probably play well on TV sets early in the morning . One treat is seeing character veteran Denver Pyle , Uncle Jesse from ' The Dukes of Hazzard ' , playing the sheriff .
" Vengeance is mine , sayeth the Lord . . . HA HA HA HA HA ! "	Dr . Dan Potter ( Dwight Schultz ) is the new psychiatrist at " The Haven " , a mental institution with an unorthodox way of treating their patients . The guy in charge , Dr . Leo Bain ( Donald Pleasence ) is a touchy-feely , pot-smoking bloke who seems to be even more wacky than any of the people he's treating . The facility's security is run by electricity , and when a power outage takes place , the loosest screws in the institution - former P . O . W . Frank Hawkes ( Jack Palance ) , demented preacher turned arsonist Byron Sutcliff ( Martin Landau ) , overweight child molester Ronald Elster ( the late Erland Van Lidth ) , and a fourth guy whom I'd better not reveal anything about - escape , and terrorize Potter and his family ; somehow Hawkes has gotten it into his head that Potter murdered the group's former psychiatrist ! Serious , fairly effective horror thriller with the added element of familiar faces playing the villains . Landau overdoes it , but what the heck ? His campiness makes the character more fun than he might have been otherwise . The film as a whole is no great shakes but I think I was too hard on it the first time around . I realize now that there's more going on here than meets the eye , and that debuting writer / director Jack Sholder was somewhat ambitious with his script . I mean , it's no cookie-cutter , formula slasher film . The other performances are okay , but the plot twist involving the " fourth guy " is worth sticking around for , for it pays off in the end . Of course , there is a passing nod to the clichés of the era : a perky , attractive blond babysitter who is around long enough to start having sex and then pay a big price for it . At one point , the " fourth guy " dons a hockey mask ; while one may be tempted to think Sholder was ripping off " Friday the 13th Part III " , this movie was actually shot first . The music was nothing special but it was decent enough , and Tom Savini provides a very brief - maybe two seconds worth of screen time at most - makeup effect . New York " underground " group The Sic Fs - a gimmicky , macabre act that has to be seen to be believed - are around to play two songs . " Chop Up Your Mother " , anyone ? Overall , this is worth checking out if you're interested .
" Tell me more about ze ' wet bone ' . "	Modernized remake of memorable hit comedy from 1979 in which nerdy foot doctor Jerry Peyser ( Albert Brooks ) is plunged into international intrigue by reckless deep-undercover CIA agent Steve Tobias ( Michael Douglas ) , the father of the young man his daughter is marrying . Wow , I can't remember the last time a comedy was so hit-and-miss for me . I'd laugh , then I'd not laugh , then laugh , and so on . Overall , it's just supremely silly , but it's also refreshingly carefree - and hard to dislike . Works best as a vehicle for Brooks and Douglas , who are both great choices for their roles and play off each other very well . David Suchet is also very funny as the French bad guy Douglas is trying to broker a deal with ( he's the one who speaks the line that is the title of my review - and he does it hilariously ) . One good thing about it : it makes me curious to see the original Alan Arkin / Peter Falk movie . Filmed primarily in Toronto .
" 1 , 000 dollars to the person who can prove that the snake-man is not real ! "	Dr . Stoner ( Strother Martin ) , a prominent herpetologist , seems like a very nice , benevolent old gentleman , but he's really just your old-fashioned mad scientist . He hires a student named David ( Dirk Benedict ) supposedly for the purpose of research assistance , but David has in fact been selected to be the test subject for a revolutionary serum . 99-minute horror film that is actually rather serene until the effects of the serum on David go into overdrive . Once this starts , the film gets harrowing and one could get very sympathetic to David's plight . There are no real scares in " SSSSSSS " ( you don't say it , you hiss it ) but it has a certain something . I know I appreciated its subtlety , even though some may find it simply boring . The highlight has to be the makeup effects by John Chambers ( the man behind the special makeup design of the " Planet of the Apes " series ) and Nick Marcellino , and the final transformation scene . Performances are good , especially Strother Martin , who really does deserve more than just to be known as the " what we've got here is failure to communicate " guy from " Cool Hand Luke " . He does a great job of masking Stoner's insanity behind a veil of friendliness . However , I can see why some viewers may feel cheated by the ending . Not VERY good but a better-than-usual horror film for me .
Not as good as the TV skits .	Mr . Bean ( Rowan Atkinson ) is a slothful security guard at a London art gallery whose employers send him to America to accompany the painting " Whistler's Mother " , just so they can be rid of him for a couple of weeks . Bean wreaks havoc both in the American art gallery and in the lives of the family that he boards with . Although fairly well-paced , ninety minutes worth of Bean may be a little much . I have come to prefer the TV skits where Bean is nearly mute ; hearing him talk actually makes him less funny . Atkinson , who created the character with English comedy writer Richard Curtis , is clearly a talent to watch and the supporting cast serves as good foils for his manic silliness . Almost low-key at times , with some genuinely funny moments but none matching some of the more uproarious moments in the TV skits . The highlight is Bean's midnight trip to the art gallery , accompanied by an appropriate music score . The scenes in the hospital where Bean is mistaken for a doctor are also good . All in all , I like it - it's not great , but still above-average when I compare it to most comedies produced these days . ( By the way , my favorite Bean skit is when he goes to a public swimming pool - that episode rules . )
I Liked It .	Wannabe actor Richard Rietti ( Michael Richards ) throws his attorney friend Charles Tuttle ( Jeff Daniels ) an impromptu bachelor party the night before Charles is to appear in court . When Charles is incapacitated ( by a hangover AND the results of a beating ) , Richard tries to help Charles out by posing as an attorney ; then the case goes to trial and Richard is obliged to keep up the act . I actually didn't laugh a whole lot ; I liked it because I found it to be endearing . It's an uncomplicated , modest comedy with likeable characters and a minimum of silliness . Richards and Daniels are excellent , and the movie provides a good showcase for the supporting cast , too , including Charlize Theron , Jessica Steen , the always amusing Rip Torn , Jennifer " Stifler's Mom " Coolidge , and Austin Pendleton . Theron in particular is very appealing and desirable as the small-town waitress Charles falls for . I also found it refreshing that the judge played by Pendleton wouldn't just be annoyed by the three-ring circus his courtroom turns into but highly amused as well . Basically , it's decent stuff . One of director Jonathan Lynn's better efforts . I voted to give it .
Not something I would watch late at night . . .	It might send me to sleep . Seriously intentioned , but incredibly goofy , science-fiction about unconventional plot to invade the U . S . A . As the title says , the villains - in this case , the Chinese - plod along underground in boring machines . When the unusual seismic activity is noticed , American forces try to determine the cause . Upstanding Commander Jonathan Shaw ( Kerwin Mathews ) is on the case . The premise certainly makes this worth an attempt , but the presentation is flat . It's a slow - moving , talky film with a lot of dull performances . This is the first thing in which I've seen fantasy star Mathews ( " The 7th Voyage of Sinbad " ) , and I'm guessing that it's probably not one of his better vehicles . I really wish this could have been more exciting ; it had potential . But it fails to really catch fire . To his credit , director Montgomery Tully occasionally creates scenes of real tension . In particular , I enjoyed a scene where I was convinced that a bomb would be set off ; it was well handled . The finale is not too bad , either . Another scene where a character is hypnotized in handing his comrades false information was also quite amusing . My major point of interest was its blatant political incorrectness which would never be allowed nowadays . We have obviously British actors doing a very poor job of convincing us they're Chinese . So I'll say that at the least this film has unintentional humor going for it . This also applies to the less than special effects . Mathews is likable enough in the lead , and while the other actors fail to really impress , Viviane Ventura as spelunker Tila and Paula Li Shiu as hypnotist Dr . Arnn are definitely very easy on the eyes . Fairly entertaining as a bit of camp , but had this been a little livelier I would have had a bit more fun with it . As it stands , it's no more than mild as a diversion .
Not as funny as I would have liked , but not bad .	From Pat Proft , veteran comedy screenwriter whose credits include the " Naked Gun " and " Hot Shots ! " series , and director Anthony Perkins , comes this very offbeat combo of both dark humor and silliness . Story has Ron Douglas ( corpulent , engaging Joe Alaskey , a stand-up comedian who now makes a living as a voice-over artist ) as a hard-luck average guy whose relationships never work out . Then he meets drop-dead gorgeous Cynthia ( Donna Dixon ) who seems to be genuinely interested in him . But his luck hasn't gotten better , it's gotten worse . . . all she wants to do is feed him to her inbred family of redneck degenerates for Christmas . It makes good enough sense that the man who breathed life into the iconic character of Norman Bates would be at the helm of a film with a highly skewed sensibility . I didn't laugh as much as I was hoping to , but the movie does at least have some good moments . I particularly enjoyed the way the climax turns into a " Hatfields vs . the McCoys " scenario . The cast plays it for all it's worth . Jeff Kober is appropriately creepy as Cynthias ' none-too-subtly menacing brother Ike , and William Morgan Sheppard is hilariously dry as her cantankerous dad . Other familiar folk like Fran Ryan , Leigh McCloskey , Barbara Howard , Joe Unger , Lin Shaye , and Larry Cedar round out this fine cast , but Alaskey - firing off zingers on a consistent basis - anchors it nicely with a likable enough performance . It's worth a look if you're curious - there's no comedy fireworks here , but it entertains well enough and has a little bit of twisted charm to it .
Not top-of-the-line Stephen King material but not bottom of the barrel either .	A werewolf is haunting the small town of Tarker's Mills and only wheelchair-bound young teenager Marty ( Corey Haim ) , his sister Jane ( Megan Follows ) and his Uncle ' Red ' ( Gary Busey ) end up doing anything about it . " Silver Bullet " is pretty routine script wise ( King wrote it himself , based on his ' novelette ' " Cycle of the Werewolf " ) but actually reasonably enjoyable . The film-makers actually try to make it fairly scary , and don't necessarily do a bad job . The film gets a little gory and mean-spirited , but it's counter-balanced by likable characters ( and performances ) and sort of a lightweight pop music score by Jay Chattaway . Features an okay nightmare sequence in which many characters turn into werewolves at the same time and I guess this would be the highlight of the film . Werewolf effects are decent if not quite on the level of similar effects in " An American Werewolf In London " and " The Howling " . This has been the only feature film credit for director Daniel Attias ( an assistant director on " E . T . " and " One From The Heart " ) to date ; everything else he has done has been for TV series . I know I liked this movie reasonably well .
I hope there's no fish on the menu down there . . .	Six miners , one geologist , and one doctor are working 16 , 000 feet below the surface of the Atlantic Ocean , and come across the aftermath of a failed genetic experiment , in this film , one of a few 1989 releases to utilize the theme of encountering creatures in the ocean . If there's one element of this picture that gives it any extra degree of success , it's a unique creature creation by the Stan Winston studio , combining elements of the human anatomy with the features of deep sea marine life . The result is an ugly beast that thrives on blood . Other talent behind the camera extends to composer Jerry Goldsmith and production designer Ron Cobb , Cobb being an old pro at genre fare . Director George P . Cosmatos , whose credits include one of the best action movies of all time - " Rambo : First Blood Part II " , Sylvester Stallone's cop movie " Cobra " , and the great 1993 western " Tombstone " , directs well enough . The largely familiar cast ( Peter Weller , Richard Crenna , Amanda Pays , Daniel Stern , Ernie Hudson , Lisa Eilbacher , Hector Elizondo , Meg Foster , and the late Michael Carmine ) is another asset . I thought that they were generally pretty good , and that they helped to create characters that were actually likable - excepting , of course , Foster's dubious corporate type . The main problem for me is that all of this is a little too familiar . Patterned after " Alien " ( with touches of " The Thing " ( Carpenter's version ) thrown in ) , this movie has very little going for it script wise , with some unsurprising clichés ( I don't want to give too much away in case you're NOT used to this kind of film ) . Ultimately , for me it emerges as pretty unmemorable , albeit fair entertainment for fans of this type of genre fare . Other underwater creature features of 1989 include " The Abyss " , " DeepStar Six " , and the Roger Corman entry " Lords of the Deep " , in case you'd like to make any comparisons .
I realize I'm in the minority here , but . . .	I found it was possible to take this seriously and have some fun with it . Although most reviews here only consider " Mountaintop Motel Massacre " entertaining on a so-bad-it's-good level , this cheap rural horror movie actually delivers some okay atmosphere . Evelyn ( Anna Chappell ) has gotten out of an insane asylum , but she's not exactly cured . After accidentally butchering her daughter in a fit of rage , she convinces the local authorities that it was an accident , but is now pushed right back into insanity . She decides to take it out on her unsuspecting customers , at first only releasing snakes , rats , and roaches into their rooms , then escalating to murder with the aid of her trusty sickle . Passable entertainment for its low budget and filmed on location in Louisiana , I don't actually see how this could be considered that bad . It's certainly derivative and uninspired , but the film-makers take themselves seriously . I was expecting more of an exploitative , over-the-top hack and slash camp fest , but the film actually favors more of the straight thriller approach . It's true that the cast largely is made up of amateurs , but I didn't think that any of the acting was egregiously inept enough to take me out of the film . Character lead Bill Thurman , who was Coach Popper in " The Last Picture Show " is stuck in an unimaginative part - a boozing preacher - but as the top-billed actor in the piece , he has an amusing presence . I also thought that the makeup effects really weren't that bad for low-budget fare . Even the characters ( most of them ) were more likable than annoying , and the film wasn't entirely predictable , both aspects I found refreshing . The music was appropriate , although I found that it got rather redundant . All in all , it's better than I thought it would be - die hard fans of slasher films and drive-in fare might find it worth their while . I more or less enjoyed it .
A man killed with corn-on-the-cob ! That's a first !	Original Stephen King screenplay about Mary and Charles Brady ( Alice Krige and Brian Krause ) who are , in reality , inhuman entities that get their nourishment from the essence of virginal girls , and are forced to constantly move from town to town in order to stay one step ahead of the law . In their current place of residence , Charles selects nice girl Tanya ( Madchen Amick ) as the latest meal , not realizing that his work is cut out for him this time . Overall , I look at it now and I believe that it's kind of lightweight fare . It's never remotely scary or intense - although there's enough gore , violence and profanity on hand to justify an " R " rating - with an awful lot of daytime material , and it's over pretty quickly and is eminently forgettable . That said , the screenplay has an enjoyable amount of offbeat humor , and Mick Garris directs just well enough . The acting is generally good , with the incredibly alluring Ms . Krige - who has yet to be really appreciated by a mainstream audience - in a standout performance . The special effects are very impressive , as well . In addition to our leads , the supporting cast features such familiar faces as Jim Haynie , Ron Perlman , Glenn Shadix , and as Tanya's parents , Cindy Pickett and Lyman Ward , whom any 1980's movie fan will realize also played husband and wife in " Ferris Buller's Day Off " . Bit parts are played by the likes of Rusty Schwimmer ( " Jason Goes to Hell : The Final Friday " ) , Ernie Lively ( " Simon Says " ) , Diane Delano ( " Jeepers Creepers 2 " ) and Stuart Charno ( horror fans will remember him as " Ted " from " Friday the 13th Part 2 " ) . Last but not least , there's an assortment of genre-favorite cameos by King himself ( of course ) , Tobe Hooper , Clive Barker , John Landis , and Joe Dante ; even an uncredited Mark Hamill makes an appearance . The director's wife Cynthia , a frequent performer in his projects , plays Laurie here . The film makes good use of a haunting , ominous earlier song by Enya called " Boadicea " , and , appropriately enough , an instrumental rock song called " Sleepwalk " gets played at least three times . Cat lovers may be pleased to see felines take on a proactive role in a horror film , but be warned that there are also repeated scenes of cruelty to cats ( Sleepwalkers have a critical aversion to them ) . This is fair horror entertainment . It's absolutely nothing special , but , like I said , it does have some things going for it , and it's certainly not among the worst examples of King-based cinema in existence . I think it deserves a little better than a 4 . 3 average .
Not up to " Seven " , but not too bad .	A combination of surreal horror and " psychological drama " in which Claire Cooper ( Annette Bening ) quickly unravels as she becomes linked to a truly insane sicko ( Robert Downey , Jr . ) through her dreams , in which she can see events that will take place in the future . " In Dreams " starts off very strongly with a memorable opening title sequence in which divers search for a murder victim inside an underwater town that was deliberately flooded in order to create a reservoir . Elliot Goldenthal's wonderful music also contributes to the haunting feeling of this portion of the picture . The film has a pretty good look created by cinematographer Darius Khondji ( who also shot " Seven " ) and overall this is a suitably intense and disturbing thriller - maybe just too oppressive at times - a not-bad mystery as well as a vivid portrait of human insanity . The cast is fine , with both Bening and Downey opting for more subtlety than one might expect . There's not a lot of over-the-top screaming fits or anything like that . I didn't really like the characters played by Aidan Quinn or Stephen Rea at all , although that wouldn't really be the actors ' faults . Unfortunately , the balance of the film really fails to live up to that opening . It's reasonably entertaining , but I didn't find it wholly satisfying , mostly because I found that overall I couldn't bring myself to care that much about the story or the characters . Still , it's better than some of the junk out there . You could do worse .
" The boat can leave now . . . tell the crew " .	After an unmanned sailboat arrives in New York Harbor with a zombie on board , a young woman ( Tisa Farrow ) and an investigative journalist ( Ian McCulloch ) travel to an obscure Caribbean island where the dead are returning to life due to possible acts of voodoo . My first introduction to foreign horror is a simple , straightforward , unpretentious little picture that isn't really any great shakes as a horror movie but it is packed with such potent , gruesome set pieces ( a fight between a zombie and a shark , a slow eyeball piercing , etc . ) that it's a favorite among a number of horror fans ( at least , the variety of horror fan that watches these kinds of films for the gore ) . I myself have become so numbed to this kind of material that I no longer wince at all but have to laugh at it . Other than the graphic gore , the thing that I liked best about it was the presence of Richard Johnson , who was so good as the paranormal researcher Dr . Markway in the 1963 version of " The Haunting " ( a totally different kind of horror , that's for sure ) and he's just as good here . Co-star Farrow , Mia F . ' s sister , is underwhelming at best . The final scene is fairly memorable , too .
Lots of derision here , but I actually rather liked it .	Yet another " The Most Dangerous Game " rip-off as wholesome and attractive young folk ( among them future ' Brady Bunch ' dad Robert Reed ) who are pleasure boating decide to tour an island they've just discovered . Living in seclusion on this island is Dr . Albert Balleau ( Wilton Graff ) , who hunts people for sport and puts their bodies on display in a trophy room . While not of any real distinction , " Bloodlust ! " really isn't all that bad . It's not completely incompetent unlike other movies of its kind ; okay , so it's not that credible at times , but it still amuses as a nice little dose of schlock horror . Of course it's cheap and expectedly not that well acted , but I found that it moved along adequately . Reed is a strapping young hero , and Graff a reasonably enjoyable madman . Decent highlights involve leeches , quicksand , and an unexpectedly graphic acid ( ? ) bath . June Kenney and Joan Lora are cute as the girlfriends , and it's a treat to see Lilyan Chauvin ( the mother superior in " Silent Night , Deadly Night " ) looking young and attractive and filling out a bathing suit nicely . I think it would make for decent late night / early morning viewing .
Interesting , ambitious , if not altogether successful .	This early effort from acclaimed film-maker Michael Mann ( " Manhunter " , ' Miami Vice ' , " Heat " , and so on ) is an adaptation of the F . Paul Wilson novel about Nazi soldiers ordered to defend a mountain pass in the Romanian Alps . To do so , they set up their base of operations in an ancient fortress . The villagers warn them about the place , but naturally they don't take the warnings seriously . Some of the soldiers get greedy while on duty and in their search for treasure , unleash the evil presence trapped inside . After several soldiers perish , a disease-ridden Jewish intellectual , Dr . Cuza ( Ian McKellen , who for whatever reason has been dubbed ) , is called in to decipher a message left inside . And mysterious stranger Glaeken Trismegestus ( the ordinarily reliable Scott Glenn , rather stiff here ) turns up to square off against the evil . I'm not going to deny that a significant problem here is the muddled nature of the film ; it tends to want to rush to the " good stuff " without much in the way of exposition or introspection . If this is a case of the studio ( Paramount ) pressuring Mann to make lots of cuts , it's really a shame . That's considering what a thickly atmospheric and ominous production it is . It has a great look , truly looking like it's occurring in another time and place . Production design-art direction and cinematography are excellent . The electronic score by Tangerine Dream is variable ; sometimes it's very effective and sometimes just too intrusive . The special effects really tend towards the cheesy , which is just too bad . The monstrous villain Molasar ( played by Michael Carter , who was the subway tunnel victim in " An American Werewolf in London " and also played Bib Fortuna in " Return of the Jedi " around this time ) is an intriguing character but alas does not look that impressive . The superb supporting cast is at least one good reason to watch it . Alberta Watson is appealing enough as Dr . Cuza's daughter and Galen's love interest , and Robert Prosky as Father Fonescu and William Morgan Sheppard as Alexandru are good . Particularly effective are the great Jurgen Prochnow and Gabriel Byrne as Nazi officers with wildly contrasting viewpoints ; Prochnow is more humanistic and Byrne is a cold-blooded thug . I think that overall " The Keep " is a good if flawed film worth watching if just to note the progress of Mann's career . It does have its moments .
Good sequel .	The offspring of deceased scientist Seth Brundle is growing up at an accelerated rate , and after reaching the human age of five but looking much older , starts the inevitable metamorphosis into an upright walking fly creature that seeks revenge on the two-faced , rotten scientists who pretended to be his friends . The child , named Martin by the scientists , is played at different ages by Matthew Moore , Harley Cross , and Eric Stoltz . At five Martin also finds his first love interest , a lovely night shift computer file clerk played by Daphne Zuniga . I thought it was a fairly intense and entertaining creature feature even if debuting director Chris Walas , creator / designer of the special effects , is not in the same league as David Cronenberg . I think it could have been worse . Performances are reasonably good , even if the villains are one-note and unimaginative . Probably what I got more out of it than anything else was a certain visceral pleasure in seeing a bunch of jerks and otherwise expendable characters get their just desserts . Not as good as the first movie but not that bad either .
A very silly and somewhat amusing horror flick .	200 years ago , one incredibly ugly witch is executed by Transylvanian townsfolk despite warnings that she needs to be exorcised instead . Then along come British couple Veronica ( horror icon Barbara Steele ) and Philip ( Ian Ogilvy ) who have a car accident that plunges them into the same lake where the witch was killed . And now Veronica has disappeared and the witch has taken her place . A modern day descendant of the Van Helsings ( John Karlsen ) is determined to dispense of the witch and wants things to be done right this time . The movie does have its moments , but they're mostly of the light-hearted variety . It has an approach that's blatantly comedic much of the time and renders it positively silly . The climactic car chase is the highlight in this sense . It's not totally lacking in atmosphere but really is not much of a horror film , just an amusing little romp . ( Director Michael Reeves and co-star Ogilvy would team up later for the superior " Witchfinder General " . ) Actor Mel Welles , Mr . Mushnik in the original " The Little Shop of Horrors " , delivers a blustery performance that is a lot of fun ; he was the other highlight of the movie for me . The usually bewitching Ms . Steele doesn't get to do much , unfortunately , and - in her human incarnation , anyway - is absent from the proceedings for too much of the movies ' brief running time . Words like " cheesy " and " tacky " can also easily come to the mind in watching this fairly engaging bit of nonsense . I enjoyed it to a degree , myself .
A fairly decent film - it has its flaws as well as assets .	Big city couple George ( Jake Weber ) and Kim ( Patricia Clarkson ) , with young son Miles ( Erik Per Sullivan ) in tow , travel to the snowy wilderness to stay at a friends ' place for the weekend . Their collision with a deer , and subsequent confrontation with some boorish local hunters , become the catalysts for the awfully strange events that are to follow . I'll get my concerns with the film out of the way so I can get on to the good stuff . I'll be honest ; it tried my patience for a while . Its pace was a little too leisurely . I also felt that the director , Larry Fessenden , got a little too fancy at times with his editing and camera movements . I felt that it was distracting , although , to be fair , it also lends the film a certain unnatural air . On the plus side , Fessenden ( who also wrote and edited ) maintains a powerfully ominous mood and incredible sense of foreboding . The actors , including young Sullivan , do a solid job , creating likable enough if not terribly interesting characters . Fessenden also gives the film a commendably ambiguous appeal - just what exactly in the film is real and what is imagined is never laid out for us . We're treated to some amusing if low-budget effects as the title Native American spirit plays a key role in the story . Michelle DiBuccis ' music is also quite excellent . Finally , it was refreshing as it always is for me to watch an unpredictable film where I couldn't be certain where it was going . Overall , it's pretty thoughtful and a fairly intriguing film if not completely satisfying . I'll give credit to Fessenden for crafting something that is definitely not a typical modern horror film .
It's not as funny the second time around , but it still entertains .	Mitch ( ' Saturday Night Live ' alumni Norm Macdonald ) has trouble holding down regular jobs , so when inspiration strikes , he runs with it : since he's so good at concocting clever revenge ploys , he figures he will make it his line of work . " Dirty Work " is a short and not-exactly - " sweet " comedy that revels in bad taste - that will be a word of warning to the unaware . Without giving too much away , I will say that gags range from tricking a bunch of macho and obnoxious frat boys to striking back at a nasty car dealership owner ( David Koechner of " Anchorman " and " The Dukes of Hazzard " ) . It's true that this movie exists far more in a comedy world than the real one , but since it IS a comedy , I can easily put up with this for the sake of the laughs . Macdonald is not really an actor , but as a comedian he displays a certain laid-back , likable goofiness ( some of his " note to self " one-liners are hilarious ) . He co-wrote the film ; this marked his starring debut , after appearing in " Billy Madison " and " The People Vs . Larry Flynt " . Interestingly enough , this also marked other debuts : the first feature film directorial credit for former prime time comedy star Bob Saget ( thoroughly dispensing with the family friendly persona he'd established with ' Full House ' and ' America's Funniest Home Videos ' ) , and the first major film role for actress Traylor Howard ( ' Two Guys , a Girl , and a Pizza Place ' ) . The cast is rounded out by Artie Lange ( ' Mad TV ' , ' The Howard Stern Radio Show ' ) , veteran comedy stars Chevy Chase and Don Rickles , tough-guy character actor Jack Warden , and typecast comedy villain Christopher McDonald . There are also some not-that-surprising comic cameos , some lengthier than others ( particularly the guy whose nose has been bitten off by the Saigon whore ) . It doesn't hold up as well as I would have hoped , but it still delivers a respectable amount of laughs . One of my favorites is when a wholly inappropriate song is punched in on a jukebox ( accidentally , of course ) to accompany a bar fight . " No matter how bad life gets , there is always beer . " seems about right to me .
Fun if forgettable .	Six members of the Air Force are on leave in Asia , during WWII , during which time one of them gets the bright idea to sneak into a ritual performed by local snake worshipers . As you can expect , they get found out , and a curse is placed upon them . When they finish their tour of duty and return to the States , they start dying off - each bitten by a cobra . I have to admit , the title was what drew me into this one . It sounds like fanciful , campy fun , and that's pretty much what the movie delivers . The mystery element is very unsuccessful , despite the filmmakers ' attempts to be subtle - it's very easy to figure out what's going on and what gorgeous stranger Lisas ' ( Faith Domergue , of other 50's genre fare like " It Came from Beneath the Sea " and " This Island Earth " ) big secret is . But at least it's a highly amusing variation on murder mysteries ( the " cobra vision " is an engaging little gimmick ) , played straight by its capable cast , including Richard Long , Marshall Thompson , Jack Kelly , and David Janssen . The idea that assorted animals in the movie - a dog , a cat , a horse - can sense the evil presence was another mildly amusing twist as well . The music , atmosphere , script , and direction are all perfectly adequate . Although the finale is ultimately underwhelming , it doesn't put too much of a damper on a fun minor Universal 50's genre flick . One may have to be partial to this sort of movie to begin with , but I'll come right out and say that I enjoyed it .
" Hickory , dickory , dock , Cain has picked his lock . . . "	The incredible work by star John Lithgow is the anchor of this psychological thriller from writer / director Brian De Palma . Lithgow plays multiple roles in this story about brothers who perform nefarious deeds for their demented father , and the wife ( Lolita Davidovich ) , who discovers the plot while simultaneously reigniting a sexual relationship with a former lover ( Steven Bauer ) . There are enough twists and turns in this elaborate movie that at first may have a viewer wondering just what is going on . De Palma's script is muddled , but writing isn't his greatest strength . ( I haven't seen all of his thrillers , but there are holes in the " Dressed to Kill " script that I would like to see addressed someday . ) Thankfully , he is still a good enough visual story teller and stylist and thanks to his skills and those of his actors ( that's not to mention the typically haunting music score by frequent collaborator Pino Donaggio ) , he reels me in . Although De Palma is already well known for referencing The Master ( a . k . a . Alfred Hitchcock ) in his works , there's actually a shot in here that I recognized from 1981's " Ghost Story " ( directed by John Irvin ) . One De Palma trademark that was , well , interesting , was the use of a " shocking " ending , which helps to end the picture well . Frequent De Palma actor Gregg Henry plays a detective . This is a fairly good - definitely not great - movie that would probably be best recommended to those who already are admirers of this particular filmmaker . If there's one thing that helps it to be more than just average , it's Lithgow's work .
Nothing special , but decent B-level cop vs . killer fare .	Veteran character / supporting actor Charles Napier made a credible starring debut in this thriller about a hard-drinking , sullen detective on the trail of a killer who seeks to make himself immortal through the ritualistic killings of prostitutes . I wasn't expecting much going in . The story and characters are so trite as to automatically lower those expectations . However , it's not completely lacking in style . The director is Max Kleven , who has had a more substantial career as a stuntman and stunt coordinator . ( Predictably , there are some good stunts to be seen in the film . ) It's also got some atmosphere going for it , some suspense , and some interesting shots . While it is ultimately little more than standard fare for its genre , I have to say that I liked it well enough . Napier is quite believable , and a natural for roles like the one he plays here . Michelle Reese and Katherine Kelly Lang have some appeal in their roles , and none other than the " Maniac Cop " , actor Robert Z'Dar , appears as the freaky villain . The cast is rounded out by other B-movie veterans , with the lovely Joan Chen in a small , small role as one of the prostitutes . Co-written by character actor John Goff , who also plays the police captain , and the associate producer is Goff's real-life friend and frequent co-star Buck Flower , who also makes an appearance . Flowers ' daughter Verkina was the costume designer , making this a bit of a family affair . I won't make like this is some unsung gem of the cop vs . killer genre , but it has its points , and I thought it was fairly entertaining . At the least , it's not what I would call dull , and it's over fairly quickly .
The years of Hammer horror started with this picture . . .	. . . another of their loose adaptations of classic horror novels , in which Baron Victor Frankenstein ( the inimitable Peter Cushing ) becomes obsessed with his scientific experiments , and creates large , lumbering being ( Christopher Lee ) that causes chaos and terror . Lee is buried under what must have been pretty elaborate makeup for its time , and you may not recognize him . As befitting a portrayal of the Frankenstein monster , he garners some sympathy for the poor , addled creature . Cushing is also memorable as the hopelessly dedicated Victor , and I enjoyed the work of Robert Urquhart as Paul Krempe , the tutor who at first willingly helps Victor in his pursuits but turns against him when he realizes that nothing good can come of their actions . Not really good enough for me to count as a classic film ; I think that like other horror , science-fiction , and thriller movies of the era , it moves pretty slowly and is awfully talky for a while , not offering much in the way of genuine horror for much of its running time . Still , it offers decent entertainment - it's nice to look at and has a typically booming , ominous score by James Bernard . Despite its flaws , it IS good of its kind . If there is one thing that I think would have helped , that would be a more chilling atmosphere - something the original Universal monster movies always delivered . Of course , that's just my opinion .
The first of Roger Corman's " Mama " films .	One of the last Roger Corman directorial efforts before an almost twenty-year hiatus , " Bloody Mama " stars Shelley Winters as Kate " Ma " Barker , notorious outlaw of the Great Depression . Ma dominates her four grown sons as they embark on a crime spree climaxing in their kidnapping of rich businessman Sam Pendlebury ( the late , great Pat Hingle ) . " Bloody Mama " isn't just another B gangster movie . It doesn't go for action scenes all that often , and even in scenes that seem to be going for raucousness , it doesn't look as if Corman's heart is really in it . What this film has that some of its brethren don't is the psychological approach , as a very able cast creates a highly offbeat rogue's gallery of characters . The story focuses more on their relationships and personalities than anything else . Folks expecting more sleaze from Corman will undoubtedly be disappointed . Undoubtedly , the film hits its peak with the introduction of the Sam character . Hingle is great in the role of a man who handles his situation with amazing calm and forthrightness ; his exchanges with Winters are especially effective . Winters tears into the scenery every chance she gets . Don Stroud , Robert Walden , Clint Kimbrough , and a young Robert De Niro play the sons ; they're all fine , but it's definitely De Niro ( whose simple-minded Lloyd is addicted to shooting heroin ) who catches one's attention . Bruce Dern , as the convict who becomes Walden's unexpected companion , Diane Varsi , as the prostitute who Stroud intends to marry , and cute Pamela Dunlap as the unfortunate Rembrandt co-star , and they're all rather amusing . It's definitely a joy , however , to see " Scatman " Crothers pop up late in the film as Moses . This film isn't without its little touches that make it a decent diversion . The opening credits song is quite catchy , as is some of the music within the film . The film moves along fairly well towards a rather nasty showdown that turns as bloody as the title promises . It's fairly good entertainment of its type .
An amusingly tawdry and trashy flick .	Victoria Waterman ( Maria De Aragon ) is a sexy , trampy schemer living with her invalid dad Ridgeley ( Eric Allison ) . She's involved with Dr . Craig Cooper ( Peter Carpenter ) , and since Cooper desperately needs money to pay off a blackmailer , she decides to bump off her old man for his money , only to find out that he's leaving most of his money to her longtime absentee sister Gail ( Vicki Peters ) . While it has a rather slow pace , it's sordid enough a melodrama to maintain a certain level of interest . Victoria is one very bad girl ; at one point she has fun with the pool boy in what is actually a pretty comedic sequence . De Aragon deserves some credit for playing this selfish sexpot for all the part is worth . Nudity and sex are in enough abundance here to keep some folks watching . There's also a bit of graphic violence to add some color to the proceedings . The jarring , discordant music lends a skewed quality . And the movie culminates in a sudden act of brutality that while not exactly surprising , still has a good shock effect . But the final scene is truly wild . The cast is entertaining , with Arell Blanton grandly smug as the blackmailer , Allison perfectly grouchy as the ailing father , and Alex Rocco in an early screen role as a lawyer . Overall , it's reasonably engaging sleazy drive-in fare .
Overall , not bad .	Giant-scale disaster film in which an asteroid the size of Texas is headed straight for earth . If it hits , it will wipe out all life on earth . NASA ultimately comes up with a plan to land a team on the asteroid which will drill into its core and plant a nuclear bomb there . For this mission they enlist the best driller ( supposedly ) in the world - - Harry Stamper ( Bruce Willis ) and his rogue's gallery of co-workers . Predictable and clichéd in a number of ways , this did win me over ( to a degree ) just by its sheer scale and fine team of actors . It does become redundant after a while , with lots of crises and explosions ( and Roger Ebert is right about one thing . . . the phrase " It's Gonna Blow ! " is used at least four times , maybe five ) and it's also padded out too much so it ends up an overlong movie . Some people may not mind , though . ( I know the movie was a big money-maker . ) Kudos to Owen Wilson , Michael Clarke Duncan , and Steve Buscemi , all for fine jobs of scene-stealing . But that stupid scene where everybody starts singing " Leaving On a Jet Plane " could have been left out . . . as well as the dumb " animal crackers " scene ( is that scene really supposed to be romantic ? ) . I give it .
Another gratuitous sequel is more like it .	Five years after the events of " 48 HRS . " , police detective Jack Cates ( Nick Nolte ) is in deep you-know-what after repeatedly failing to prove that a criminal mastermind known as " The Iceman " exists . When he learns that " The Iceman " happens to want his old ' pal ' Reggie Hammond ( Eddie Murphy ) dead , he forces Hammond ( who's just about to get out of jail ) to help him out so he can solve the case and hold on to his job . This film isn't bad , but it's unable to duplicate the success of the original . Basically , it's warmed-over , more-of-the-same sequel material . Nolte and Murphy don't even have quite as much chemistry as they did before ( that chemistry evolved out of the two characters ' hostility towards each other in the first movie , and while they still get quite angry with each other at times , the results aren't the same ) . At least , the writers do an interesting job in tying the events of this sequel to those in the first , and there's plenty of explosions , gunfire ( TONS of gunfire ) , and bodies flying through glass to maintain some level of interest . This is more of a standard action / comedy than the first , although I do have to admit that it DID make me laugh at times .
Reasonably entertaining , but fraught with problems .	Science-oriented teenage genius Paul Stephens ( Christopher Collet ) finds out that the new man in his mom's life , Dr . Mathewson ( John Lithgow ) is in the business of nuclear weaponry . In an elaborate and elongated sequence , he actually manages to steal plutonium from the lab that has been set up in his neck of the woods . He then manages to build himself his own bomb , supposedly to make some sort of moral point , but his own ego and desire to show off plays no small part in this endeavor . I , for one , was certainly never rooting for this arrogant kid , who is shown to ultimately not be as smart as he believed he was . He's not really all that likable , and the film does come off as morally dubious in its demonizing of the understandably perturbed government and treatment of the kid . The film is not very strong on credibility , either , with a story with its fair share of holes . It's not as if it's incompetently done , in any event . It's got fairly good suspense and action scenes , and does ratchet up some good tension for the climax . At least for a film running just under two hours in length , it does refrain from ever getting boring and maintains adequate pacing . The cast gives it a good effort . Collet does nail the cockiness of his brash young character , with Lithgow solid as a rock as always . Jill Eikenberry is the loving and concerned mom , a very young and very cute Cynthia Nixon the love interest , and John Mahoney the frustrated colonel trying to rectify the situation . Other familiar faces in small parts include an equally young Robert Sean Leonard ( billed here without the second name ) , Richard Jenkins , Sully Boyar , and Timothy Carhart . All in all , it's enjoyable in some ways but has got too many flaws going against it . If it were played more outrageously or comically , it might be easier to swallow , but the film-makers just don't go that route . I listened to the director's ( rather dry ) audio commentary on the special edition DVD and he seemed to have taken his film seriously . The ending is just way too absurd , with its warm and fuzzy feeling ( " Ooh , we've exposed the big bad government for putting a nuclear lab in our neighborhood . " ) when in real life I can't imagine the kind of trouble that Paul would still be in .
Not as much fun as other A . I . P . quickies , but still fairly enjoyable .	Nancy Perkins ( Sandra Harrison ) , a fiery teenager , is dispatched by her dad and stepmom ( she's angry with the old man for re-marrying six weeks after the death of her mom ) to a girls ' school . While there , she is considered a prime candidate for an experiment by science teacher , Miss Branding ( Louise Lewis ) . Then things go seriously askew as an unknown killer begins murdering the students . We do get some pretty standard commentary for the times , about things man is not meant to meddle with , the price people pay in their pursuit of power , knowledge , or what have you , as well as a statement I didn't expect regarding the motivations parents might have for sending their kids to schools far away . It's standard stuff for the era , complete with a dopey musical interlude featuring the little ditty " Puppy Love " . It's over in record time , with a rather perfunctory resolution , although it has some engaging performances ( supporting players Malcolm Atterbury , Mary Adams and Thomas B . Henry are quite good ) and good moments ( such as the double murder in the cemetery ) . The relationships between the teacher and her guinea pig , as well as between the teacher and her prize student , do give it a little bit of unsettling resonance . Overall , I don't like it as much as some of the other A . I . P . output from the period , but it works as an offbeat and twisted little girls ' school story .
Enjoyably silly cheesefest for those of us that like ' em .	One time Playboy bunny Bobbie Bresee - a buxom blonde beauty - has her first substantial film role in this low budget horror flick . She plays Susan , wife to Oliver ( an ever likable - and lucky , needless to say - Marjoe Gortner ) and the latest victim to her family curse . This causes her to submit to demonic possession ; Oliver and Susans ' family friend / psychiatrist Simon Andrews ( a solid Norman Burton ) notice the changes and try to save her . There are some entertaining components that combine to make this pleasurable . First of all , the film-makers know they've got prime eye candy in their leading lady and have her bare her breasts on more than one occasion . Second , while the broad comedy supplied by co-star La Wanda Page can easily be seen as politically incorrect , it's most amusing to see a black character in a horror film who actually successfully manages to get the hell out of Dodge . Third , even if the " acting " isn't all that hot , the performers are fun to watch regardless . Burtons ' deadpan reaction to one of Bresees ' transformations is simply priceless . Fourth , makeup effects veteran John Buechler , in an early credit , supplies some decent monsters and gore ( one has got to love Bresees ' demon breasts ) . Fifth , there are other talented folk at work here including composer Jaime Mendoza-Nava and art director Robert A . Burns of " Texas Chain Saw Massacre " fame . For a while , the movie is more good for laughs than much else , but it improves as it goes along , with a pretty good climax . " Mausoleum " is agreeable enough horror fare for undemanding fans of the genre .
Not bad rural gorefest .	Five young adults are celebrating the end of their college years by renting a cabin in the backwoods . Their celebration is cut short by the arrival of a local hermit who's contracted a hideous disease . Even after running him off , they realize that their problems are really just beginning after one of their own comes down with some gruesome symptoms herself . Eli Roths ' film-making debut delivers the goods in terms of nastiness and impressively sickening make-up effects . Paying tribute most obviously to " The Evil Dead " , this horror - in - a - cabin - in - the - woods tale has its own moments . It's gut-wrenching at some times , and crammed with offbeat humor at others . Sometimes , however , the offbeat approach is too strange to comprehend ; examples include a karate-chopping androgynous boy who utters " Pancakes ! " for whatever reason , a local deputy who seems to care far more about partying than doing his job , the intrusion of another local ( played by Roth himself ) who supplies these hedonistic kids with weed , etc . The characters by and large aren't really worth caring about , so if I had one particular problem with the film , that would be it . Bert especially comes off as pretty abrasive . Their behavior doesn't make too much sense at times , and the inanity of some plot points have already been pointed out in numerous other user comments . As a grim , gory and twisted horror experience , it's entertaining enough . It's probably best viewed as a goofy black comedy than a horror film .
Uninspired , but reasonably entertaining all the same .	An alien invasion story , based on a landmark Robert A . Heinlein novel , in which diminutive little monsters that look like manta rays attach themselves to human beings and manipulate them like puppets , getting scores of human victims to do their bidding . Government agent Andrew Nivens ( Donald Sutherland ) is on top of the situation , aided by his own son Sam ( Eric Thal ) , also an agent , and a NASA exobiologist named Mary ( cute as a button Julie Warner ) . Other science-fiction films with similar plots - in particular , the Jack Finney novel " Body Snatchers " that inspired three different movie adaptations itself - unfortunately lessen the impact of this belated official adaptation of Heinlein's work . This film , while technically competent , achieves little dramatic effect once all is said and done . It's still watchable , thanks in no small part to Donald Sutherland ( himself , of course , the lead in the 1978 version of " Invasion of the Body Snatchers " ) , in an interesting , amusing , and offbeat star performance . Thal and Warner are okay in support ( the film-makers work in a nicely gratuitous moment to have Warner act nearly topless in one scene ) , but the characters come off as being ciphers . Some excellent supporting / character players have enjoyable minor roles - the always reliable Keith David , Will Patton , Yaphet Kotto ( who's actually rather wasted ) , Marshall Bell , Tom Mason , and Andrew Robinson , with Richard Belzer - perhaps warming up for his TV role of Munch - in a straight , non-jokey performance as the agent / chauffeur . Special effects and set design are standouts . The look of the ' hive ' is well realized ( if reminiscent of the alien chambers in " Aliens " ) , and the creatures , while sometimes animated , are enjoyably icky and slimy creations . Overall , the film looks quite good , and is underscored by an appropriate music score . The film in general doesn't have any scenes that really stand out for me , and even the climax isn't as rousing as it ought to have been . It is indeed a case of a script being reasonably intelligent ( this isn't a film to really indulge in a lot of pumped-up action sequences ; it's more dependent on plot and character than some other films of its kind ) with the direction not being particularly distinguished . Still , it's certainly very passable . It moves fairly well , and in general is entertaining despite a lack of real style . Ultimately , though , it's forgettable . I would watch it for Sutherland if for nothing else .
I'm sure some guys will really enjoy this one . . .	Film adaptation of the story " Carmilla " by J . Sheridan LeFanu about sexy , wanton vampire ( the voluptuous Polish beauty Ingrid Pitt ) with a decided taste for young FEMALE victims . Entertaining horror drama - a co-production between Hammer Studios and American International Pictures - moves a little too slow but that was my only real concern . The film's erotic inclination is its primary focus , and as such it is very alluring , with a pleasing array of British beauties and typically meticulous attention to design and photography . There are a few deviations from the usual vampire myths , which I found to be sort of interesting . Well cast and well acted , with Peter Cushing on hand for good measure ( when you need someone to battle a vampire , who else are you going to rely on ? ) , and a lustful lead performance by Pitt . Well deserving of an R rating , with its sex and gore and nudity . There are no scares or suspense , but I suppose that may not have been the main intention . I thought it was okay .
It has its moments .	When a farmer unearths a big stone from a field , this allows a long dormant beast - the titular character - to arise and wreak havoc among the local populace . Howard Hallenbeck ( David Dukes ) , an American writer of Irish descent , comes to the area to do research and ends up in the thick of things ; it gets very personal for him after an unthinkable tragedy , and he determines to slay the dragon himself . This is another of those cases where I must confess to not having read the Clive Barker short story . Therefore , I can only take the word of what others have said - that it's not a good adaptation . The rural Irish setting adds a special sort of atmosphere - complete with overcast skies - that is a welcome change of pace from scores of other 80's horror movies . Even with Barker himself as the screenwriter , the movie ultimately descends into typical monster-on-the-loose shtick , with one of the ultimate time-worn lines spoken in countless movies of this kind : " I know how it sounds " , when Dukes lays eyes on the monster and tries to convince the naturally skeptical cops of what he saw . All suspense as to the monster is thrown out the window when it gets a reveal about eight minutes in . And it's a mightily silly looking thing - definitely ugly - but silly just the same . The story gets some points , however , for showing us that anyone can be a victim here . Director George Pavlou , who'd previously helmed the Barker adaptation " Underworld " , paces it and stages it competently enough , and lays on the cheese for a gloriously goofy finale involving an elaborate light show and laser-like sound effects . However , he also gives us an all-too-typical final shot , which was just annoying . Dukes is solid in the lead , although Kelly Piper ( the imperiled nurse in the 1980 movie " Maniac " ) is just plain bad as his wife . Niall O'Brien is fairly amusing as Detective Inspector Gissing , while Ronan Wilmot goes wildly over the top as the crazed Declan O'Brien . While not really all that good , it does offer fans of creature features a reasonable dose of good-natured monster mayhem .
" I'm too tired to scream from the pain you've just caused me . " - Tom Hanks ' first words on film	" He Knows You're Alone " is a slasher movie style thriller from 1980 about a silent & deadly serial killer ( Tom Rolfing ) whose choice of victims is brides-to-be , presumably because he was once dumped by a girlfriend who went on to marry somebody else , and apparently it scarred him for life . Pursuing the killer ( who is only referred to by name once ( Ray ) ) is fanatically determined detective Len Gamble ( Lewis Arlt ) , whose murdered bride , incidentally , was the woman who dumped the killer once upon a time . Now the killer , after a period of inactivity , slaughters one poor girl in a movie theater in a sequence later imitated in " Scream 2 " . Then he sets his sights on the really pretty Amy ( Caitlin O'Heaney ) , who despite her upcoming nuptials , is actively being pursued by her nerdy but likable ex-boyfriend ( Don Scardino , who acted in " Squirm " for the same guys who executive-produced this film ) . Clearly , the fact that this marked future screen star Tom Hanks's film debut ( he plays a jogger / college psychology major who's only on screen for about seven minutes ) may be the one thing that some people may find interesting about this film . " He Knows You're Alone " completely lacks imagination for the most part , the opening sequence notwithstanding . It copies " Halloween " pretty fervently , right down to a similar musical theme and having the killer lingering in the background in many shots ( of course , one major difference is that you get a damned good look at the guy's face ) . It's not very stylish - debuting feature film director Armand Mastroianni shows some competence but no real flair . Writer Scott Parker ( who's only got one other credit to his resume ) and Mastroianni do show some restraint in terms of the killings . Very little blood is shown despite the graphic nature of the killings . ( Of course , there is one decapitated head that looks ridiculously phony ) . There is some expected ( partial ) gratuitous nudity , which Mastroianni and Parker supposedly weren't happy about , but filmed due to the producer's insistence . The characters are more likable than usual for slasher fodder , which was refreshing . Familiar faces in the cast also include soap actress Patsy Pease ( Search for Tomorrow , Days of Our Lives , The Young and the Restless ) , character actors James Rebhorn and Paul Gleason , and 1980's horror mainstay Russell Todd ( Friday the 13th Part 2 , Chopping Mall ) . I can't say that it's very scary ; occasionally there's a little bit of suspense , and some okay " jump " moments , but nothing to get excited about . Overall , it's a tolerable 1980's horror product and I think that you could do worse than this .
At least it moves along pretty well .	Standard B action movie pitting a tough NYC cop , Joe Dylanne ( James Remar ) against a sadistic bunch of drug-dealing psychos that have laid claim to a remote forest location in the Northwest . Joe is called home by old flame Katy ( Daphne Ashbrook ) after her brother and his wife are wiped out by the villains . Joe gets an unexpected bit of help when Katys ' insufferably bratty nephew Joshua ( Adam Coleman Howard ) miraculously survives a fall off a cliff and , consumed with the idea of vengeance , resorts to the kinds of methods that might make Rambo proud . This is all very simple , straightforward stuff . It's all about action scenes and keeping the pace going . In that sense , it's competent enough , and it does its job : you root for the hero , hate the bad guys , and enjoy the bloody mayhem . It does at least have a certain level of energy going for it , and the forest setting is well utilized . I'm also appreciative that it does have a sense of humor at times . The songs used give it a very 80's flavor . Remar is solid as the tough guy hero , with familiar faces such as Nick Cassavetes , Chris Mulkey , and Ted White ( Jason in " Friday the 13th : The Final Chapter " ) playing the assorted stone-faced thugs . There's also a last reel revelation regarding the true mastermind behind the whole operation that comes off as pretty amusing especially since this character barely gets mentioned in the first place . It's decent enough action fare that hardcore fans of the genre might enjoy . In a shameless bit of self-promotion , the bad guys watch " A Nightmare on Elm Street " on TV at one point ( New Line Cinema produced both films ) .
The Middle Film Of The Trilogy Is The Weakest .	Prequel to " Raiders of the Lost Ark " takes place in 1935 . This time around , Indiana Jones ( Harrison Ford ) escapes from an encounter in Shanghai , accompanied by a bratty stage performer ( Kate Capshaw , who would become director Steven Spielberg's wife ) and a diminutive young sidekick ( Jonathan Ke Quan , billed as Ke Huy Quan ) . Indiana ends up in India , coming to the aid of some troubled villagers by infiltrating the evil Thuggee cult and retrieving a sacred stone that the cult had stolen . While it rates as a good adventure overall , there are some flaws too big to ignore : i ) a little too much unpleasantness in the film's middle section ( with scenes that seem more appropriate for a horror movie ) ; ii ) a highly annoying leading lady ( although I don't blame Capshaw ; she's just performing the role as written ) ; iii ) the opening nightclub sequence is more silly than anything ; iv ) Dan Aykroyd's brief cameo stands out like a sore thumb . v ) scenes of child abuse ( which should raise red flags for most people ) . The film does pick up in its final 30 + minutes , becoming genuinely rousing and invigorating ; the highlight is the mine car chase . But point number 5 leaves the film with a certain bad taste . Overall , I give it .
Flawed , dated , but somewhat appealing little drama .	College students Robert ( Peter Hooten ) and Jenny ( Kathrine Baumann ) travel to the Northern California wilderness to find old friend Michael ( Robert Englund ) , who's dropped out of sight . They arrive at his remote cabin , and while waiting an awfully long time for him to actually make an appearance , Jenny is raped by two local yokels ( James Keach and David Pritchard , who both also worked on the script ) in the now-familiar " Deliverance " tradition . A rather obscure character-driven drama , " Slashed Dreams " is not as exploitative or horrifying as some people will likely be hoping for . It's a most often slow and quiet meditation on such things as personal philosophy and identity , the idea of how to get over a personal trauma , the value of friendship , the way that times change , and the loss of innocence . I found it kind of appealing , once I realized that it wasn't going to be what I thought . Like some other folks , one thing I wanted to watch it for was Englund , but he doesn't appear until late in the film . It's still interesting to see him play a really drippy " nice guy " . The performances are likable and sensitive enough , and the two goons are not terribly frightening or intimidating ; as we can see , they're not very good at what they do . The relentless onslaught of wistful , maudlin folksy ballads gets to be way too much after a while ; I desperately wanted that stupid singer to just shut up . What little nudity this film has is fleeting and much too tastefully done ; even the climax where Robert confronts the rapists is not done in a go-for-the-throat fashion - it's anticlimactic and boring , and doesn't really resolve anything , despite what Englunds ' character says . Pretty scenery and the prettier Baumann help to break up the tedium . The cameo by legendary entertainer Rudy Vallee as a proprietor who practices a nightclub act in between waiting on customers is very nice , even if he's basically playing the time-honored role of the character in genre fare who utters a " Don't go in the woods " type of warning . Peter Brown of such flicks as " Foxy Brown " and " Rape Squad " has the other cameo as a college professor at the outset . It's not terribly well written , or very interesting overall , but it did have some appeal for me , at least as something of a curio .
Not bad - has its flaws , but a decent cult film .	One of a few movies to draw inspiration from the same real-life event , " Cannonball " tells the story of the Trans-American Grand Prix , where participants race all manner of four-wheeled land-based vehicles from Los Angeles to New York City . Coy " Cannonball " Buckman ( David Carradine ) is the anti-hero , Cade Redman ( Bill McKinney ) his formidable rival . Co-writer / director Paul Bartel ( 1938 - 2000 ) considered himself first and foremost a comedy director , but this movie doesn't seem to contain much humor of any variety . It's kind of a straightforward action / car crash / high speed action movie . Characters here aren't as colorful or gaudy as in " Death Race 2000 " ( Bartel's similarly themed 1975 cult classic ) , and therefore not as entertaining . " Cannonball " is not like " Frankenstein " , the dark hero of " DR2K " - he actually has a sense of decency . As a matter of fact , there actually ARE likable characters in this film - David's younger brother Robert and Belinda Balaski make for a pretty appealing young couple competing in the race . McKinney is enjoyably nasty and Gerrit Graham gets the most laughs as the flamboyant C & W singer Perman Waters , who for some reason is riding in Redman's car . I also enjoyed seeing Mary Woronov and Dick Miller . Most noteworthy about the cast is the variety of directors in cameos , including Bartel himself , Martin Scorsese , Joe Dante , and Jonathan Kaplan . Even Roger Corman makes an appearance . The movie features some of the most hilariously inept fight scenes ever committed to film , a jazzy , upbeat music score , and tons of explosions , especially close to the end . I didn't like the sole black racer being treated as such an embarrassing comic relief character . Seems racist to me . Overall , it's fairly good B-movie entertainment .
Reasonably amusing .	The always entertaining veteran actor Christopher Lloyd plays the Quicksilver of the title . Aaron Quicksilver , to be precise . He's a flamboyant , quirky individual ( check out his man-in-black wardrobe , dog collar and red wig ) who likes to tell bizarre yet cautionary tales to the unaware , in this television movie based on works by Stephen King and Clive Barker . Coming across new bride Olivia ( gorgeous and appealing Missy Crider ) , stranded in the desert with a broken-down car after her husband Kerry ( Raphael Sbarge ) has gone for help , he tells her the story ( this is based on Kings ' story " Chattery Teeth " ) of bar code label and scanner salesman Bill ( Sbarge again ) , who gets menaced by a knife-wielding hitchhiker ( Silas Weir Mitchell ) during a dust storm in the desert , and is saved by a highly unlikely source . In the second segment , Quicksilver , now operating a tent at a carnival , regales pickpocket Charlie ( Matt Frewer ) with the tale ( based on Barkers ' story " The Body Politic " ) of successful plastic surgeon Dr . George ( also played by Frewer ) , whose all-important hands are revolting against him , and intend to rally all other human hands in a rebellion against their owners ! In the hands of writer / producer / director Mick Garris , veteran genre film-maker best known for his frequent King adaptations , horror really takes a back seat to comedy . While there is some undeniable tension , suspense , scares and atmosphere are not really in abundance here . The tone of the project , as Garris himself points out , is much more of a playful one ; any points to be made here ( although there is one fine moment where Quicksilver opines " Does every story have to have a moral point ? " ) are mostly left to the viewer to interpret . There is a sense of fun to the proceedings , all things considered , and there are scenes involving the chattery teeth of the first story and the disembodied hands of the second that have to be seen to be believed . An enjoyable cast gives it all they've got ( Frewers ' highly capable physical comedy calls to mind Bruce Campbells ' work in " Evil Dead 2 " ) ; the excellent Veronica Cartwright and Bill Nunn are fine in support , and there are bits by the likes of Rick Overton , Lin Shaye ( both uncredited ) , and Garris's actress wife Cynthia , with great cameos by Garris's peers John Landis and Barker himself . Well paced , with a fair amount of chuckles to be had , " Quicksilver Highway " is a mildly entertaining lark of a film . Nothing special , but not bad either .
Passable vampire flick .	Elwyn Clayton ( George Zucco ) and Dr . Lloyd Clayton ( Zucco again ) are as different as night and day - an appropriate phrase , since one can exist in the daylight and one can't . The evil Elwyn was an occultist who arises from the dead as a vampire , putting the bite on the local lovely young ladies , including Lloyds ' niece Gayle ( Mary Carlisle ) . Director Sam Newfield , obviously working against a very small budget indeed , does everything he can to give the picture some atmosphere . It's not bad - it starts off well , has some amusing dialog , and delivers some good moments . I particularly enjoyed the fiery climax . However , for a picture running barely over an hour , it's a little slow and there's an awful lot of talking . Overall , it's just a little too familiar and not scary enough for me , but it has a good cast . Zucco is engaging in his dual lead role , Fern Emmett is a riot as an eccentric local , and it's always a bonus to have the delightful Dwight Frye in one of his usual scuzzy roles ( sadly , one of his last ) . Another great character face here is that of Al St . John ; if you're not familiar with it before you watch this , you will be after . As a poverty row variation on the " Dracula " tale , it's an alright if not overly satisfying little horror movie .
Born on the bayou . . .	A variation on " Deliverance " in which the protagonists are a macho unit of the Louisiana National Guard , and the antagonists are nasty Cajuns who take exception when the Guardsmen borrow their canoes ( of course , it doesn't help that one of the Guardsmen fires his blanks at the swamp dudes ) . What results is a fight for survival in an oppressive setting . As a lean , mean action film , this is definitely alright . The protagonists are by and large unlikable and some viewers might feel that everything that they get they deserve . The Cajun hunters are largely kept off-screen and we don't even get to see their faces until near the end , which helps to keep their characters more intriguing and unnerving . The film moves at an acceptable pace and while the lead characters don't evoke a lot of sympathy , their plight makes for some entertaining tension and scenes of action . The cast is a big plus , and I do have to say that the Louisiana swamp setting is an inspired one . The Guardsmen have to find their way out by themselves , with the vegetation so thick that it would make rescue efforts difficult . The finish is actually more subdued than one might expect , although there is some great Cajun music to be heard in the final half hour . Composer / performer Ry Cooder , who has done other work with co-writer / director Walter Hill , has created a music score that is also effective . This film wasn't overtly impressive but it certainly had its assets and it was a reasonably entertaining experience .
Sometimes it really is better to take the long way . Shortcuts = bad idea .	Surprisingly entertaining - if rather derivative - supernatural tale - of federal agents Jack ( Lou Diamond Phillips ) and Stephanie ( Lori Petty ) who snatch back federal witness " Rabbit " ( Steven Williams , who is the main reason to watch this movie ) after he'd previously bolted from his supposed " protection " . Needing to get him back to California on time for his court date , they take a long-abandoned highway - the Route 666 of the title - as a shortcut , not heeding Rabbit's advice to stay the beep away . It seems that the highway is condemned because of the long-ago slaughter of a chain gang , and you get no prizes for guessing that the angry spirits of the prisoners will come back for revenge . Taking an approximately dozen year break since his debut movie , " Scarecrows " ( all he's got between the two gigs is an episode of a TV series ) , William Wesley brought us this movie , which , unlike " Scarecrows " , opts to abandon subtlety and mood , making this more of an incredibly pumped up action thriller ( Does that camera need to shake quite so much ? One might think that the characters had to contend with earthquakes as well ! ) that just happens to feature the supernatural angle . That said , it did get my adrenaline going a little bit , I'll admit , and the performances are generally pretty good . Williams steals all of his scenes , and it helps to have old pros like L . Q . Jones and Dick Miller in other roles . The music is good although it gets a little repetitive after a while , and the widescreen photography ( the film is set in Arizona ) is superb . The movie also has a welcome sense of humor ; not all of the lines worked for me , but the ones that did were pretty amusing ( references are made to Williams ' role on ' The X-Files ' , for example ) . There's no real atmosphere here - it's probably kind of hard to establish a creepy mood in a film that takes place in bright sunlight - although the undead killers look fairly decent and commit some pretty heinous murders . It might be worth checking out for die-hard B-movie buffs , although it doesn't work as well as " Scarecrows " . I liked Williams ' work enough to rate it a little better than average .
It is what it is .	Routine , forgettable , if fairly competent killer insect feature about the creation of hungry cockroaches as part of a dastardly conspiracy . Sexy heroic detective Gina O'Bannon ( Tamara Davies ) teams up with handsome Ted Gage ( Daniel Cosgrove ) , who lost his brother in a suspicious " accident " , to probe the case , but it takes shuffling through the assorted red herrings before finding out who is responsible . What made this rise a little above the norm for me was a good cast , even if it does make waste of some of the performers . ( Tim Thomerson and Grace Zabriskie have disappointingly minor roles , and guest stars Mickey Rourke and Tone Loc have one scene cameos . ) Davies and Cosgrove are decent leads , with Dennis Boutsikaris , Ken Lerner , Scott Rinker , and Brandon Karrer doing fine in support . The special effects are a major drawback . These CGI roaches are not convincing in the slightest , and I honestly felt a little cheated that the filmmakers ' low budget couldn't allow us some nasty looking corpses . There's a rather drab look to the movie , with not a lot in the way of color . This does work for some movies , and it does create a dreary feeling to these proceedings . Neal Acrees ' music is appropriately somber . Ultimately , this movie just doesn't have a whole lot to offer . It's the kind of thing that genre fans have seen before , and will see again . As a standard B bug movie , I found it watchable enough , but no more so . It recycles scenes from other movies - " Last Action Hero " , " Rush Hour " , " Chain Reaction " - as a prime indicator of a pretty low budget . It plods along and just doesn't deliver that well even on a visceral level , what with such bad special effects . The final roach manifestation is good for an amusing gimmick , but the ending is just lame . I won't say that roaches never had it so bad but they've been better utilized before .
Yee-HA ! There's Gold in Them Thar Hills !	Hey , everybody , let's do the Walter Huston dance ! But seriously , this is a silly but entertaining sequel to " City Slickers " that reunites Billy Crystal and Daniel Stern as friends Mitch Robbins and Phil Berquist . One year after the events of the first movie , Mitch finds a treasure map that was sewn inside Curly's cowboy hat . He , Phil , and his ne'er-do-well brother Glen ( Jon Lovitz ) set off on a modern-day search for gold , joined by Curly's devious twin brother Duke ( Jack Palance again ) . There is not a lot of story here , and there are also holes in ( or at least questions about ) the script , but at least it's easy to take , funny , and well-performed . Very nice Utah scenery is very well-photographed . Not as good as the original , but not bad either . I think that fans of these actors will be satisfied . Crystal's daughter Lindsay again appears as Mitch's daughter ; another daughter , Jennifer ( who played Roger Maris ' wife in the cable TV movie , " 61 " , directed by her father ) , appears as a jogger .
A little better than expected .	Low-budget B horror with a no-name cast about a gang of criminals who pull off a heist and abduct a father and daughter who they force to fly them to freedom . One of the group gets the bright idea to make off with the money by himself , forcing the others to land in a desolate rural area to pursue him . They are then stalked and slaughtered by what seem to be some sort of zombie scarecrows . I know , it sounds horrible . But what could have been a monumentally silly misfire is spookier and more atmospheric than one might assume it to be . It's also pretty gory ; I guess a fair bit of the budget went towards the effects . It's fairly subtle ( when it's not being gory ) and has very spare lighting ( although it is never so dark that you can't see what's happening ) . The film-makers manage to keep the scarecrows themselves from being merely laughable , never quite giving us a full shot of the things actually shambling around . The likable actors do well enough for this kind of film , although , curiously , the actress playing the daughter looks to have been dubbed by somebody else . The direction , music , photography , and location filming are fairly decent . It's not completely satisfactory but it's a somewhat amusing film nonetheless . No explanation is ever given ( all the characters can do is speculate ) for the outrageous premise .
Everybody , say it with me . . . KI-KI-KI-MA-MA-MA !	One of the vanguard movies of the slasher sub-genre of horror pictures , this simplistic guilty pleasure has become enduringly popular , spawning a whole slew of sequels and earning legions of fans . Although I can watch it now and not be a bit scared , there's no denying the soft spot I have in my heart for films like this . There's nothing pretentious about it , it's very easy to follow , there's no deep thinking involved , etc . It's just a modest , low-budget little film that stays true to itself . The film opens at Camp Crystal Lake in 1958 . Two horny young counselors are graphically murdered . The film then moves forward 21 years and the camp is being opened by new boss Steve Christy ( Peter Brouwer ) . He's hired several counselors ( two are played by future star Kevin Bacon and Harry Crosby , the son of Bing C . ) and they work at fixing the place up . One young counselor , the pretty Annie ( Robbi Morgan ) never makes it to the camp . She first hitches a ride with a truck driver , and from him both Annie and we in the audience get the history of Camp Crystal Lake . It seems horrible things always seem to happen at this place . The prophecy comes true once again when Annie's second ride chases her into the woods and slits her throat . For the next little while , there are many silly scenes showing the counselors just enjoying themselves while Christy has driven into town for supplies . That night , a horrible storm erupts , and before long , each of the counselors is killed violently . That leaves one survivor , the " nice girl " counselor Alice ( Adrienne King ) who discovers the killer is a Ms . Pamela Voorhees ( Betsy Palmer ) , whose son Jason " drowned " at the camp back in 1957 . She had always blamed her sons ' death on the counselors at the camp , and is determined to punish ANYONE who ever comes there . Alice manages to decapitate the vengeance-seeking old harpy but comes to realize that the son , Jason , could STILL BE OUT THERE . And so ends this memorable slasher picture . The script is very simplistic , Harry Manfredini's music sometimes too reminiscent of Bernard Herrmann's classic shrieking strings from " Psycho " , acting serviceable at best , and suspense rather lacking . Of course , we all know that the trend that this picture truly started was to concentrate on graphic makeup effects in place of genuine scares . Tom Savini's gore is impressive although in reality not as outrageous as some of his other work . Highlights are a spear through the throat , an ax to the face , and the aforementioned decapitation . An enjoyable experience for the dedicated slasher fan , I agree with what another reviewer once said - this is the film that started it all , but it's not necessarily the best one in the series . Any self-respecting slasher fan should check it out at least once . One thing I do realize is that even though it can't match the more classy thrills of , say , " Halloween " or " Psycho " , it is fairly good of its kind . There have been some slasher films made that were genuinely AWFUL , and compared to them , this film ain't so bad . In closing , may I just impart the wise words of Crazy Ralph : " You're doomed . . . you're all doomed . "
Silly , outrageous escapism .	Chevy Chase plays financial publisher Chris Thorne , who does new acquaintance / neighbor Diane Lightson ( Demi Moore ) a favor by driving her from NYC to Atlantic City . Tagging along are Chris's annoying clients the Squiriniszus ( Taylor Negron and Bertila Damas ) . What happens to these hapless schmucks is they get waylaid in an exceptionally freaky way . Chris is busted for a traffic offense and hauled in front of an extremely decrepit and aged reeve , J . P . ( Dan Aykroyd , buried under an impressive makeup job by David Miller ) . When Chris successfully manages to alienate the old guy by getting impatient , he seals his and Diane's fate in a major way . I wouldn't say that this is that successful as a comedy , because I didn't laugh all that much . But I was still entertained to a degree . Aykroyd here made his directorial debut , also writing the screenplay ( based on a story by his brother Peter , who also plays Mike the Doorman ) , and maintains such an off-the-wall sensibility as to make the film amusing in its own way . One can level criticisms at this film that would be hard to argue , but it's hard to deny that it isn't exactly predictable . It creates an incredibly weird environment enhanced by marvelous and detailed production design-art direction-set decoration . J . P . has at his disposal various trapdoors , conveyor belts , and slides , but his crowning glory is his execution device , built like an amusement park ride , that gobbles up transgressors and spits out their bones ( it's even got a cool theme song courtesy of the Damn Yankees ) . It's all highlighted by a show - stopping hip hop number by Digital Underground that inspires J . P . to get his groove on . The humor is enjoyably dark and twisted and it all ends on a very cartoon-like note . The cast gives it a solid effort . Chase is as self-confident a wiseacre as he's ever been , with Moore proving to be reasonably adept at comedy . Aykroyd has a high old time as the demented antagonist ; the film is a good vehicle for both him and co-star John Candy as they both get to play a second role . Candy is in drag for one of his , and is likable as always . Aykroyd gets buried under even more makeup and a full body suit in his second role , as Bobo , one of the two sub-human grandchildren of J . P . I won't say that this is really good at all . But there's enough to take in for me to not just write it off ; it shows some imagination and flair , and even if childish at times ( make note of the look of J . P . ' s nose ) , it's hard not to crack a smile now and then . Look for Daniel Baldwin as a drug dealer and Tupac Shakur as one of the Digital Underground members .
I thought that this thriller was decent enough .	Veteran police detective Edward X . Delaney ( Frank Sinatra , in his last starring role ) hunts down elusive psycho killer Daniel Blank ( David Dukes ) while his fragile wife ( Faye Dunaway ) lies in a hospital bed with a serious illness . Delaney is so distraught over his wife's condition that he starts bending and breaking rules in order to weed out the killer . As far as " Cop Vs . Killer " movies go , this movie is not like more recent studio efforts that put the accent on flash and style and gimmickry . This is more old-fashioned , subtle , character-driven material that I confess to have found a little boring at times but at least it doesn't go out of its way to be sleazy or contrived . Sinatra is quietly authoritative , and some of his supporting players ( James Whitmore , Brenda Vaccaro , and especially Martin Gabel ) do a solid job . I liked Gabel's character , a museum curator bored with his job who enjoys helping Delaney and playing amateur detective . It was good , as always , to see the great character actor Joe Spinell , who starred in the horror sleaze-fest " Maniac " that same year . Dunaway , sadly , is criminally underused in a role that requires her to do next to nothing . While you watch , keep A VERY SHARP EYE out for Bruce Willis ; he plays a non-speaking bit part in his film debut .
A rather amusing obscure slasher item .	" The Forest " features two grown-up couples : Steve ( Dean Russell ) & Sharon ( Tomi Barrett ) and Charlie ( John Batis ) & Teddi ( Ann Wilkinson ) . Steve & Charlie decide that for some R & R they'll go on a camping trip and make the mistake of suggesting to Sharon & Teddi that they wouldn't be able to hack it on such an excursion . So Sharon & Teddi go off on their own camping trip , to be joined by Steve & Charlie later . But they'll all wish they had stayed at home . A demented man named John ( Gary Kent ) is living alone in the wilderness and prays on everyone he comes across . What's more , two children , Jennifer & John Jr . ( Becki Burke & Corky Pigeon ) appear to the victims to offer them assistance . The bad news : slasher fans who crave extreme violence and ample sex & nudity will be disappointed with this one . There's no sex or nudity , and while there is gore , it's used sparingly . The film gets off to a fairly good start with a reasonably well handled stalk ' n ' slash set piece , and delivers some creepy moments , as well as jump scares , but overall the film just isn't too spooky . The overbearing music score and songs also tend to distract from the effectiveness . At the least , writer Evan Jones and director Don Jones ( " Girls in Chains " ) inject a supernatural angle into the plot to keep it somewhat original among slasher fare . The film certainly doesn't play out like the standard slasher film . The forest locations are all used well and the photography is pretty good ( there's some especially good aerial shots ) . The acting is tolerable - for the most part - and some of the characters likable enough . There's one sequence involving the murder of a plumber that comes off as very comedic , but since it definitely feels like this was intentional , it's easy to enjoy . There's one brilliant moment of extreme dark humor wherein Charlie eats something that isn't a doe as John claims . And , finally , it's nice to see a slasher that doesn't revolve around horny , one-dimensional youngsters . It's more notable , I feel , for what it attempts than what it accomplishes . It's not particularly good , but not too bad , either .
Good for a number of laughs .	As part of his " thumb " series of humorous takeoffs , comedy writer / director / actor Steve Oedekerk did this frequently funny spoof of the indie horror sensation " The Blair Witch Project " . An aggressive , ambitious female thumb hooks up with a surfer dude thumb cameraman and a wimpy thumb sound man and hightails it for the woods to investigate the mystery of the " Blair Thumb " . It started off so well - I haven't laughed like that for a while - that it was a little disappointing that this short film didn't maintain the same quota of laughs throughout . I guess I could say that the joke wears thin quicker than I would have liked . That said , there are still enough good lines and moments throughout for me to appreciate it . The vocal performances by Megan Cavanagh , Jim Jackman , and Oedekerk are right on the money , and the direct references to " The Blair Witch Project " hit their targets as well . I liked jokes like the sign that read , " same exact spot " , and lines like " What's the Vic short for ? Victor ? " " No . . . Victim . " Best thing about it is that it can work for you whether you're a fan of the film's target or not . A pretty good comedic short ; I give it .
You gotta see this one to believe it !	A man named Barnstable ( Christopher Brooks ) who represents big mining interests comes to a small town looking to buy up land . But the devious Mayor Silverdale ( Stuart Lancaster ) isn't interested . The unfortunate Barnstable ends up framed for a crime and almost gets lynched . While this is going on , a mutated sheep embryo is being studied by a crackpot local scientist ( E . Kerrigan Prescott ) and it eventually escapes and goes on a rampage . This is like nothing that I've seen before . For low , low budget genre fare , it's really not that badly made . Its plot is actually fairly coherent , and the movie delivers some really intense moments . Writer / producer / director Fredric Hobbs , an artist by trade , also designed the monster , and he gets great use out of his location ( an actual United States historic monument ) . Even the acting isn't that bad ; Brooks and Lancaster in particular stand out . If the sheep monster itself weren't so silly looking ( it's another good candidate for silliest looking movie monster ever ) , this might work even better . Still , it's not in the movie all that much , and its sequences are good for laughs - whether it's sneaking up on kids having a picnic , accidentally leading to the explosion of a gas station , or " dancing " with a crazed hippie girl . It also figures in a small-scale variation on the memorable climax of " King Kong " ! This way-out-there little B flick is worth catching for those cult movie fans who like to seek out particularly obscure stuff . Erica Gavin of " Beyond the Valley of the Dolls " and " Caged Heat " fame has a bit part at the outset .
" I'm gonna keep coming back until someone remembers seeing Richie ! "	Not-bad Steven Seagal vehicle in which he plays a maverick narcotics detective named Gino Felino , who seeks to avenge the death of his partner , which was perpetrated by sleazy barbarian Richie Madano ( an over-acting , but enjoyable , William Forsythe ) . Naturally , Gino will beat the stuffing out of , or kill if need be , anybody stupid enough to impede his progress . Although it's very much a standard , dispensable action movie in terms of the writing , dialog and characters , it's just entertaining enough . It's got enough hard-hitting violence ( maybe even more than you might expect - one thug gets a cleaver in the hand and another gets part of his leg blown off ; that's in addition to all the bone-breaking ) to qualify as a decent , visceral experience . The funny thing about the climax is that for all his coke-snorting , Richie is still basically a graceless , overweight slob who gets clobbered pretty effortlessly . The result is a final showdown that's hilariously one-sided ! Seagal , even with his rather limited acting chops , basically gets the job done , although it goes without saying that a viewer may wish that the monologues would end more quickly and the film would get back to the blood-letting . The late Jerry Orbach plays Seagal's briefly seen superior , and Gina Gershon plays Richie's sister . In small roles you can see the likes of Julianna Margulies ( ' E . R . ' ) , Dominic Chianese ( ' The Sopranos ' ) , and if you pay really close attention , you can glimpse John Leguizamo in a montage about 39 minutes in . Seagal also produced and even co-wrote and co-produced what would seem to be the film's theme song , " Don't Stand In My Way " , a hard rocking tune sung by Gregg Allman . There's also the appropriate inclusion of the Beastie Boys tune " No Sleep Till Brooklyn " , which I liked as well . It's just simple , straightforward , sadistic fun . Just turn your brain off and enjoy watching the bad guys get what they've got coming .
More like " Dracula Has Risen from the Grave AGAIN " .	The famed cinematic blood sucker ( Christopher Lee ) is revived and because a monsignor ( Rupert Davies ) has seen to it that he can't get back inside his castle , he's mad enough to go about seeking revenge as well as doing what he does best . Pretty standard Hammer horror . " Dracula Has Risen from the Grave " is made with style , and creates the appropriate amount of atmosphere and menace . Veteran , talented , and award-winning cinematographer and director Freddie Francis does a creditable job with what I think is actually kind of a routine script . As always , I found the stand-out elements to include James Bernard's ominous music score , the lavish sets , and Christopher Lee's performance . The movie actually features two climactic showdowns with Dracula , and they are both entertaining . In addition to Lee , Davies is solid and reliable as the monsignor , and other good supporting performances are by Barbara Ewing , Michael Ripper , and Ewan Hooper ( who was actually dubbed ) . Veronica Carlson is beautiful as the monsignor's victimized niece . Not great but not bad either .
Pretty routine made-for-TV horror , but watchable enough .	Two easygoing chaps played by Howard Hesseman and Tom Atkins purchase some coffee beans in Ecuador which they hope will make them lots of money back in the States . They unexpectedly get a little more in the bargain - some banana spiders ( not true tarantulas , as the later exposition will point out ) hitch a ride , and after putting the bite on the passengers , sink their fangs into pilot Atkins , causing the plane to crash near a tiny California town named Finleyville . Wouldn't you know it , the tarantulas survive the crash unharmed , and escape to the nearby orange processing plant , where many of the townsfolk - including fire chief Claude Akins , doctor Pat Hingle , and greedy , stupidly stubborn mayor / plant boss Bert Remsen - band together to stop the infestation . There isn't a whole lot of fun to be had watching this film , provided you aren't too demanding and haven't already had your fill of better arachnids-on-the-loose thrillers like " Kingdom of the Spiders " ( released to theaters the same year that this aired ) and " Arachnophobia " . It's not as if it's badly made or anything , but it's definitely lacking in any potent or memorable scares or suspense . A film of this kind should at least be squirm-inducing to some degree , but I didn't even find the spiders themselves that creepy . The film-makers get some credit for showing us how dead serious the situation is by taking the unexpected step of killing off a young boy , but otherwise this film is a little on the bland side , and even the climax isn't as exciting or suspenseful as it ought to be . Still watchable , thanks to some of the performances and the fairly steady pace , it entertains without really impressing . You could do worse , though .
Axel's Looking For A Killer . . . What Else Is New ?	Axel Foley ( Eddie Murphy ) is supervising a bust in Detroit that goes horribly wrong when his longtime superior ( Gil Hill ) is gunned down . His search for the killer leads him back - once again - to Beverly Hills . It seems that the security at a Disneyland-like theme park are creating counterfeit money right in the bowels of the park , and Ellis DeWald ( Timothy Carhart ) , the super-obnoxious creep in charge of these thugs , was the one who murdered Axel's boss back in Detroit . This movie goes off in a different direction than the first two ; it concentrates a lot more on action and thrills than comedy , with not very many laughs . I still like it because it is rousing and because the villains are enjoyably despicable . There's only one sequence that I thought was on the dull side . A couple of things , though : Why did the screenwriters keep making Axel's friend Billy Rosewood ( Judge Reinhold ) dumber and dumber with each new entry in the series ? It seems that Inspector Todd ( Axel's boss ) has mellowed a bit , doesn't it ? When I see him in the movie , he doesn't appear overly angry or hostile . There's John Travolta's brother Joey as one of Axel's Detroit colleagues . I'm sorry , but I think that he's just going to be known for being a sibling of a famous person .
Not bad .	Everybody , take note . Electricity is evil and it's out to get us . That seems to be the main theme of this little known 1980's thriller about appliances going haywire in the home of Bill Rockland ( Cliff De Young ) and his new wife Ellen ( Roxanne Hart ) , just as Bill's son David ( Joey Lawrence ) from his first marriage arrives for a visit . Writer / director Paul Golding has fashioned a movie that goes for suspense and chills , albeit the watered-down , PG-13 rated variety . The special effects are fine , and there are genuinely tense moments . The cast perform well ( although Bill is the kind of character in this kind of film who takes a while to wise up to his situation ) and the music was appropriate . In this film , we really aren't given a definitive answer WHY any of this is happening . An aura of mystery can sometimes work in a film's favor ( a good case in point would be the original " Halloween " , where John Carpenter and Debra Hill never clued us in to Michael Myers ' motivation ) , so this movie would have more of an edge than a film that would tend to spell everything out for the viewer . Overall , I didn't find it to be wholly satisfying , but it was reasonably well-made and it does offer an alternative to blood-and-guts type horror films , if you're looking for something different . And since it's a PG-13 film , you'd be able to watch it with your older kids if they're interested .
Any film featuring Jackie Chiles and Lloyd Braun has to bear some looking into . . .	That's right , the actors playing those roles on ' Seinfeld ' - Phil Morris and Matt McCoy - are in this hokey , predictable , and ultimately routine B-level monster movie ( originally a Sci-Fi channel entry ) . McCoy plays Preston Rogers , rendered a paraplegic after a fatal climbing accident that took the life of his wife . Now he's a traumatized individual , who , " Rear Window " style , witnesses horrifying Bigfoot attacks while confined to his wheelchair . Eventually he has to get pro-active but not before a number of dumb people perish . This movie boasts an impressive enough cast to warrant some interest for the genre fan : McCoy is supported by such familiar faces as Lance Henriksen , Jeffrey Combs , Rex Linn , and Dee Wallace Stone . The acting is generally good although it's disappointing to see some of these people get so little to do ( although Combs creates a great weirdo with his little role ) . The late Paul Gleason , in his last role , plays a grumpy , wisecracking rural sheriff , but he doesn't get a whole lot of screen time , either . Christien Tinsley , the man behind the creature and makeup effects , also was able to get himself a major supporting role in the film as the character Otis , and , despite not being a professional actor , does give good a-hole as a character who spends most of his screen time getting the audience to hate him until he ( fatally ) redeems himself late in the film , leading to what I think is the movie's greatest money shot . ( The creature itself , played by veteran monster portrayer Mike Deak , looks too silly to be taken seriously once we finally get to actually see it . ) Overall , it's fair entertainment , maybe even a little better than what I might have expected , given that the filmmakers seem to be genuinely trying to create real fear and tension . The late Neal Fredericks ( he died in an airplane crash in 2004 , making this one of his last gigs ) , cinematographer of " The Blair Witch Project " , does a good job of shooting the picture . It also features a decent scary music score by none other than Lalo Schifrin - which is not such a coup when you learn that he's the writer / director's father . One memorable death has one of the attractive young bimbos next door basically broken in half so she can be yanked out a small window . It's amusing to see , but I can't forget that I've seen something like this before - in the 1988 remake of " The Blob " . An okay way to kill just over an hour and a half , but remember : keep those expectations low and it'll be easier to not be disappointed . And one more thing before I go : someone else here said that the final shot is hilarious in its ' B-level brilliance , and I can definitely agree with that notion !
I Didn't Feel Grumpy Watching This . . .	John Gustafson ( Jack Lemmon ) and Max Goldman ( Walter Matthau ) are lifelong neighbors and acquaintances who have been at each other's throats for a couple of decades . Their feud escalates when both show interest in the attractive , free-spirited widow ( Ann-Margret ) who has moved into the neighborhood . Not exactly spectacular , but likable and easy-to-take , comedy with some serious moments , this gets its points due mainly to an excellent cast - with longtime movie co-stars Lemmon and Matthau inhabiting their roles well , and being supported by some impressive co-stars . Movie's biggest draw is watching veteran Burgess Meredith ( as Lemmon's dad ) genially hamming it up as a randy old man who clearly loves sexual double entendres . The end-credits , which include out-takes , are worth sticking around for .
Entertaining but not as much fun as it probably should have been .	Vietnam veteran Frank Murphy ( Roy Scheider ) is now a police helicopter pilot who is chosen to test an experimental aircraft better suited to air assaults than simple surveillance . He butts heads with Colonel F . E . Cochrane ( Malcolm McDowell ) , the film's obligatory villain , a snide and pompous jerk , while breaking in new partner Richard Lymangood ( Daniel Stern ) . Passable action yarn has an exceptionally good cast . I miss seeing Scheider in leading roles , and Warren Oates , while under utilized as the standard-issue Yelling Superior , brings real professionalism to his scenes ( unfortunately , this turned out to be one of his last roles ) . Stern and Candy Clark are definitely likable in their roles . The film , directed by mainstream action specialist John Badham , moves well and is reasonably slick , and Arthur B . Rubinstein's electronic music score is decent , but there are fundamental problems . It ultimately becomes nonsensical , with an absurd climactic dogfight and a silly resolution . The characters are not really fleshed out , and the supposed vendetta that Cochrane has with Murphy is ridiculous considering that it's never really explained ( not to my satisfaction , anyway ) . Government misuse of military power is certainly a valid issue to address , but this film doesn't do it enough justice . The highlight for me was seeing Candy Clark's reckless drive to deliver an incriminating tape to a TV station . Followed by a short-lived TV series with James Farentino , Dana Carvey , Bubba Smith , and Dick Butkus .
I kind of liked it .	Brad Dourif plays Sam , who is suffering the lingering effects of the atomic testing that his parents subjected themselves to in the 1950's . He is constantly emanating fire and electricity , especially when he's REALLY mad at someone , and the more it happens , the more of a toll that it takes on his body . Mediocre horror movie / conspiracy thriller ( with characters who you should automatically be able to figure out are the villains ) is a fairly well made but uninspired picture by genre veteran Tobe Hooper . Dourif is just as intense as always , although for me the fact that his character is screwy from the start , even before the awful things start happening , detracts from whatever sympathy I had for him . Cynthia Bain is adequately appealing as his love interest . The screenplay itself , co-written by Hooper , is muddled at times ; for example , what's with the character of Amy Whitaker and what's her relevance to anything ? The movie itself gets intense and brutal at times , with decent pyrotechnics and effects , although what I liked best about it was the music score by New Zealand-born Graeme Revell ; this was his first score for an American film . The supporting cast was fine ; there is an especially great cameo appearance by John Landis . Mildly entertaining but forgettable film ; certainly not Hooper's best but might not be his worst ( I should see more of his films from the last decade and a half or so before passing that judgment ) .
Mac isn't torturing stupid adult criminals this time . . . he's taken it a step further .	Admittedly unpleasant by nature , this film has " Home Alone " star Macaulay Culkin as Henry , a pre-teen sociopath untroubled by conscience . His cousin Mark ( Elijah Wood ) , already an emotional wreck over the premature death of his mother , has come to stay with Henry's family while his father is away on business . Only Mark gets to see what a demonic little creep Henry is , as he seems to everybody else on the planet to be the perfect angel-faced little kid . Just a passable little thriller , an adequate time-filler at best . The major difference is having children as the protagonist and antagonist , and the film is quick to point out the fact this sometimes inherent distrust that parents and other authority figures have of children ; how they are so quick to disbelieve or dismiss whatever a child has to say . In fact , you could look at this as being a child's eye point-of-view of a thriller type story . Most of the adults are in the background , with little to do except look concerned . Wendy Crewson's role as the mother / aunt is a little more pronounced , as she becomes something of a surrogate mother to Mark and eventually wises up to the true nature of her own son . Elijah Wood is the real young star here ; I think that he has the better role , and , in my own opinion , gives the better performance . If his role weren't likable or sympathetic enough , this may have been harder to sit through . Culkin just kind of does okay as the diminutive villain . The ending is not just contrived , it is downright ugly , leaving a bad taste in the mouth as the film draws to a close . I liked some of the acting , and despite the film's flaws , it is still technically well made . The photography is impressive at capturing the landscape . Two other Culkins can be seen , as Macaulay's sister Quinn plays his character's sister , and younger brother Rory can be glimpsed in a photograph .
I enjoyed it somewhat .	The scenario here is very familiar to any horror fan . Brutal murders plague a college campus , and the aged local sheriff is under pressure to find the perpetrator since election time is coming up . The killer always removes different body parts ( shades of " Blood Feast " ) and leaves a little talisman behind that does provide the sheriff with some sort of clue . " Blood Cult " is noteworthy for being one of the earliest films to be shot on tape , and made specifically for the home video market . The idea was that the film-makers would use the technology of TV productions and try to make their product look like an actual film . Now , while it may give off an obvious feeling of amateurism and a very low budget , I didn't find it all that terrible . The acting isn't as atrocious as I would have expected ; at least Charles Ellis as perplexed and harried sheriff Ron and Juli Andelman as his daughter Tina come off as fairly likable . It does manage to create some reasonably creepy scenes . ( I'm referring to the actual blood cult scenes in the woods ; these come off pretty well . ) It certainly does wear influences such as " Halloween " ( naturally ) right on its sleeve . And , fortunately , it does go for a camp quality at times that helps and shows the film-makers aren't taking themselves too seriously . The Midwest location ( this was shot in Tulsa , Oklahoma ) gives it some sense of local flavor . And the gore is better than could be expected for such a cheaply made item . The " big " final plot twist advertised on the back on the DVD was no great surprise , however . Director Christopher Lewis ( the son of actress Loretta Young ) would make a follow-up titled " Revenge " the following year , featuring no-one less than John Carradine in one of the leads . As far as very inexpensive , regional genre film-making goes , I thought it was reasonably entertaining . It's not really anything special , but undemanding die-hard fans of horror might find it amusing to some degree .
I wonder what would happen if you played the movie backward ?	Hip , clever horror movie that exploits the concept of satanic messages contained on rock recordings . Here , put-upon nerd / heavy metal enthusiast Eddie Weinbauer ( Marc Price , a . k . a . Skippy from ' Family Ties ' ) plays the unreleased final album from recently deceased rock star Sammi Curr ( the late Tony Fields ) . In doing so , he resurrects the nasty psychopath , who it turns out is out to kill everybody on Planet Earth . Overall , the movie is reasonably entertaining . It's not a masterpiece of the genre but neither is it an embarrassment . The film is well cast , and the actors all do a decent job ( Fields offers a campy bad guy performance and is pretty amusing ) and the soundtrack enjoyable - much of the rock music is done by the group " Fastway " . The special effects are OK but really nothing special . Film's biggest draw is really its stunt casting , with real-life rock stars Gene Simmons ( of " KISS " ) as a deejay and Ozzy Osbourne as an ultra-conservative preacher crusading against rock and roll . Film marked the directorial debut for Charles Martin " Terry the Toad " Smith , who also appears on screen as " Mr . Wimbley . " At this time , I would just like to add something for fans of movie errors : at one point the boom mike drops right into view ! I also was not aware that the guy ( Glen Morgan ) who plays Roger , Eddie's closest thing to a friend , is the same guy who's had a successful career as a writer in this kind of genre fare , with credits ranging from ' The X-Files ' to " Final Destination " to " Willard " ( 2003 ) . As a matter of fact , Morgan and his sometime writing partner , James Wong , did uncredited work on this script .
Decent murder mystery .	After his niece dies in the hospital , devoted Uncle Cam ( Joseph Cotten ) comes to learn that she was a victim of strychnine poisoning . The one person with the most motive and opportunity is the girls ' stepmother , Lynne ( Jean Peters ) , but proving her to be the guilty party is an arduous process to say the least . Although ultimately a rather forgettable thriller , it's reasonably engrossing and well-made with a solid cast also including Gary Merrill , Jack Kruschen , and a highly animated Catherine MacLeod . It does a good job of having us doubt the lead characters ' convictions as well as to whether Lynne is actually guilty . It's a tightly paced film clocking in at a mere 77 minutes , and while the plot may not be airtight , it's entertaining enough to maintain interest . The best sequence occurs near the end in a confrontation between Cotten and Peters , which doesn't quite pay off the way that we think it will . It throws more doubt at the viewer for a last-ditch touch of ambiguity . I liked this little picture well enough ; while not destined to be a classic in any way , shape , or form , it's just fine for what it is .
Easy money . . . yeah right !	Likable working-class slob Monty Capuletti ( Rodney Dangerfield , in his first starring role ) has many bad habits . However , when his stiff and humorless mother-in-law leaves him an inheritance that depends on his kicking his bad habits for a year , he decides he will do his best to change . Nothing great , but a decent , respectable , and sometimes funny comedy that provides enough laughs to be maybe a little better than average . It is a good vehicle for Rodney as well as a good vehicle for Joe Pesci ( playing Monty's best friend Nicky ) . Sometimes slowed down by some scenes that aren't as funny ( like the scenes involving Monty's daughter's new husband and his sidekick ) and sometimes a little silly , but overall it was fairly entertaining . Noted violin player Lili Haydn plays Monty's younger daughter , and a pre - " Ferris Bueller " Jeffrey Jones plays a pompous and sleazy relative who stands to inherit the money if Monty isn't able to follow through . Harmless 96-minute diversion .
Acceptable fare , I think , for fans of Charles Bronson .	Charles Bronson vehicle in which he once again plays a standard issue Bronson character - this time , he's the boss of a Border Patrol station who's looking for a thug with an itchy trigger finger ( Ed Harris , in his first major film role ) who's killed both a comrade of Bronson's and an innocent kid . The movie itself is nothing special - certainly watchable , competently if not stylishly made , but it moves well enough , and it tackles the still quite relevant topic of illegal immigration but does so without hammering the audience over the head about it . Top-notch supporting cast really helps , with a good assortment of really first-rate actors , although one of the best roles of the film actually goes to Karmin Murcelo , as the grief-stricken mother of the dead kid who reluctantly gives Bronson assistance in his investigation . Harris also gives a hint of his solid work to come in the years ahead . There have been better Bronson vehicles than this but there have also been worse . I liked it well enough .
Not entirely successful , but an interesting effort overall .	An offbeat horror film that I would describe as a supernatural slasher , we see at the outset two young children witnessing their mother having kinky sex . The brutish lover then proceeds with what seems to be his habit - tying the son to his bed , in a really disturbing touch for the film . The sister uses a good and large kitchen knife to untie her brother , and bro goes ahead and stabs the lover to death . Twenty years later , the brother , Willy ( Nicholas Love ) , is a mute and the sister , Lacey , is a gorgeous young wife and mother ( played by the directors ' ex-wife , Suzanna Love ) ; they all live on a farm with an elderly aunt and uncle . Lacey is having nightmares about the lover . Attempting to exorcise her demons by returning to her childhood home , she destroys the mirror that once reflected the grisly murder . In so doing , she sets the rest of the movie in motion , as the shards now have the ability to bring about death to anyone in the vicinity . It's a film that gets off to a good start , and director Ulli Lommel ( also the writer and producer ) maintains a solemn and vaguely ominous mood throughout . He's helped in this regard by a pretty good music score by Tim Krog . However , this doesn't change the fact that the film is short on real scares . It moves slowly at first , saving its best moments for the second half of the film . Then it gets more interesting . There's some decent gore and some cheesy but enjoyable visual effects ; the climax is a guilty pleasure , but is the best part of the film . The acting is standard for the genre ; not inspired , but it gets the job done . A prominent supporting role , of a helpful psychiatrist , is played by the legendary John Carradine , who actually refrains from hamming it up , and is pretty effective in his brief time on screen . I wouldn't consider this that good a film myself , but it's not all that bad either . It has its moments . As B level horror goes , it's perfectly acceptable entertainment . Two trivia notes . . . Suzanna and Nicholas Love are real life brother and sister as well , and Suzannas ' connections are what helped obtain the financing for her ex-husbands ' films . Some clips were recently utilized for the documentary " Going to Pieces : The Rise and Fall of the Slasher Film " .
Okay for what it is .	Jim Wynorski directed this remake of a 1957 Roger Corman flick in which a " Mr . Johnson " ( Arthur Roberts ) , really an alien being with killer eyes , arrives on Earth to collect blood for the dying population of his war-torn home planet . He recruits an affable human slimeball named Jeremy ( Lenny Juliano ) as a personal assistant to handle various duties , and hires sexy nurse Nadine Story ( Traci Lords , here making her big leap to mainstream movies after her stint as a prominent under-age porno actress ) to administer blood transfusions on a daily basis . There's one good thing about Wynorski movies : there are no artistic pretensions of any kind that I can sense ; they're just straightforward , sleazy fun . While many viewers may understandably bemoan the fact that our vivacious star doesn't disrobe as often as might be expected , there's still plenty of female flesh and bouncing breasts on display . Rebecca Perle , Roxanne Kernohan , and Becky LeBeau , among others , deliver the goods and then some in this regard . As for the movie itself , the plot ( what there is of it ) is actually not too bad . It's a fairly well paced movie that is over pretty quick . It goes without saying that it's very cheesy , but that is part of its mild charm . As one of his several projects for Roger Corman , Wynorski is able to utilize ample stock footage from the New World catalog , especially during the opening credits sequence . Lords does a respectable job as the heroine , Roberts is amusingly deadpan as the unemotional alien , with Juliano and Roger Lodge ( as Lords's boyfriend ) offering likable supporting performances . Wynorski regulars like Ace Mask and Kelli Maroney are fun as well , although gorgeous Monique Gabrielle is wasted and completely unrecognizable in a very brief and highly offbeat cameo . Michael Delano , as the vacuum salesman , was most amusing in the way that he reminded me of longtime Corman regular Dick Miller ! " Not of this Earth " is a fairly engaging and fun bit of schlock ; if you're partial to this sort of thing , you may enjoy it .
So-So .	Romantic comedy that combines a bunch of jokes about the process of promoting a movie , and a conventional romantic plot . Lee ( Billy Crystal ) is hired to persuade broken-up couple ( John Cusack and Catherine Zeta-Jones ) to appear together in order to generate audience goodwill . It seems the last film they did together is being kept hidden by the film's director ( a weird guy played by who else but Christopher Walken ) , and something has to be done to keep the potential viewers happy . This also involves Zeta-Jones's long-suffering sister / assistant ( Julia Roberts ) and her new lover ( Hank Azaria ) . People who appreciate all the Hollywood jokes might like this more than others , because , frankly , the romantic part of the film is rather predictable . The cast makes it worthwhile , at least . Although I was annoyed quickly by Hank Azaria's character ( and the actor's bad attempt at a Spanish accent ) . Alan Arkin is hilarious as Cusack's " wellness guide . " Not bad , not great either . My rating is .
Yet another fatal trek into the woods . . .	1970's era , Canadian-made horror / suspense yarn , in the tradition of " Deliverance " , in which five doctors go on a wilderness vacation and are stalked by a backwoods maniac . Shot in Ontario , the movie does have good shots of the Canadian countryside . For me , it never generated any real fear , just some moderate unease and tension . There are memorable images , like the hideous head-on-a-stick gag and the faraway silhouette of the killer on a hillside . The five doctors are not particularly worth rooting for , with the possible exception of Hal Holbrook's Harry ( he's good as always ) ; they spend too much time complaining and sniping at each other . The finale isn't bad but it also goes on a little too long . What kind of hurt it for me was the bad quality of the picture ; it's too hard to see much in the night-time scenes . This is probably an indicator of a low budget . It's surprisingly subtle in terms of violence ; there's not much gore to be seen despite such things as a leg caught in a bear trap and another leg slashed with a knife . This was the first film gig for Carl Fullerton , who went on to work on movies like " Friday the 13th " parts two and three , " Wolfen " , and " The Hunger " . Nice music by Hagood Hardy . Co-star Lawrence Dane , who plays Mitzi , was a producer . I will probably watch this again someday if it comes out on DVD in a better presentation than the bargain-basement version currently available . It may not be too original , or have a lot of depth , but it's an entertaining-enough little movie . Also known as " The Creeper " .
At the very least , the film does have a good poster .	Veteran actress Lee Grant portrays Deborah Ballin , an outspoken TV journalist who incurs the wrath of scowling , misogynistic psychopath Colt Hawker ( Michael Ironside ) . Colt tries to murder Deborah in her own home , and when he isn't able to pull it off , tracks her down to the hospital where she has been taken , and proceeds to kill everybody in his way as he determines to finish her off once and for all . A polished , good-looking major studio ( in this case 20th Century Fox ) killer-on-the-loose thriller , it's easy to write this off as a slasher with big-name stars . It doesn't necessarily go for credibility - for example , how is it that Colt can enter and exit this hospital at will under all manner of guises ? It's more of a visceral experience , with some decent jolts and scenes of suspense . The hospital setting automatically brings to mind comparisons with the previous year's " Halloween II " . The movie does get gorier than some viewers may be prepared to tolerate ; to that end , it is a product of the times when slasher movies were in vogue . Ironside , always one of the greatest " bad guy " actors in the business , brings ferocity to his role , and it does help that his character's dialog is very limited ( his first appearance on screen is a real stunner ) . Grant is professional and believable , although I couldn't believe that her character wouldn't be tougher or try to fight back more after what we've already learned about her . Linda Purl is cute and very likable as a too-good-to-be-true nurse who really does seem to have the proverbial " heart of gold " . And the one and only William Shatner has a handful of scenes as Grant's boss and lover , although he ultimately doesn't have a lot to do . Slasher fans will note the presence of Lenore Zann of " Happy Birthday to Me " , cast here as a one night stand of Ironside's who ends up striking back at him for his brutal treatment of her . " Visiting Hours " doesn't really rise above the norm for its type of film ( although I did like it that the psycho was given some kind of actual motivation ) , but the cast , the direction , and Jonathan Goldsmith's effective music score do work in its favor . It's watchable if sometimes plodding . The screenplay is by veteran genre writer Brian Taggert ( " Of Unknown Origin " , " Poltergeist III " , " Omen IV " , etc . ) .
An amiable little diversion .	From producer Robert E . Kent and director Edward L . Cahn , the team responsible for the sci-fi flick " It ! The Terror from Beyond Space " , comes this short , sweet , forgettable , but amusing minor sci-fi horror flick . Alien attackers come to Earth from the moon , with complete domination in mind . That's the familiar part of this movie . The twist here is that they can't be seen by the naked eye , preferring to take over and manipulate dead human bodies ( making this an interesting precursor to " Night of the Living Dead " ) . Jut-jawed military man John Agar , scientists Philip Tonge and Robert Hutton , with Tonges ' daughter Jean Byron in tow , have to figure out the intruders ' weakness and exploit it before the entire planet is devastated . I have to admit , I enjoyed this one to a degree . As low-budget 1950's era genre fare goes , it's passably entertaining . The pacing is a little slow ( which is saying something , since the movie is only an hour and eight minutes long ) and like many other movies of its type , there's a lot of exposition ( not to mention the ongoing presence of a narrator ) to listen to . The special effects actually aren't too bad , and the music was appropriate enough . The always engaging John Agar makes for a stolid and reliable hero , with Tonge ( who unfortunately died before the release of the movie ) standing out among the small supporting cast . John Carradine makes a very welcome cameo appearance as the first to be resurrected , with his booming voice heard through the balance of the movie as the voice of the alien intelligence . ( Writer Samuel Newman had also incorporated the name of his character , Karol Noymann , into his script for the earlier " The Giant Claw " . ) My favorite bit : a joke in which the front page of a newspaper cries : " First photo of Invisible Invader " , and of course the page is blank . It's a little too bad that more humor couldn't have been injected into the movie - it's played very straight-faced - but I liked the joke all the same . If you're like me and are partial to these cheesy little flicks to begin with , you might be able to have fun watching it . Whatever its flaws , it does at least do ( for me , anyway ) what it's supposed to do : it entertains .
Clearly wants to be more than a simple monster movie .	After hearing about a ferocious , enormous crocodile in Burundi , Africa , which has claimed hundreds of lives and has been dubbed " Gustave " by the locals , a small American news crew arrives , accompanied by a croc-loving bloke who wants to capture it alive , and a guide who wants it dead . Interesting , misleading marketing campaign aside , " Primeval " is a fair enough movie of its kind . Technically well made , dazzlingly shot ( making full use of the great scenery ) , and well paced , it manages to create some genuine tension and atmosphere . The croc itself is entirely a CGI product , and while some of its scenes are unconvincing , some work out a little better . At the least , the film-makers do their job of creating a constant sense of danger for our protagonists . The croc doesn't play as big a part in this as one might think ; this particular monster movie is often in the service of making a larger statement on the political turmoil and brutality of the region . This movie being inspired by real-life events , the croc here is the product of human error . The combination of a tried-and-true creature feature with a political thriller makes for an offbeat mix , to say the least . The acting is none too special here . We've a standard-issue hunky , brooding hero ( Dominic Purcell ) , a hottie colleague ( Brooke Langton ) , and a comedy relief character ( Orlando Jones ) who has some good moments but also some decidedly anti-P . C . lines . Veteran Jurgen Prochnow is wasted in his role as the guide , with Gabriel Malema likable as Jojo . The movie itself is not really bad , nor all that good either . We've seen movies like this before , and will undoubtedly continue to see them . It entertains well enough , but is pretty forgettable in the end .
Five for the movie , an extra point for Kari Wuhrer .	Thoroughly average but basically watchable thriller about young wife Ann ( Kari Wuhrer ) , whose husband commits suicide after being passed over for a promotion that he badly needed . Ann decides to save the bulk of her wrath for the career woman , Nicole ( Barbara Crampton ) who inherited her late husband's job . She connives her way into Nicole's household by murdering their housekeeper , Karina ( Peggy Trentini ) and setting herself up to take Karina's place . She ingratiates herself with most of the family , even going so far as to seduce both husband and son ( at least she kept it in the family ) . Although it's got enough goofs to push credibility past the breaking point , I found it entertaining . Not good at all , but entertaining . It's at least a very sexy film ; the sex scenes and nudity are a prime asset . Director Jim Wynorski , using his pseudonym Jay Andrews , at least keeps that asset prominent and moves his trashy , melodramatic , ridiculous " The Hand That Rocks the Cradle " variation along at a respectable clip . The actors fill out their roles adequately enough , and it's all a fair bit of sleazy fun . That's provided one can turn off their brain before watching , granted , but it's possible to be amused by the whole thing . As a vehicle for the stunning Wuhrer , it's a success on that term . She's very easy to watch throughout . It's also nice to see Wynorski and Crampton working together several years after the film " Chopping Mall " . I had a good enough time watching this one .
Here is " White Man From Canada " ' s review . . .	Billy Halleck ( Robert John Burke ) is a grossly overweight Maine attorney who is also a smug jerk because he's so successful . However , his life takes a turn for the worse when he runs down an elderly Romanian gypsy woman in the street . Billy's judge ( John Horton ) and cop ( Daniel Von Bargen ) friends cover up for him and he escapes unpunished . This infuriates the woman's REALLY ancient father ( Michael Constantine of " My Big Fat Greek Wedding " ) and he curses Billy with rapid and dramatic weight loss no matter how much he eats . Very mild horror drama - this is reasonably entertaining but no more . What made it above average for me were the incredible makeup effects , supervised by two-time Oscar winner Greg Cannom , and the excellent performances , especially by Burke , who clearly is a real trouper . The story is very grim and downbeat - don't go in expecting any light-hearted moments or comic relief . It's also very mean-spirited in the end ; I will leave it at that and say no more ( however , there seems to a lapse of logic here that I say needs explaining ) . Based on yet another Stephen King novel , who originally wrote it using the pseudonym " Richard Bachman " . King has his standard-issue cameo , which thankfully isn't too hammy . Both the video and DVD feature an entertaining behind-the-scenes look at the creation of the makeup effects .
Offbeat B-level vampire movie .	Good-looking young couple Lee ( Michael Blodgett ) and Susan ( Sherry Miles ) accept an invitation from brand-new acquaintance Diane ( Celeste Yarnall ) to stay at Dianes ' home in the desert . Diane reveals herself to be vampire-like in nature , although this movie plays out more like a variation on a vampire story rather than a traditional one . Victims don't become vampires themselves , our antagonist is not averse to sunlight , and so on . The desolate rural landscape is a refreshingly different environment in which to place this tale . To that end , cinematographer Daniel Lacambre gives it a nice sun-baked look . For a movie with a low budget ( from Roger Cormans ' company New World ) , director Stephanie Rothman , who co-wrote this script , infuses it with this constant weird and fairly haunting atmosphere . It's further enhanced by the music by Roger Dollarhide and Clancy B . Grass III , and that's not to mention some effective dream sequences . It feels as if Rothman and crew were trying to make this as " arty " as far as low-budget horror goes . The sexual content is fairly strong , as the very attractive Yarnall displays obvious desire for both her male and female house guests . Blodgett ( who resembles Eric Stoltz quite a bit ) of " Beyond the Valley of the Dolls " fame and Miles aren't terribly dynamic leads here ( especially Miles ) , leaving it up to Yarnall to give the movie some sort of anchor . She certainly does seem to be enjoying herself . The cast also includes Gene Shane , Jerry Daniels , Sandy Ward , and Robert Tessier . Leading to a not-bad chase sequence , a very unconventional dispatch for our sultry blood sucker , and a not unexpected downbeat final twist , " The Velvet Vampire " ranks as one of the more off-kilter " erotic vampire " movies of the 1970's .
" I'm From L . A . . . . We Invented Gangs ! "	Slick , chaotic , and decently entertaining sequel picks up where the first movie left off . LAPD Detective James Carter ( Chris Tucker ) is on vacation in Hong Kong with his friend , Detective Inspector Lee ( Jackie Chan ) . Carter just wants to relax , have fun , get some " mu shu " , but Lee can't stop doing his job even for a minute . This time , he's hot on the trail of gangster Ricky Tan ( John Lone ) , who may have been behind an Embassy bombing . More-of-the-same in terms of content AND style , but still pretty engaging , with lots of action and thrills . Chan and Tucker still share the same chemistry , and overall there are some good laughs . ( Worth it just to see Tucker perform Michael Jackson's " Don't Stop Til You Get Enough " . . . ) For me , one of the perks of this sequel is watching " Crouching Tiger , Hidden Dragon " beauty Zhang Ziyi as a very fetching and lethal assassin . I liked it .
Fairly entertaining if forgettable witch's curse story .	Standard plot of three women , accused of being witches , who are executed in various ways - eaten alive by pigs , strapped to a wheel that is then set on fire and rolled along , and then finally just burned at the stake . The last woman proceeds to place a curse on the town of Devonsville . Three hundred years later to the day , three new young women show up in the town . And the ultra - conservative townsfolk who absolutely refuse to let the past go become convinced that these three must be the reincarnations of the witches from before . Jenny ( Suzanna Love ) takes center stage as the attractive new school teacher with the unflattering haircut who encounters various townsfolk and stirs things up . I didn't think it was such a bad film . It's a very serious , creepy and atmospheric horror film in a good remote rural setting . The balance of the film may not measure up to the opening sequence , but it does capture a feeling of old-fashioned , small-town paranoia . This leads to a finale illustrating the nature of history repeating itself when people cannot learn from their mistakes . The movie may be a little light on real horror ( save for an amusing finale that does indeed lift from " Raiders of the Lost Ark " ) , but there is a real feeling of ominousness throughout . The acting from the no-name cast is rather tolerable , with Love re-teaming with film-maker ex-husband Ulli Lommel after the supernatural slasher " The Boogeyman " . Robert Walker , Jr . is amiable enough as a local who's more friendly than most , and Paul Willson ( who made a number of appearances on ' Cheers ' as one of the barflies ) is okay as a cretinous shopkeeper . Donald Pleasence is most welcome as the local doctor who's either helping to cover up a crime , hypnotizing patients into unlocking the secrets of the past , or removing maggots from his flesh that are the result of a curse on his own family . No , this little story of witchcraft horror isn't destined to become a classic at all , but it's a mildly enjoyable film all the same .
Jackie Chan goes to 1930's era Chicago .	Jerry Kwan ( Jackie Chan , in the very first role intended to introduce him to American audiences ) is a martial artist who is forced by mobster Dominici ( Jose Ferrer ) to participate in a no-holds-barred fighting tournament in Texas . Likable , energetic , and entertaining , this light on plot martial arts potboiler ( made by the director of " Enter the Dragon " ) offers some good entertainment although it kind of misses the potential for greatness . Chan is amiable as always , spicing up the material with as much outright comedy as martial arts action , in his inimitable style . Ferrer is enjoyable as the mobster , and Kristine De Bell is appealing as Jerry's American girlfriend . Such familiar faces as H . B . Haggerty and Ox Baker are among the fighters , and Larry Drake ( ' L . A . Law ' ) can be seen in a small role .
Not all that bad , but falls short when compared to the original .	Rob Zombies ' remake - sorry , " re-imagining " - of John Carpenters ' landmark slasher film , in which we get an extended look back at Michael Myers ' lousy home and school life , what leads him to commit his first murders , and his time spent in the asylum , before he finally breaks free and embarks on a killing spree in the present day . I pretty much knew what to expect going in . After all , this is Zombies ' take on the material , not Carpenters ' , and he did have the freedom to do what he wished . Therefore , I can't say that I was disappointed . The problem with Zombies ' approach is that there's no atmosphere in his film , nor any scares or suspense . He substitutes these elements for graphic gore ( this film is certainly a good visceral experience , if nothing else ) , and Carpenters ' great dialog for extensive profanity . I thought that the film would do a better job of building sympathy for Michael Myers ( and that would be another drawback for me - I preferred it when he was a lot more mysterious , and seemingly supernatural ) . As the film opens , he's violently dispatching one of his pets , and we learn later that he already has a history of torturing animals . Of course , being surrounded by the white trash losers that comprise his family , including mother Deborah ( played by Zombies ' wife , and regular in his films , Sheri Moon Zombie ) and her truly despicable , mangy boyfriend ( William Forsythe , in peak slimeball mode ) is a childhood that I wouldn't want either . Zombie at least has enough respect for the original to make some much appreciated nods to Carpenters ' classic , such as having " The Thing from Another World " playing on TV . If I can say one good thing about Rob Zombie , he certainly assembles great B-movie casts . Cameos include Richard Lynch , Sybil Danning , Clint Howard , Udo Kier , Dee Wallace , and while younger viewers may not be able to appreciate their presence , cult film fans like me will get a real kick out of it . Zombie also fills the film with his own stock company of actors , including Sid Haig ( who actually has hair on his head in this film ! ) , Bill Moseley , and Tom Towles . Genre favorite Brad Dourif , the ever-lovable Danielle Harris from parts 4 and 5 of the series , an appealing Scout Taylor-Compton as the new Laurie Strode , Tyler Mane and Daeg Faerch as the adult and kid incarnations of Michael , and Malcolm McDowell ( actually kind of disappointing , in the role originated by Donald Pleasence ) round out the cast . Taken on its own , without my automatic comparisons to the earlier film , this is decent but unspectacular , and unmemorable , horror . I didn't have a bad time watching it , but I didn't care for it a whole lot , either .
A decent effort .	I just saw this film and I will say this : it IS a reasonably creative imagining of what goes on inside a person's body . Bill Murray plays a slovenly , disgusting guy who doesn't care what he puts in his mouth . When he eats an egg that has been infected with germs , he puts himself at risk , and the animated portion of this film , taking place inside his body , shows everything that happens . Personally , I liked the movie . I thought all the animated scenes worked . They were entertaining and the actors providing the voices ( Chris Rock , Laurence Fishburne , David Hyde Pierce , William Shatner , and others ) do spirited work . It's the live-action scenes in the movie that don't measure up . They are just typical Farrelly brothers scenes involving some EXTREMELY disgusting gross-out humor . There are scenes involving pus and vomit but I know I can't say anymore than that . Overall , this is a mixed bag . It's not for everybody . But if you can stomach the live-action scenes , you may be reasonably entertained . I was .
Another 1980's artifact . . .	A sleek black car - a Dodge Turbo Interceptor - and its mysterious , costume-wearing rider - materialize in the desert one night and proceed to eliminate the members of a gang . Don't bother watching this hoping for an innovative script , clever dialog or particularly good performances . Watch it for its cool cars , its loud soundtrack of rockin ' 1980's tunes , some competently handled action scenes , lots of explosions , and silly special effects . This is notable for its cast of acting offspring ( Charlie Sheen , son of Martin , and Nick Cassavetes , son of John , as the baddie ) and siblings ( Clint Howard , brother of Ron ) . David Sherrill as Skank and Jamie Bozian as Gutterboy make for a pretty annoying pair of comic relief lackeys . Sherilyn Fenn is positively gorgeous as the female lead . Randy Quaid abandons his usual comic swagger for a more straight-laced performance as the local sheriff . As films of its type go , it's not bad . Those of us who came of age in the 1980's should find it particularly amusing .
" Teenagers . . . I never had them when I was a kid . "	Jimmy Wallace ( Jack Nicholson , in his very first film role ) is smarting from both being dumped by girlfriend Carole ( Carolyn Mitchell ) and then being beat up by her new boyfriend Manny ( Brett Halsey ) and his gang . In the midst of a confrontation with Manny , Jimmy gets hold of a gun and starts shooting , after which he panics and ends up taking a man , a woman , and the woman's infant hostage . Too scared to do much of anything , Jimmys ' refusal to give up allows the situation to drag on . Nicholson fans hoping for a real showcase might be a little disappointed ; there are fairly big stretches where he isn't even on camera , but he still makes his mark , beginning his admirable career with a certain undeniable zeal ( although he wouldn't quite cement his star status until a decade later with " Easy Rider " ) . Executive producer Roger Corman ( who also has a cameo as a TV truck guy ) had attended an acting class ( hoping to appreciate what actors go through ) with the future star and , believing him to be the best actor in the class , gave him this now historical role . It also marked the beginning of an association between the actor and film-maker that would last well into the ' 60's . The film itself is definitely low-budget , very quick ( running barely over an hour ) , light on plot , dated in a number of ways , and forgettable once it's over , but still a reasonably entertaining hostage drama . Writers Leo Gordon ( who also plays a small role ) and Melvin Levy deserve some credit for the way they depict this sort of situation , definitely prefacing future cinematic hostage-related stories . A prominent character player of the era , Harry Lauter , gets a rare top-billed role as the detective in charge of the situation , and it's a treat to see him get his own showcase . Other familiar faces like Bill Erwin , Ed Nelson , and Bruno VeSota can be seen as well . It's a thoroughly watchable little movie , even if it's mostly noteworthy as Nicholsons ' debut .
Odd , not entirely satisfying , but an interesting effort all the same .	Beverly Hills plastic surgeon Larry Roberts ( Albert Finney ) is losing his clients as of late . They're dying under mysterious circumstances , and Roberts makes it his mission to protect Cindy ( Susan Dey ) , whom he believes will be next . The nefarious plot afoot seems to have something to do with the Reston Corporation , headed by smooth , powerful John Reston ( a dapper James Coburn ) , which is using the medium of television to its utmost advantage . Perhaps what is most noteworthy for me is that Michael Crichtons ' premise was ambitious for its time , foretelling the kind of technology that has actually come to pass in more recent years . He also succeeds in crafting an offbeat mystery where the viewer is discovering things along with the hero , instead of always being two steps ahead . Some sequences have a decidedly strange effect , and these involve the use of a revolutionary weapon that causes people to blank out . These lend the film a surreal quality that adds to the overall unconventional feel of this thriller . The cast gives it a good effort , with the electronic score by Barry DeVorzon lending it a creepy feel . The title song is typical cheesy 80's stuff , but is undeniably catchy . Sets and computer graphics are also quite eye-catching ( not to mention the prospect of a naked Dey being scanned by a computer for an extended period of time ) . While suffering from some significant flaws , I can't just dismiss it either , as it espouses its ideas in a fairly slick and provocative manner , and delivers a fair dose of early 1980's sci-fi entertainment .
Fairly good slasher .	A group of children are playing a morbid version of hide and seek in an old run-down building . They corner one of their own , Robin Hammond , relentlessly taunting her , until she perishes in an accident . Unwilling to face any consequences , they each agree to clam up . Six years later , they're high school seniors anticipating their prom . But naturally somebody remembers what they did years ago , and targets them , taunting them with obscene phone calls and eventually escalating into violence . " Prom Night " probably won't completely satisfy some slasher aficionados , because of a low body count , and sparing uses of gore and nudity . ( There is , however , a decapitation near the end that is a memorable highlight . ) It starts out somewhat slowly , saving the horror elements for the latter portion of the picture . It does deliver some good atmosphere ( those darkened school hallways certainly look forbidding ) and suspense , however . There's also an effective series of chase sequences involving snooty character Wendy ( Eddie Benton ) . The story gives us not one but three red herrings , and the final twist allows for one of the sadder endings that I've seen in a slasher film . The repetitive disco sequences certainly help to firmly date this film , although it's still amusing to watch star Jamie Lee Curtis giving her all in those dancing scenes . She's fine as usual , even if we don't get to know her character all that well . Screen veteran Leslie Nielsen , in one of the last serious roles of his before comedy largely overtook his career , doesn't have too much to do , but it's fun to see him in this sort of thing . Benton ( in her last role before adopting the new moniker Anne-Marie Martin ) is perfect as Curtis's nemesis , with good supporting performances by Robert Silverman as off-putting janitor Mr . Sykes , David Mucci as thuggish troublemaker Lou , and George Touliatos as the detective . The actors playing the kids are likable enough , although it seems that Nick ( Casey Stevens ) is the only one harboring any guilt over what happened six years earlier . Overall , a decent , commendable effort by director Paul Lynch and crew , that delivers some standout moments , with a chilling music score by Carl Zittrer and Paul Zaza . Followed by " Hello Mary Lou : Prom Night II " in 1987 , " Prom Night III : The Last Kiss " in 1990 , " Prom Night IV : Deliver Us from Evil " in 1992 , and a remake in
Likable enough college / romantic comedy .	Andrew ( Michael Muhney ) and Joe ( Jon Collins ) are college room-mates who get into some predictable romantic entanglements . Joe has been pining for Shayna ( Mary Kay Cook ) , a student in his chemistry class , but when he goes home for Thanksgiving break and Andrew and Shayna stay behind , a night of drinking for them results in a night of sex . Andrew , who's always been one to avoid commitment , actually finds himself feeling guilty after brushing off Shayna afterward , while debating whether Joe should be told . Although I found this pretty forgettable in the end ( with catchy but unremarkable rock songs on the soundtrack ) , the characters aren't painted in shades of black and white . They have their flaws as well as their attributes , and come off as basically likable and realistic people . There are also predictably colorful characters on the sidelines , like the staunch Republican Mark ( Chuck Raucci ) who debates whether to put Barbara Bush or Nancy Reagan on his wall , Tad ( Jim Slonina ) , an off-the-wall personality , and Steve ( Will Carpenter ) , obsessed with working out . " Love 101 " is not as focused on outrageous hijinks or raunchy doings as other movies of its type . Nudity is even kept to a minimum . Instead , it really focuses on how its characters think and feel , and treats them with respect , rather than thinking of ways to embarrass them . It's a rather amiable little movie with its heart in the right place , even with an air of familiarity to it . It's worth checking out for people looking for an alternative to movies of the " American Pie " ilk .
Watchable enough little-known slasher .	On Halloween night in 1963 , a maniacal priest conducts an occult ritual wherein several college students are butchered . The priest spends the next 25 years locked in the cell of an insane asylum until fate - in the form of a fraternity prank - intervenes , and he is able to escape . He then picks his way through the student bodies with a pick-axe in hand . Two dull brothers fighting over the same girl then proceed to band together to take him on . For folks attracted by the names proudly displayed on the DVD - Darren McGavin of ' Night Stalker ' fame , Sam Rockwell , and a pre-'C . S . I . ' Jorja Fox - I want to say that their roles are all brief . McGavin barely appears until the climax , when he's then required to give us some critical exposition . Rockwell plays the younger version of McGavin's character , and is limited to flashback sequences . And Fox ( whose part is actually uncredited ) is just around long enough to get stabbed through the skull . I've certainly seen better slashers than this , but I've seen worse as well . It's not all bad : it's played very seriously ( with the exception of the killer's lame admonitions after each kill ) . It has some good moments - such as one involving a statue of Christ on the cross . And it does fulfill slasher requirements by giving us some fairly entertaining gore and doses of female flesh . The silly ending was extremely predictable . However , the killer is played by Charles Cragin as a diminutive chrome-domed albino with hideously dark eyes . This is one creepy killer ( albeit as long as he doesn't have dialog ) who could have used a better vehicle . Overall , it's routine , forgettable stuff , but it may be enough to satisfy some loyal slasher aficionados . I do , however , find it amusing that Ted Clark , who in " Happy Hell Night " plays the geeky voyeur Bara , went on to play One-Eye in " Wrong Turn " .
A fair reworking of " Willard " .	Chris Robinson plays Tim Ochopee , a Seminole Indian haunted by his Vietnam War experience who lives in seclusion in the Florida Everglades . Seemingly unable to get along with other people , the only things that he identifies with are snakes , especially the title rattler . Stanley often gets into confrontations with thugs who work for a sleazeball ( Alex Rocco ) who , naturally enough , does the one thing guaranteed to raise Tim's ire . The man makes belts and such out of snake hides . When these people , and others such as an aging exotic dancer who uses snakes in her act , go too far , he commands the snakes to strike back at them . Problems here include a protagonist who isn't as sympathetic as he ought to be ( it was just too hard to care much for this person ) , leisurely pacing , and a lack of good scares . The movie just doesn't deliver enough on a visceral level . The best performance is Rocco's ; he at least has a good knack for perfecting a truly slimy cretin , who at one tasteless point leers at his own nubile daughter . On the other hand , it's got some amusing things going for it . Co-star Steve Alaimo , who reminds me a little of David Hess ( Krug in " The Last House on the Left " ) , makes for a pretty good thug . The swamp location is utilized well . And the silly ending where Tim impulsively falls in love with his nemesis's daughter , abducts her , brings her back to his home , and tries to convince her to stay with him , is just laughable . It's setting up a very " Willard " - like ending where the unhinged young man finally rubs his slithering pets the wrong way , when they suddenly decide for once that they're not going to do his bidding . But best of all is Rocco's death in his own swimming pool ; the freeze frame of him diving is utterly , hilariously ridiculous . " Stanley " is basically watchable schlock with some entertaining moments .
Once again , a film in which the government is up to no good . . .	At Biotek , a monolithic facility in Utah , biological warfare experts cook up a weapon designed to turn its victims into raging , homicidal psychos . The movie barely begins before the unthinking scientists ( accidentally ) spread their disease inside their own lab and fall prey to their own invention . Local sheriff Cal Morse ( Sam Waterston ) not only has to deal with the furor developing outside the building , but has to worry about his security guard wife Joanie ( Kathleen Quinlan ) who is trapped inside with everybody else . While not really that slick , or exciting , it actually is pretty enjoyable . Debuting director Hal Barwood , who wrote " Warning Sign " with his former writing partner of 15 years , Matthew Robbins ( their other credits include Spielberg's " The Sugarland Express " and " Close Encounters of the Third Kind " , as well as 1978's " Corvette Summer " and 1981's " Dragonslayer " ) directs competently if not stylishly . It's more of a journeyman effort , but it pays off fairly well due to a reasonably engrossing , subtle , and disquieting story and a superior cast ( as a matter of fact , I think this little film is well cast right down the line ) . I really liked some of these characters , especially Jeffrey DeMunn's , and they are nicely brought to life . Co-star G . W . Bailey is kind of a revelation here ; those familiar with his sneering , slimy comedy villain from the " Police Academy " series should note that he does good dramatic work here . Craig Safan's electronic music is pretty effective , and the film is designed and photographed by two veteran talents : Henry Bumstead ( who was in his 90's and still working at the time of his death last month ) and Dean Cundey . The result is a film that is interesting to look at , and of , course , picture quality is better than ever now that it's on DVD . A decent little picture that provides some good entertainment , even if the dramatic payoff isn't that strong . This picture probably isn't that well known - not many here at IMDb have reviewed it - but it's worth a look if you are curious .
REALLY silly , but enjoyable .	Goofy , corny , clichéd 1980's horror thriller about derelicts in NYC , living underground , who have mutated into monsters after being exposed to toxic waste . They come up to street level at nighttime to eat their human victims . I may not have enjoyed it right from the start , but " C . H . U . D . " did sort of grow on me . It's not exactly high quality stuff , but it is possible to be entertained if you don't take it seriously . Maybe that was the problem the first time that I watched it - I took it too seriously . Amusing monsters ( standard men-in-costume creations , but not bad ) , cheesy 1980's style electronic score , some hilariously dumb lines , and some decent performances are the highlights of this picture . " C . H . U . D . " was a true family affair , with friends and family of the principal contributors working either on or off screen . It may not be technically GOOD , but it was made with heart and the cast and crew clearly were having a good time with it . One major point of interest with " C . H . U . D . " is playing " Spot The Familiar Face " . You might be amazed at how many of the actors you will recognize . If you listen to the commentary on the DVD , it gets even better . The actors do a hilarious job of just ripping into the movie - and teasing each other . Surely it's noteworthy as one of the filthiest , mangiest , dirtiest movies I've ever seen . It captures on film what have got to be some of the most unattractive parts of NYC . I gave it .
A mildly amusing serving of 80's trash .	Betsy Russell is " Tommy " , the title character who enjoys tinkering with automobiles and is quite the good mechanic . She meets Randy Starr ( Gerard Christopher ) , a hunky racing champion whom she crushes on , but to whom she is determined to prove that anything he can do , she can do just as well . " Tomboy " is a likable enough comedy that , like many of its kind , strongly evokes the 80's era . Granted , I think it could have done without a subplot involving Tommy's uninhibited friend Seville ( Kristi Somers ) that isn't even resolved , and it gets too cute and sappy at times , but it's comfortably predictable . It's got lots of cheesy 80's pop tunes , and doses of sex , flesh , and sleaze are high enough . It's not terribly funny , although it has its moments . ( Seville's raunchy donut commercial is hilariously silly . ) It definitely takes its message of female empowerment pretty seriously . It does work as a vehicle for the charming and sexy Russell , who is certainly easy to watch . Standing out in support is veteran Richard Erdman , as her father-figure boss at the garage , with Eric Douglas ( son of Kirk and brother of Michael ) perfectly smarmy and sleazy as a spoiled rich kid . Basically , it's all pretty typical and unmemorable . It's bouncy , harmless , and hard to completely resist . At least it knows its audience and how to appeal to it .
For standard B-grade cop vs . killer material , it's certainly tolerable enough .	Detective Sam Dietz ( series star Leo Rossi ) has had enough of chasing psychos , but as this entry opens , he's being coaxed back into action to advise the inept detectives working the case of a particularly sickening and arrogant killer ( William Forsythe , clearly born to play this sort of part ) . With all the various movies with this theme floating around out there , you could probably do worse than this . It has a professional cast including some very familiar faces , and moves along fairly well ( although there were some points where I thought that it was dragging a little too much ) . It actually ended sooner than I was expecting and the climax is not exactly what I was expecting - it's kind of a plus for not being overtly predictable , yet it ultimately wasn't altogether satisfying . The killer is one of those types we're kind of familiar with by now - - brutal , despicable , and undeniably much smarter than the bulk of his pursuers , picking people off with seemingly little to no effort at all . Forsythe is very good in this part . Overall , a very routine movie of its type , yet still reasonably entertaining . James Lemmo , a veteran cinematographer with an impressive list of B-movies on his resume - " Ms . 45 " , " Madman " , " Vigilante " , " Maniac Cop " 1 and 2 , and the like , here turns in one of his few directorial efforts to date .
Actually a little disappointing . . .	In the concluding film of writer / director George A . Romero's original zombie trilogy , a female scientist ( Lori Cardille ) and her associates hole up underground with a group of soldiers - some of the most sexist , racist , ignorant , mean , foul-mouthed jerks you're ever likely to see - while the zombie population congregates outside . I say " disappointing " because for a long time not much goes on ; all we get is a lot of characters talking to - sometimes yelling and screaming at - each other and not enough zombie action . The film becomes flat and I was left wondering , " Is this really a horror film ? " Kept on track by some good performances ( his character may be scum but Josef Pilato is great at playing him ) and elevated a little bit by the gore and effects of master Tom Savini , which come to life particularly in the climax , featuring LOTS of the living dead . The scenes with the somewhat humanistic zombie " Bub " ( played by Howard Sherman , a . k . a . Sherman Howard ) also work fairly well , mainly because of the actor's performance . I also thought that John Harrison's music score was decent . Gregory Nicotero , who was Tom Savini's assistant on this film and who would go on to become part of the KNB EFX team , also plays " Private Johnson " . I know I probably should have watched these films in order , but it DOES make me want to catch " Dawn of the Dead " more than ever now . I definitely want to see if all the great things I've heard about " Dawn " are true . Not great , but maybe a little above average for horror fare .
Sean S . Cunningham graduates from slasher horror to suspense .	In a move that I'm sure he made to gain himself some credibility , as well as have some mainstream success , Cunningham made this failed adaptation of the Mary Higgins Clark novel ( scripted by Earl Mac Rauch ( " The Adventures of Buckaroo Banzai in the Eighth Dimension " ) and " Friday the 13th " screenwriter Victor Miller ) . Truly nasty psycho villain Artie Taggart ( Rip Torn , whose natural flamboyance serves him well here ) kidnaps traumatized child Julie Peterson ( Shawn von Schreiber ) and TV newswoman Sharon Martin ( Kate Mulgrew ) , holding them for ransom in a filthy room among the other unsavory locations beneath Grand Central Station . The performances are enough to make it above average ( save for von Schreiber , who unfortunately isn't enough of an actress to make Julie more sympathetic ) , as well as Cunningham's effort to make this more of a traditional suspense film . He actually refrains from throwing blood in the viewer's face ; even when a murder is violent , it is implied more than shown . The " big " plot twist at about the 67-minute mark probably wouldn't come as a surprise to most people . Cunningham uses two of the same crew from " Friday " - art director Virginia Field and cinematographer Barry Abrams - and his wife Susan is the editor . Son Noel has a bit part . Look for small roles for character actor / acting teacher William Hickey - he of that raspy , sing-song voice - as a bum who's only around long enough to insult Torn and get himself killed - and Vincent Spano , who can be seen as a gas thief .
Amusing , trashy seasonal horror from the other side of the Atlantic .	The same year that " Silent Night , Deadly Night " caused a furor in North America , this silly horror film came out of England . In this case , the killer is not the one wearing the Santa Claus costume ; the victims are . This brutal psychopath wears various masks and utilizes different methods , and the Scotland Yard detectives on the case prove to be completely ineffective at making any progress on the case . Kate ( Belinda Mayne ) is personally affected when , at a party , her father gets killed for wearing a Santa Claus suit . Apparently a troubled production , this might certainly explain the holes in the plot . Star Edmund Purdom started out as director ( also starring as Detective Inspector Harris ) , to be replaced by writer Derek Ford , who in turn was replaced by editor Ray Selfe . The result is a jumble of a story , with the motivation for the killer finally explained just before an abrupt ending . Produced by Dick Randall ( who'd also had a hand in " Pieces " , which also featured Purdom ) and Steve Minasian ( one of the driving forces behind the " Friday the 13th " franchise ) , this movie gets down to business quickly . It's pretty much one murder after another , some of them enjoyably disgusting and sadistic . ( One Santa gets burned alive and another loses his manhood in one memorably nasty moment . ) The level of sleaze is high ; co-star Pat Astley as Sharon gets to bare her breasts . She also figures in an effectively depraved moment , when , clad in little more than a Santa coat , she gets molested by the killer's knife . Although the movie features the gorgeous Caroline Munro in a hilariously cheesy musical performance , the cast isn't much to speak of , with the exception of Alan Lake as Giles and Mark Jones as Sergeant Powell . Leggy Kelly Baker is quite easy to watch as an eyewitness to one murder who gets kidnapped and locked away by the killer . " Don't Open ' Til Christmas " is one very absurd , tacky , and nasty piece of work that , if nothing else , at least has the elements to qualify as a fairly entertaining slasher .
Good action , not much else .	The third starring vehicle for former karate champion Chuck Norris from the soon-to-be defunct American Cinema company , " The Octagon " tells the story of Scott James ( Norris ) , whose adopted brother Seigura ( Tadashi Yamashita ) is running a terrorist training camp somewhere in Central America . Also involved is a spoiled-rotten heiress ( Karen Carlson ) who wants revenge against Seigura because of the death of her father at the hands of terrorists . Then there's the reliable , squinty-eyed legendary film villain Lee Van Cleef as the shady character McCarn , Canadian actor Art Hindle as Scott's hot-headed friend A . J . , and Carol Bagdasarian , daughter of singer-songwriter-actor Ross Bagdasarian , as a sexy terrorist-in-training who ultimately tries to redeem herself . " The Octagon " is clearly more ambitious and better produced than a number of similar martial arts thrillers , although its reliance on actual plot and character development tends to make it drag at times . Those who watch these kinds of films for the admittedly well-choreographed fights may have their patience tested at times . Norris basically just does what he usually does . Carlson is fairly awful . Van Cleef probably is the standout performer in this although " The Octagon " is noteworthy for some familiar faces in small parts : B-movie and martial arts veteran Richard Norton plays both " Kyo " and " Long Legs " and a number of the faceless ninjas as well ( he's joked that he must have died a total of eight times in this movie ) . Ernie Hudson , veteran comedian Jack Carter , Brian Libby ( whose next role was as Chuck's psycho nemesis in " Silent Rage " ) , and an unbilled Tracey Walter all turn up as well . " The Octagon " is really not bad for this kind of film , although since it's NOT wall-to-wall action , some folks may find it hard to sit through . This is another of those cases where you could do better and you could do worse .
It's passable , but forgettable .	A mild horror outing , with a generous dose of human drama , in which a humanoid creature of Native American myth is released from imprisonment in a forest cave and proceeds to terrorize and murder anyone / everyone unfortunate enough to be in the area . The primary focus of the movie is a sexy young ranger named Danielle ( Cerina Vincent ) , or " Danny " as others call her , who's struggling with a lot of guilt and pent-up emotion over a tragedy in her recent past . This whole idea of the protagonist fighting both internal and external demons is rather corny , but Vincent acts her little heart out , allowing for a little sympathy towards the character . Dominic Zamprogna is also noteworthy in that he makes the role of the persistent boyfriend reasonably likable as well . The horror aspect of this little movie is not so successful . It's not scary or very suspenseful . Overused gimmicks like shaky hand-held camera work and P . O . V . shots ultimately add nothing . The filmmakers go the subtle " Jaws " and " Alien " route in showing very little of the creature at first , yet , when revealed , it's a guy in a costume and the costume isn't a particularly distinguished one . This may work more for people who haven't seen very many horror films ; horror fans may simply experience too much deja vu . The reliable Eric Schweig brightens things up a bit around the one-hour mark with his presence , but he's only really around to offer exposition and is written out of the picture pretty abruptly . I kind of enjoyed the music score - at times it has a Native American flavor to it , and it seems to be infused with a sort of sadness at other times . The songs are rather nice , with beautiful vocals by none other than the director's wife . Overseen , and co-written , by Stephen J . Cannell , the man responsible for some of the most popular TV series of the 1980's , but who in recent years has curiously moved into generating low-budget genre efforts like this one .
Not bad , I think . . .	Teen exploitation / sleaze drama about 15-year-old high school honor student Molly Stewart ( Donna Wilkes ) , who walks Hollywood Boulevard at night as a hooker named " Angel " . She acquires a mentor in compassionate detective Andrews ( Cliff Gorman ) while an ultra-creepy psycho killer ( John Diehl ) is killing off her associates . Oddly enough , this film isn't as tasteless or raunchy as you might expect ( although it does throw in obligatory female nudity ) so some people may be disappointed . Moderately enjoyable movie indulges in a little melodrama , as we get Molly's background story , but for the most part just tells a simple little story without wasting a lot of time . Film attempts to draw viewer in by introducing us to Molly's quirky friends : drag queen Mae ( Dick Shawn ) , faded cowboy actor Kit Carson ( Rory Calhoun ) , and butch landlord Solly ( Susan Tyrrell ) . All the actors are fine - I genuinely enjoyed their work ( as a matter of fact , it is their performances more than anything that made me enjoy this picture ) ; Wilkes was actually in her twenties at the time but looked young enough to more or less pull off playing a teenager . Diehl leaves a strong impression as the bad guy , despite having almost no dialog at all . It did offer a first for me : seeing the bad guy on the run , being pursued by the vengeful heroine , who is brandishing a gun in full view of dozens of people . R . I . P . Dick Shawn and Rory Calhoun .
Not Bad For A Slasher Movie .	Virginia " Ginny " Wainwright ( Melissa Sue Anderson ) is one of the " Top Ten " , an exclusive clique of rich kids at the Canadian institution of Crawford Academy . However , what is more noteworthy is the fact that her friends have begun to get killed off - and Ginny thinks that she might be responsible . She's been having blackouts and flashbacks that are linked to a tragic incident in her past . While Leonard Maltin and company consider this to be the absolute lowest point in actor Glenn Ford's career ( he plays Ginny's sympathetic psychiatrist ) the movie itself is fairly unique for the slasher genre . It plays almost as if it were based on a novel and not written directly for the screen - what I mean is that it is actually more dependent on plot and performances than many a slasher movie . It plods along ( it's probably also the longest slasher movie ever made at an hour and fifty-one minutes ) and not all of the murders are as gory as you might expect . In fact , until late in the movie , the goriest sequence is actually the one of the operation Ginny had after the accident . It takes some getting used to , and I wouldn't recommend it to rabid slasher fans - no sex , and , like I just said , not as much explicit violence as in other movies of its kind ( however , there is one funny moment near the end when a character is killed by a blow to the head with a fireplace poker and an obscenely ridiculous amount of blood splashes over the walls ) . Anderson is a reasonably sympathetic lead and there are a few familiar faces in the supporting cast . The writing has the usual fair assortment of flaws - although the movie's final twist is amusing enough to make it somewhat memorable . Other slasher movies filmed in Canada ( which I have reviewed , anyway ) include " Terror Train " , " Prom Night " , and " My Bloody Valentine " . Produced by Canadian producers John Dunning and Andre Link , who also ushered in the first major Canadian horror movie , David Cronenberg's movie " Shivers " ( a . k . a . " They Came From Within " ) .
This Was OK , Nothing More .	Southern California beach bum Sean Brumder ( Colin Hanks ) finds a book half-buried in the sand at the beach and it inspires him so much that he becomes determined to get accepted at Stanford University and forge a career as a writer . Unfortunately , his incredibly dysfunctional family ( including his moronic junkie brother , played by Jack Black ) keeps ruining his chances at getting in ( not to mention the fact that his inept guidance counselor ( Lily Tomlin ) mailed the university the wrong transcript ) . Very likable movie has amiable young leads , and features the talents of some second-generation entertainers ( Hanks - son of Tom , Schuyler Fisk - daughter of Sissy Spacek , director Jake Kasdan - son of Lawrence . There's even the musical presence of Jason Schwartzman ( son of Talia Shire ) , who co-wrote the closing-credits song " California " and performs it with his band " Phantom Planet " ) . It's nothing special but its irreverent style is a little refreshing ( even if not all of those jokes work ) . One problem is that like many comedies , it eventually reaches a point where we're supposed to take it seriously . Hanks is acceptable in the lead , and in some scenes even reminded me of his famous father . Film-makers did have enough sense to cast some talented comedic veterans in supporting roles . Short running time helps too - movie does not overstay its welcome . Written by Mike White ( " Chuck & Buck " , " The Good Girl " , " School of Rock " ) who also plays Mr . Burke .
" Hell Night " is not quite your usual " slasher " picture .	Two fraternity pledges ( Peter Barton , Vincent Van Patten ) and two sorority pledges ( Linda Blair , Suki Goodwin ) are obliged , as part of their initiation , to spend one night in Garth Manor , where a madman once murdered his family and then killed himself . However , the legend also states that one member of that family was never found . . . Not-bad horror thriller , directed by Tom De Simone , a man who started out in adult films and branched out into slightly more mainstream , yet still exploitative pictures ( " The Concrete Jungle " , " Reform School Girls " , " Angel III : The Final Chapter " ) . He puts the accent in " Hell Night " on generating some genuine scares and suspense , and actually does a passable job . A couple of dopey young dolts die , but not in any graphic , on-screen manner . Of course , I'd be willing to bet that this film had a low , low budget , especially for effects , so obviously creating scares instead of just shocking the audience would have had to take priority . The " deformed " killer's makeup is really rather light . Linda Blair is okay but really unexceptional ; she could never have rivaled Jamie Lee Curtis as a " scream queen " . All the same , I can understand why some people would think that " Hell Night " is boring . It's not as taut a picture as it could and should have been ; better pacing would have helped . Also becomes completely absurd at one point where Van Patten is in a police station and is able to find some handy weapons and ammunition and abscond with a loaded rifle . Then again , these types of pictures weren't always known for their firm grip on reality . As cheesy , low-budget 1980's horror B-pictures go , I think that it was fairly entertaining .
Okay for what it is .	Folks venturing into the ocean by the small town of Palm Cove are being gobbled up by the title animals . This aberrant animal behavior is followed by aggressive behavior by the human locals . Biologist Mike Canfield ( Wayne David Crawford ) , testing the waters , figures that the local chemical plant may be responsible with the amount of pollution that they're creating . As another of the " Jaws " knockoffs to emerge in the late 1970's and early 1980's , this watchable Florida-lensed B movie is played dead seriously . Helping to set the mood is really somber and sometimes creepy music by Klaus Schulze . However , the animals don't play as big a part in this movie as one might expect , as conspiracy thriller elements take over and a generous portion of the movie takes place on land . It ends up plodding a little too much with not much in the way of excitement . The acting is variable . Crawford , a likable enough if colorless type , presumably got the hero role because he also co-wrote the movie . Veterans Jason Evers ( " The Brain That Wouldn't Die " ) , William Kerwin ( " Blood Feast " ) , Cliff Emmich ( " Halloween II " ) and Bert Freed of countless films fill out supporting roles . Evers has a particularly bad scene where he's required to emote and he can't pull it off . Sexy Roberta Leighton , as Kerwins ' daughter , has some appeal ; what's mystifying is watching her almost throw herself at a not particularly attractive man and seeing a ridiculous lack of interest on his part ! The fish attack scenes are decent , and the surprising last second bummer ending ends the movie on an effective note . Overall , it's a far cry for Joe Dantes ' " Piranha " , released the same year . It's on the bland side , but provided you aren't too demanding , it's not all that bad for a routine B movie .
It shouldn't have been any fun , but I actually kind of liked it !	Routine , predictable " B " monster movie - this one about a giant crocodile - in which the rampaging animal devours anyone and everyone in its path after someone has been foolish to mess with the things ' nest of eggs . Everything about this is obligatory - the attractive and incompetent cast , the gore , the frequent ( yet effective ! ) shock moments , the rock songs on the soundtrack . Tobe Hooper , the one-time master who gave the world the original " Texas Chain Saw Massacre " as well as one of the better haunted house movies ever made ( " Poltergeist " ) , continues a downward slide with this horror movie I imagine will only be seen by devoted aficionados of " B " movies . Too bad , for a director who's clearly had more failures in his career than successes . Of course , this is not his first crocodile movie - about a quarter century ago , he also made 1976's " Eaten Alive " ( which featured an early role for future horror icon Robert Englund ) . I was actually expecting to totally and completely despise this movie - I thought I would be able to revel in some genuinely , gloriously awful " B " movie trash ( sometimes , when a " B " movie is awful , that can actually be a good thing , to which I'm sure other people will agree ) . However , there is an occasional flash of quality in this movie - thanks to the K . N . B . effects team , there are times when the crocodile almost looks realistic ( please note , the croc was a combination of animatronics and CGI , not JUST CGI ) . The characters are so one-dimensional , and the cast so clueless as to how to make them sympathetic and likable , that the result is that - as is often the case in films of this kind - to root for the monster instead . Outside of Annabelle ( Julie Mintz ) and her dog , I didn't care about these people . I didn't want to see them survive . " Crocodile " is what it is . It's not exactly a good movie , but it was mildly , mildly enjoyable .
Would you go swimming in that pond ? ! ?	All through history a run-down country home has taken its fair share of human lives ; together a young priest ( James Houghton ) and a cynical , grumpy detective ( Albert Salmi ) try to put an end to things in the present day . Passable genre fare with performances that are basically tolerable ( however , although those two girls playing the daughters of incoming resident George Leahy ( Larry Pennell , a . k . a . " Kemosabe " of the more recent " Bubba Ho-Tep " ) may be lookers , they are just awful ) . It boasts some atmosphere and a sense of foreboding , but what this fairly obscure 1980's entry is offering you are a few memorably over-the-top graphic murders - death by microwave , window pane , and runaway saw blade are all outlandish set pieces . ( Truth be told , though , the gore hounds interested in watching should note that the filmmakers seem to want the viewer to actually be interested in the STORY . There are large gaps in between the bloody mayhem . ) The climax is actually decent although the concluding moments are rather subdued . The lengthy flashback , involving the 1692 execution of a genuinely repellent disciple of Satan , is pretty good and , considering that this sequence doesn't ladle on the gore , I found that it kind of stuck in my mind as well . " Superstition " is worth a look for curiosity's sake . I would not go in with a lot of expectations , but I will say that the hardcore horror fan may derive some pleasure out of it .
My first Andy Milligan experience .	In this supposed period piece , three sisters and their husbands return to an island home for the reading of a will . It doesn't take long for bodies to start dropping , as a maniac in a cloak and hood marks them and bloodily dispatches them . While I didn't have as much fun watching this as I was hoping to , it's still holds a certain kind of fascination . It's incredibly crude and obviously done on a very low budget , but it's also a crazed little oddity of a movie . An exploitative version of a " murder in an old dark house " formula , it features a moderate amount of female flesh , bargain basement level gore , and a pretty nondescript cast . ( However , I do have to admit to being amused by one character : simpleton Colin ( Hal Borske ) , who chows down on a white rabbit in one hell of a weird moment . The movie slowly edges towards a fairly abrupt conclusion ( wherein we get a " villain explains everything to the audience " revelation ) . It doesn't overstay its welcome ; it's fairly short at 72 minutes long . It offers a lurid atmosphere and revels in shock moments . The very cheapness of the whole affair just adds to its bizarre , see-it-to-believe it quality . It may not be technically good in any way , but it's a definite curiosity that merits a look , at least for lovers of bad low-budget genre cinema . At least one cast member here made good : Richard Romanus's next feature was Martin Scorseses ' " Mean Streets " , which really kick-started an impressive career .
Not anything great , but I like it well enough .	In the time of the Mexican / American war , soldier John Boyd ( Guy Pearce ) is sent to a remote California fort in a snowy wilderness where he and his men rescue a Scotsman named Colqhoun ( Robert Carlyle ) who tells a spooky story of cannibalism . However , the story is not over yet . . . Obviously a very ambitious movie with some semblance of intelligence , this twisty movie is all over the map . If it were a dog , it would be a mixed breed . It incorporates elements of a classic western , a gory horror movie , and an oddball comedy . It has a decent cast ( although Jeremy Davies ' character Toffler is one of the wimpiest soldiers I've ever seen in a movie ) and a variable score that is just fine at some times and a little too , well , WEIRD at others . ( For some reason , during a harrowing chase scene , upbeat country music is playing . ) Logic dictates that when we rate movies , we rate them against others of their type , although we can't really do that here ; this movie really seems to fall in a class of its own . ( just for being a little different )
Second verse , same as the first . . .	Large , slobbering , lovable St . Bernard Beethoven finds himself a girlfriend and they make four adorable puppies . George Newton's ( Charles Grodin ) children find out about the puppies and raise them in their basement without their dad's knowledge . Adding to the complications is that Beethoven's new mate is being withheld from her owner by the man's nasty soon-to-be-ex-wife in order to extract from him a large sum of money . Straightforward , easy-to-take , and basically amiable sequel tugs at the heartstrings just as surely as the first film . Not much to offend here , with the EXCEPTION of what I'm sure would have been a sexual assault committed against the eldest Newton daughter ( Nicholle Tom ) . ( Don't worry , the creep doesn't even get a chance to make one move - you can just tell what his intentions are . ) Rest assured , every character in this movie who's even slightly villainous gets their comeuppance - and do I really need to say the word SPOILER when I say that ? This is formulaic and predictable stuff . If like me you're a sometime sucker for a nice little dog movie ( and if you're the kind of person who automatically melts at the sight of puppies ) , this should be right up your alley - even if it IS silly . Followed by three direct-to-video-and-DVD sequels , with a new cast .
Entertaining to a degree .	AVPR picks up where its predecessor left off , and in short order a spacecraft carrying the new deadly menace of the " predalien " and a multitude of facehuggers has crash landed on Earth , outside a small Colorado town which is quickly infested . A sole Predator comes to clean house , while a small group of human survivors struggles to get to safety . This latest entry in the ongoing Alien and Predator franchises is long on action but short on sense and scares . It's got plenty of intense violence , slime , and gore ; at least I can say that it's not boring . The film-makers had cinematographer Daniel Pearl shoot everything very dark , which would have worked had they really been going for the traditional element of suspense , but in an action-oriented film of this kind , the result is to make things incoherent . The characters are hardly worth caring about , nor are their stories compelling or original in the slightest . I did appreciate seeing Reiko Aylesworth as a Ripley-style action babe ( a soldier who's just returned from Iraq ) , but the other performances are barely adequate . Its attitude of anything goes - children are not spared here , and there's one doozy of a creepy maternity ward sequence - does work in its favor . It's got some interesting details here and there - a fleeting glimpse at the Predators ' home world , or the ending that brings everything full circle - but overall it's pretty simple , straightforward popcorn fare , no matter how nasty or visceral it is . Folks hoping for more substance really ought to just re-visit the earlier entries in both the " Alien " and " Predator " series .
Another vision of an untenable future .	In this certainly interesting , thoughtful , and sensitively handled sci-fi tale , the Earth has become way too overcrowded . So the edict is handed down that from now on conceiving a child will be a crime punishable by death . Carol McNeil ( Geraldine Chaplin ) ends up giving birth anyway , and she and husband Russ ( Oliver Reed ) go to great lengths to hide their secret . Things go bad very quickly once their good friends George ( under-rated character actor Don Gordon ) and Edna ( lovely Diane Cilento ) discover the baby . The movie has some good ideas : the proliferation of smog outside forces people to wear masks , food rations are consumed in the form of a paste , people are given dolls meant to replace babies , and so forth . The sight of people being gassed to death for breaking the law provokes an undeniably uncomfortable feeling . The movie has an appropriately bleak look and feel although my main problem is that it's very slow and could have used a bit more spark . It's involving , but not as involving as I would have liked it to be . In any event , the problem of our lead characters is certainly easy to sympathize with . The acting is generally very good ; Reed and Chaplin are just fine as our risk-taking heroes and are well supported by Gordon and Cilento . Along the lines of other sci-fi pictures of the ' 70's such as " Soylent Green " and " Logan's Run " , " Z . P . G . " offers a chilling little tale that entertains well enough .
" Gray ? Our mangler's a zombie ! "	Well , not really . The killer in this low budget genre effort was supposed to be a zombie originally , but ultimately was turned into an alien instead . After an opening crawl / narration that really doesn't make sense when you think about it , our movie begins , as a creature ( which , curiously , seems to be dressed in human clothes ) begins mercilessly slaughtering people on a nightly basis . Former jailbird and successful author Roy Warner ( William Devane , in an atypical role ( and look ) for him ) teams up with ambitious TV journalist Zoe Owens ( Cathy Lee Crosby ) to track down the alien . " The Dark " is not without flaws ; my biggest problem was that the pacing is a little slow , which doesn't help since the movie isn't as interesting when the creature's not killing anybody and we're obliged to watch as the human characters hunt it down . However , it's undeniably a moody little tale ; the film-makers really do make this a genuinely dark film and go the now familiar route of taking their time to reveal the creature . One interesting gimmick is to always have a blind man character sort of announce the presence of the creature . Maybe it ultimately gets a little cheesy when we see the creature's m . o . - it shoots lasers from its eyes - but it's never unbearably cheesy . The climax , where the creature fights it out with the cops , is undeniably the best part , for then things get a little lively . The music score is enjoyable in a campy sort of way - it features overbearing " whispering " ( " The . . . DARK . . . ness ! ! ! " ) before " Friday the 13 " made the " ki-ki-ki-ma-ma-ma " sound effect an integral part of the scoring of that series . The acting in the supporting roles is typically more amusing than that of the leads : Richard Jaeckel as a surly detective , Keenan Wynn as Crosby's swaggering boss , Biff Elliot as Jaeckel's comic-relief partner , Jacquelyn Hyde as the psychic who predicts one of the creature's victims , Casey Kasem ( that's right ) as the police pathologist . Look for Kathy Richards ( now better known as Kathy Hilton , mother of Paris ) as the first victim , and Philip Michael Thomas of ' Miami Vice ' fame as a gang leader . It's not altogether satisfying but I have to say that I did enjoy it to some degree . It's silly but generally agreeable low-budget genre fare . One might simply have to be , like me , partial to this sort of film to begin with .
So-so horror movie with some good moments and scenes .	From director Umberto Lenzi comes this mildly enjoyable variation on the standard zombie movie . Human beings get exposed to radiation and slowly rot into putrid killers that slaughter uninfected folks with a wanton aggression . TV journalist Dean Miller ( Hugo Stiglitz ) and his wife Anna ( Laura Trotter ) , a doctor , try to escape as the world starts to get over-run by the decaying monsters . Intended by the director as a meditation on the horrors of radiation , and inspired by a real-life incident , this can also be seen as a parallel to insidious diseases such as AIDS and cancer . He didn't want the movie , or the killers , to be too similar to what audiences had already seen in the works of George A . Romero and Lucio Fulci , and wanted it to have some basis in reality with touches of fantasy . Ultimately , though , the movie doesn't offer us much that we're not already familiar with . The good intentions just outweigh the results here . It does offer some lively scenes ( it's particularly amusing to see a televised dance routine broken up by an attack ) and the killers are pretty ferocious . However , it's not as gory or outrageous as I was led to believe . It has its moments , but comes up short in terms of delivering the truly , deliciously repulsive from-beginning-to-end violence that I was hoping for . I enjoyed seeing performers such as Eduardo Fajardo ( " The Killer Must Kill Again " , " Ricco " ) and Stefania D'Amario ( " Zombie " ) , and Trotter is appealing enough as the female lead . Hugo Stiglitz is adequate at best as a gruff , no-nonsense type of hero ( Lenzi was hoping for either Franco Nero , Fabio Testi , or John Saxon for the role , but the casting of Stiglitz , popular in Mexico at the time , was a decision forced on him by his producer ) . I was a little disappointed by this one , although the cyclical quality of the story struck me as an interesting touch . Zombie cinema has certainly been better served than this .
Worth checking out .	" Deranged " is a little , low-budget B-picture of the 1970's and another of the handful of thrillers to be inspired by the real-life exploits of Ed Gein . Other titles include , of course , the more well-known ones : " Psycho " , " The Texas Chain Saw Massacre " , and " The Silence of the Lambs " . Retired character actor Roberts Blossom offers a riveting performance as the Gein-based farmer Ezra Cobb , a seriously disturbed man who goes over the edge when his domineering , nasty , senile old bat of a mother ( Cosette Lee ) finally passes away . Ezra , or " Ez " as people call him , takes to robbing graves , originally to help treat his mother's withered corpse , and then to give her some " company " . Then he graduates to stalking live prey . This minor little film is rather light on horror , although it will still keep some people away because of some graphic gore ( Tom Savini , in one of his earliest gigs , was a makeup artist ) . For a very short film it tends to plod a lot , and it is not altogether satisfying . It also comes to a somewhat abrupt conclusion . There are some reasons why I still found it interesting : as the trivia page notes , this movie is actually more faithful to the true Ed Gein story . There is also a narrator ( Leslie Carlson ) who drops in again and again to explain events , giving the film a pseudo-documentary feel . Last but not least , there IS Blossom's performance , savvy enough to invoke viewer sympathy at least until he starts killing live women . Filmed in Canada .
If you see something weird by the side of the road , for God's sake do not get out of the car .	Sam ( the late Philip Sayer ) is playing with son Tony ( Simon Nash ) at their cottage when everything gets dark and windy and Sam is abducted by aliens in an admittedly decent opening . Three years later , Sam returns , leaving a trail of mutilated corpses in his wake . It just goes to show you that Brits can be every bit as good ( or as bad ) as the Americans in giving you a very modest little genre effort that succeeds simply because it's trashy and disgusting and doesn't pretend to be anything more . In the director's own words , it's a " rubbish " film . The movie is guided by its almost too impressive splatter - this is one incredibly gory film . The favorite I - gotta - rewind - this - and - watch - that - again moment has to be the one involving the birth of a fully grown man . That said , it is a rather creepy , intense minor shocker with an electronic score ( by the director ) that is kind of laughable at times but just seems to work for the film . The actors are real troupers , considering what they have to go through here , with quite the uncomfortable fate for future Bond Girl Maryam d'Abo , playing the French nanny Analise . I think that it's fairly amusing nonsense , although not precisely the kind of stuff that elicits a lot of chuckles . It's actually more of a squirm-inducer , especially considering the sexual nature of some scenes . If you like your low budget science-fiction / horror pictures grim , eerie , and downright disgusting ( and don't particularly care for happy endings ) , this may be the movie for you .
It can give a horror fan a fair number of chuckles .	A bunch of dumb teenagers ( including " Gremlins " lead Zach Galligan , Deborah Foreman , Michelle Johnson , and Dana Ashbrook ) attend the midnight showing of a waxwork exhibit - seemingly just for something to do . These displays have the ability to trap each viewer in another time and place where , once they become victims , they become part of the display . Displays include a werewolf , Count Dracula ( the always hilariously wooden Miles O'Keeffe ) , zombies , the Marquis de Sade ( a campy J . Kenneth Campbell ) , and others . Eventually , somebody has to be left to do battle with evil waxworks owner David Lincoln ( David Warner ) , in a full-out final battle royale . I'll admit that I enjoyed " Waxwork " to a certain extent . It's a highly amusing 80's product , marking the film-making debut of writer / director Anthony Hickox ( son of director Douglas Hickox ) , made as a knowing and fanciful tribute to classic characters of horror . Portions of it drag , unfortunately , and it's really a lot more amusing than scary . But speaking as a horror fan , it's nice to see a mass congregation of these characters . The film does offer some genuine fun ( veteran actors Warner and Patrick Macnee are more enjoyable than their youthful co-stars , although John Rhys Davies has precious little to do as the werewolf ) . Good production design and costumes and plentiful gore also add to the entertainment value . The " Night of the Living Dead " homage sequence is in black & white , which was another nice touch . Overall , the movie has a playful approach that gives it some appeal . As an 80's update of the " wax museum " subgenre including such earlier films as " House of Wax " , it works out alright . Reasonably entertaining . Director Hickox appears on screen as the English Prince .
I thought that this one was pretty good .	Frank Morrison ( John Travolta ) is a hard-working boat builder and devoted dad who is naturally wary of the new man ( Vince Vaughn ) in his ex-wife's ( Teri Polo ) life . His wariness turns into outright distrust when his son ( Matt O'Leary ) says that he saw this guy commit a murder . The problem is , nobody will believe the kid because he has a history of lying and getting into trouble . Frank becomes the only one who will believe the kid's story . Enjoyable thriller is maybe a little bit better than most because it's actually mostly believable instead of contrived . It's a modest little movie , predictable as many thrillers are , but not unbearably so . It is also helped by genuinely good acting , especially by Travolta and Steve Buscemi , who plays the murdered man ; refreshingly , Buscemi's character is not as quirky as others he's played before . Even O'Leary as the kid delivers an acceptable performance . The only thing that I had a problem with was that Polo looks a little too young to be playing the mother of a 12-year-old . " Domestic Disturbance " is a good vehicle for Travolta and a good directorial effort for Harold Becker .
This might be too low in the sex and violence departments for some viewers .	Police detective Judd Austin ( Leonard Mann ) has an interesting case on his hands . A motorcycle-riding savage who wields an awesome looking knife - and whose head is always concealed by a helmet - is butchering several lovely young ladies by chopping off their heads , and has a recurring modus operandi of leaving the heads in water . What the victims have in common is that they're all attending night classes at a college , and one class in particular , taught by an anthropology professor named Vincent Millett ( Drew Snyder ) . This mild horror movie would most likely fail to really satisfy a slasher buff , because it plays more like a cop movie / mystery-thriller that happens to have a slasher approach . Two of the key elements of slasher fare - overt on-screen violence and bountiful female nudity - are not to be found here , even if there is a little bit of gore on screen . It's ultimately too tastefully done to therefore rate as a really good movie of its type . The mystery element doesn't really work out ; the red herrings here are obvious red herrings . That said , it was nice to see some stylish touches here and there . Following the example set by " Halloween " , it begins with a flourish with an interesting murder set piece . Some of the story twists and details are rather amusing . And director Ken Hughes ( This is certainly a long way from his other efforts like " Chitty Chitty Bang Bang " ! ) keeps it moving steadily and prevents it from ever being too dull . And Brad Fiedel supplies an effective music score that's scarier than the movie that it's accompanying . Mann and Snyder are acceptable in their performances , and Joseph R . Sicari provides some amiable comedy relief as the wacky partner , but " Night School " is ultimately a showcase for the ravishing Rachel Ward , in her first feature film appearance . It's a reasonably entertaining movie that does have its moments .
Don't let the title steer you away . . .	. . . this is a fun curio from the 1950's , an amusing murder mystery set in a carnival , with the star attraction , Goliath the gorilla , part of the plot . Nice guy employee / law student Joey ( Cameron Mitchell ) tries to figure out what's going on , as suspicion shifts from one character to another . Originally filmed in 3-D ( and very vibrant color ) , it's a surprisingly fun B flick that belies its silly title . Some folks should have fun trying to figure out who done it . Ultimately , I agree with the consensus that it's lightweight and not exactly memorable stuff , but it's hard not to like . A simply excellent cast punches everything across : Anne Bancroft ( looking extremely delectable in her skimpy acrobat costume ) , Lee J . Cobb ( as a weary detective ) , Raymond Burr ( as the carny boss ) , Peter Whitney ( as a menacing-looking gorilla handler ) , Lee Marvin ( who supplies some good chuckles as a comedy relief cop ) , and Billy Curtis ( as a carny worker ) all do fine work . It may seem a little odd to see such distinguished actors in this film , but that's what makes it so interesting . Well paced , humorous , and leading to a finale that seems like a very low rent homage to " King Kong " , " Gorilla at Large " is not destined to be a classic , but it's fairly entertaining all the same .
" Cops ! JS ! Screw ! "	The delivery of these three words by Dana Elcar gave me a big laugh , and probably more entertainment than the balance of the film ! That's not to say that it's a bad film . While the plethora of twists and turns require one to pay close attention , it's a slick and quick-paced mystery / thriller that provides Charles Bronson with one of his better roles ( he also happens to give one of his better performances ) . Bronson also gets a truly excellent supporting cast . John Houseman seems to be relishing his role as a devious rich man who hires Bronson's ex-newspaper columnist / would-be novelist as a " go-between " ; that is , his job is to exchange a hefty sum of money for a set of ledgers that had been stolen from Houseman . Nothing is quite what it seems in this movie in which Bronson has to figure out what is going on , and who is what , while extricating himself from the mess he's gotten himself into . People start dropping off left and right until a showdown at Houseman's estate . A decent film that should deliver the goods for Bronson fans . However , the biggest attraction for me remains , as it was the first time that I saw it a number of years ago , the chance to see a much younger Robert Englund and Jeff Goldblum as two of the three punks who attack Bronson at one point . Jacqueline Bisset , Maximilian Schell , Harry Guardino , and Harris Yulin round out the main cast ; other players include Michael Lerner , Elisha Cook Jr . , Dick O'Neill , and Daniel J . Travanti . The late , legendary stuntman Dar Robinson plays a guy falling to his death . Composer Lalo Schifrin contributes a typical 1970's style jazz score that instantly reminded me of his " Dirty Harry " work . It's nothing special although I would definitely consider it superior to some of the films Bronson headlined in the 1980's .
An okay time filler , but finally comes to life in the last dozen minutes or so .	Here's a memorable TV anthology made in the days when the ' movie of the week ' was the big thing , back in the 1970's . It's based on a trio of Richard Matheson stories , with the first two scripted by William F . Nolan , and the third - the most effective - by Matheson himself . If nothing else , it serves as an exemplary showcase for the talented , offbeat veteran actress Karen Black , appearing in all three episodes in a variety of character roles . " Julie " has her playing a spinster-type teacher , taken advantage of by an impossibly creepy student ( Robert Burton ) , who comes on to her , takes her to a drive-in where he slips a drug into her soda , takes her to a hotel , and takes compromising photos of her . He's not done with her yet . . . but she has a surprise in store for him . " Millicent and Therese " features Black as two wildly different siblings at odds with each other . Millicent is a repressed type , similar to Julie in the first story , convinced that Therese ( a flamboyant sexpot ) is a Satanist and murderer and determined to put an end to her wicked ways . Finally , " Amelia " ( based on the Matheson story " Prey " ) stars Black as a lady who can't decide between spending time with her obviously clingy mother and her new boyfriend . The Zuni fetish doll she has purchased for the boyfriend comes to " life " and terrorizes her and attacks her in some highly stylized action scenes ( as has been said before , the makers of 1988's " Child's Play " may very well have been inspired by this tale ) . Each of the stories comes with a twist ending , although I have to say the second story's twist I saw coming pretty much from the start ( and if I saw it coming , you probably will too ) . The best , of course , is saved for last . It's just perfect . I gotta love that final image . It's fair entertainment until those final dozen minutes , and then it really grabs one's attention . In addition to Black , some familiar faces like John Karlen ( ' Cagney and Lacey ' , " Daughters of Darkness " ) , George Gaynes ( ' Punky Brewster ' , the entire " Police Academy " series ) , and Gregory Harrison ( ' Falcon Crest ' ) can be seen in supporting roles . Black , director Dan Curtis , and writer Nolan re-teamed for the theatrical effort " Burnt Offerings " the following year .
This should deliver the goods for some horror fans .	The Djinn ( Andrew Divoff ) , or genie if you want to call him that , escapes from his imprisonment inside a gem , and stalks L . A . looking for Alex ( Tammy Lauren ) , the one who inadvertently set him free . Since he wants a quota of souls , he grants wishes to all those in his path , but puts a horrible spin on each of them so that each person is punished rather than rewarded . Once he has granted three wishes to Alex , his kind will be free to take over our world . The mythology and admittedly slim plot are really just set-ups for an hour and a half long assortment of gruesome set pieces . " Wishmaster " is a lively affair , and as befitting a directorial effort by a makeup effects veteran ( Robert Kurtzman ) , it's just bursting with gore . A lot of it , however , is actually kind of cartoonish and outlandish , more " fantasy " type gore than " realistic " type gore . I loved that skeleton that ripped free of its owners ' body ! The way I see it , this is a film basically for horror fans , made by horror fans . The cast reads like a virtual Who's Who of horror , with Candyman ( Tony Todd ) , Jason ( Kane Hodder ) , Freddy ( Robert Englund ) , The Tall Man ( Angus Scrimm , a . k . a . the opening narrator ) , as prime examples . Writer Peter Atkins , also a genre veteran , even names some of the characters after noted science fiction authors . Divoff is positively great as The Djinn , and in addition to his scenes in the costume and makeup , plays several scenes as Nathanial Demerest , a human disguise for the creature , doing so with a subtly sinister charm . Lauren is okay as the heroine , a little tougher than some horror movie bimbos ( she plays tennis and coaches girls ' basketball ) but also a tortured kind of lead ( there was a traumatic incident in her childhood ) . Be on the lookout for the late Buck Flower , once again playing a bum like no-one else can , and reeling off some great improvised insults . Overall , a wild , entertaining film that of course created a new franchise monster that went on to appear in three direct-to-video sequels ( two of them without Divoff , unfortunately ) . Director Kurtzman is the guy killed by the piano .
Blaxploitation meets the horror genre in a hip early 70's vampire flick .	Lively and amusing hybrid of blaxploitation and low-budget horror in which African Prince Mamuwalde ( a very dapper William Marshall ) goes to visit Count Dracula ( Charles Macaulay ) , seeking his support in ending the slave trade . However , the twisted Count decides to curse Mamuwalde with the trait of vampirism . A few centuries later , Mamuwalde rises from his coffin in contemporary Los Angeles , becoming fixated with Lisa ( Vonetta McGee ) , the reincarnation of his long-ago bride , Tuva ( also played by McGee ) . Tracking him is determined Dr . Gordon Thomas ( an engaging Thalmus Rasulala ) , a Van Helsing variation who doesn't take long to realize that he is dealing with a strange situation . Marshall , blessed with an effortless air of dignity and a deep , rich voice akin to that of James Earl Jones , is a good choice for the lead . McGee and Denise Nicholas are attractive co-stars who do more than just provide decoration . They are both very appealing . Canadian legend Gordon Pinsent is good in the role of Thomas's colleague . One welcome touch is the casting of legendary Hollywood character player Elisha Cook as a hook-handed coroner . The film itself is fun , a spirited , urban African American spin on the traditional vampire story . It's not what I would consider scary at all , but it delivers a few good jolts , is paced well , and is generally hard not to like . The music is good , including some show-stopping on screen performances by The Hues Corporation . " Blacula " is basically solid , infectious entertainment , and worth a look . Followed by " Scream Blacula Scream " the following year .
Stop Me If You've Heard This One Before . . .	Tom Selleck plays Jimmie Rainwood , an airplane mechanic . He loves his pretty wife and his decent , ordinary life ; however , two nastily corrupt detectives ( David Rasche , Richard Young ) burst into his house one night thinking he's a drug contact ( they got the wrong address ) . He comes out of his bathroom wielding his blow dryer , they think it's a gun , shoot him , realize their mistake , and plant a gun in his hand and drugs in his house . Of course , the court ignores Jimmie's side of the story and believes the cops , and he learns the facts of prison life when he's sentenced to six years . The ages-old story of The Innocent Man Set Up By Bad People gets a routine workout here ; this is predictable , cliched stuff with corny lines and stock characters . Yet , incredibly , I still enjoyed it . Even a movie such as this can work if it pushes your individual buttons , and this one pushed mine . Decent entertainment . Rainwood emerges as an amiable if somewhat sanctimonious guy ( same goes for his wife , played by Laila Robins ) . The villains are such worthless jerks that they can't get punished soon enough . Best of all is Oscar winner F . Murray Abraham's performance as the savvy veteran convict who teaches Rainwood the finer points of prison life . I gave it .
Pretty enjoyable .	After a spacecraft that had landed on Mars returns to Earth , a crew member is brought back with a rather hideous infection . In order to know what they're dealing with , doctors insist that the other survivor tell their doomed story , which makes up the balance of this picture . " The Angry Red Planet " has a slow and talky first half made up for by the interesting and innovative approach to the action on the Martian planet . The intense visual treatment referred to here as " Cinemagic " makes the movie quite impressive to look at ; everything is in shades of red and while many of the landscapes are obviously matte paintings , they're more provocative than cheesy . We also get treated to some rather amusing special effects - a three-eyed Martian ( played by actor Billy Curtis ) , an enormous man-eating amoeba , and especially the spider with the bat head . For me , any problems with the script or pacing were successfully counter-acted to a degree by all of this gimmickry . It's also an amusing artifact of the politically incorrect age of movie-making to have a macho hero ( Gerald Mohr ) who's a smug sexist , although his insistence on addressing his female colleague ( Nora Hayden ) as " Irish " instead of " Iris " gets old fast . The acting in this movie , for the most part , is not so hot , although it's nice to see two actors from " The War of the Worlds " - Les Tremayne and Jack Kruschen - perform here as well . The kind of thing that one might see playing late at night or early in the morning on cable channels , this is decent enough viewing for people like me who have a place in their heart for the sci-fi / horror favorites of the ' 50's and ' 60's .
Has anybody got any Raid ?	H . G . Wells adaptation in which normal-sized ants become aggressive giants after being exposed to a leaking barrel of toxic waste . This takes place on an island where veteran ice queen Joan Collins ( whose performance here is pure camp ) is showing a bunch of losers some supposedly prime island property . . . a bunch of losers whose destiny , clearly , is to become nothing more than ant food . Actually , this is an example of a cruddy movie triumphing BECAUSE it's so cruddy . The special effects are generally quite pathetic , and pretty much all of the characters are a bunch of worthless morons who I would hope would die gloriously - especially the horny , cowardly , and miserable rat Larry Graham ( Robert Pine ) . Does this guy ever deserve what he gets . Incidentally , I would like to know if John Williams has ever sued Dana Kaproff , the composer of this movie , for so blatantly ripping off the " Jaws " score . It sounds just like it at times . I kind of liked seeing Pamela Susan Shoop in an earlier role . I know her basically from " Halloween II " , and didn't recognize her here right away - the blonde , shorter hair kind of threw me off . If no other good comes from this movie , at least it's motivated me to seek out the Wells story . It comes up with a howlingly absurd twist - taking place about 78 minutes into the movie version - that struck me as deliciously goofy and kind of in tune with other out-there ideas common to bad 1970's era sci-fi . " Empire of the Ants " is very stupid , and very , very funny . Now I see why this was paired with 1977's " Tentacles " on an MGM Midnite Movies double feature DVD .
Still pretty funny to me ten years later .	Jim Carrey , in his first film starring role after achieving genuine stardom being the " token white guy " on TV's ' In Living Colour ' , plays the title character , who is hired by employees of the Miami Dolphins football team to locate and retrieve Snowflake the dolphin , the beloved mascot of the team . I really laughed hard when I went to see this in theatres ten years ago , and while I am smart enough to know how crude , silly , and infantile THE MOVIE ITSELF really is , I can't deny that I still laugh a lot . That is thanks in no small part to Carrey , who plays the role in all his manic , face-making , body-contorting glory . Carrey manages to be always funny in this role and he single-handedly manages to save the film from what might have been a disaster with a less talented comedic actor in the lead . As in " Liar , Liar " ( which re-teamed Carrey with " Ace " director Tom Shadyac ) everybody else is the straight man . There are no other funny roles . ( Then again , that seems to have been the pattern for most of Carrey's comedies , hasn't it ? ) Sean Young ( in what turns out to be kind of an embarrassing role ) and Courteney Cox both look great and there are some familiar faces in the supporting cast . Some of the real-life Miami Dolphins at the time appear on-screen , including coach Don Shula and quarterback Dan Marino . Network TV airings include a few minutes of footage not included on video and ( I assume ) DVD versions . This footage actually slows down the film and I can see why it wouldn't have made the theatrical cut . " You really love animals , don't you ? " " If it gets cold enough . "
" You speak Yiddish ? " " No . . . I read subtitles . "	Slapstick-filled parody of older film noir titles and more contemporary sex-oriented thrillers . The references to the more recent ones - " Fatal Attraction " , " Basic Instinct " , " Sleeping with the Enemy " , and " Cape Fear " ( 1991 ) are more likely to be recognized , but films like " Double Indemnity " and " Body Heat " take a ribbing as well . Veteran actor Armand Assante trades in his usual smoldering intensity for a Leslie Nielsen style deadpan comedy performance , and proves to be surprisingly adept . He plays Ned Ravine , who as a detective arrests criminals and then as a defense attorney gives them the best representation that money can buy . He is also so dense that he doesn't realize his unfaithful wife Lana ( Kate Nelligan ) intends to do him in . While this is happening a blonde femme fatale ( Sean Young ) is sinking her hooks into him . " Fatal Instinct " is a reasonably good film of its type - it has enough laughs to keep it watchable ; even if the quality and quantity of the jokes fails to measure up to material in say , the " Naked Gun " or " Hot Shots ! " series , I don't think it's as bad as some people might say . The cast gives it a good effort , with Assante and Young pretty much stealing the show . Director Carl Reiner cameos briefly , and there are a few other guest star appearances as well . One funny sequence makes good fun of the annoyingly " cute " Brown-Eyed-Girl montage from " Sleeping with the Enemy " , and I also had to smirk at the running gag with character Max Shady ( James Remar ) - a parody of De Niro's Max Cady from " Cape Fear " - always reading newspapers while stalking Ravine . Not a classic film by any means , but it's an entertaining enough comedy and that's all that really matters .
Good cast in a watchable enough slasher .	In a prologue , a man comes home , finds his wife in bed with a lover , and blows them both away , then turns the gun on himself . This quite effectively destroys the sanity of his son , who grows up to be a flute-playing , ax-murdering nut job played by none other than Frankie Avalon . Then the movie introduces us to nice girl Marion ( cute , cherubic Donna Wilkes of " Jaws 2 " and " Angel " ) who finds herself psychically linked to Avalon ( his blood was used when she needed a transfusion ) , seeing the crimes that he commits in her nightmares . Avalon seems like one of the unlikeliest choices ever for a slasher villain , but key to this movies ' success is that he's actually not bad ! He certainly seems to be relishing this change-of-pace role . Wilkes is easy enough to sympathize with , and co-stars Richard Jaeckel and Dane Clark do good work as , respectively , her alcoholic , cranky father and the local sheriff . Antoinette Bower of the original " Prom Night " plays the concerned mother , with Lenny Montana of " The Godfather " fame in a small role as " Skipper " . Montana even pulls triple duty here , co-writing the screenplay and co-producing in addition to acting . ( Sadly , it was one of his last roles . ) The movie doesn't have a lot of scares or suspense to offer , no nudity , and mild doses of gore ( which will undoubtedly leave some slasher fans pretty disappointed ) , but I found it still surprisingly watchable , moving along well to a reasonably entertaining climax at a saw mill . My major problem was the much too annoying electronic score that took a good deal of the effectiveness away from many scenes , especially scenes that should have been more tense . I wouldn't call this one an unsung gem , but slasher fans looking for the more obscure stuff might want to give it a try .
Decent enough B-movie .	This production from Roger Cormans ' Concorde films is an overall routine yet reasonably entertaining shocker about Elias Johnson ( Robert Lansing ) , the mayor of an island community , who , out of the best of intentions , has allowed a Dr . Morgan Hubbard ( Terri Treas ) to come to the island and conduct experiments . These involve contriving a new breed of cockroaches , relentless , numerous , and extremely hungry for the taste of human flesh . Franc Luz is local sheriff Richard Tarbell , Lisa Langlois his love interest Beth ( also the daughter of the mayor ) , and Stephen Davies ( in an enjoyably quirky performance ) the local exterminator in this movie that piles on the gore and effects , and maintains a fairly decent pace . With regards to those effects , the flying cat / roach hybrid is something that you will have to see to believe . Watch also the fate of the mayor : it may be the best set piece of the movie . Debuting director Terence H . Winkless , who received co-screenplay credit with John Sayles on " The Howling " , does a credible job at the helm here , with Rick Conrad supplying a fine music score . There's a nice little dose of humor ( in particular , the choice of music played over two of the roach attacks ) . For low-budget schlock , it offers a respectable amount of fun . If you are repulsed by roaches to begin with , then so much the better . I know I had a good time watching it .
" I thought you were dead . " " Yeah . . . I get that a lot . "	" Buffy the Vampire Slayer " and ' Firefly ' creator Joss Whedon took this stab at extending this long-running sci-fi / horror / action series by setting this sequel 200 years after Alien 3 . Ripley ( Sigourney Weaver ) has been cloned through a blood sample but the misguided morons responsible did it basically because they wanted to bring back the alien that was inside her . Because of this , the new version of Ripley , it turns out , has alien genes in her DNA . And , as could be expected , there are more aliens to run from / destroy before time runs out . " Alien : Resurrection " is directed by Jean-Pierre Jeunet , an auteur of " art " films like " Amelie " and cult films like " Delicatessen " who does fairly well with his first mainstream American genre film . There's a fair bit of innovation to this entry , including a sequence in which the characters are pursued by the creatures while underwater , and the creation of a new variety of alien offspring . For non-discriminating series fans , this may deliver the goods . It's certainly not boring , at least ; there is enough action , violence , and slime to keep it moving along . Interestingly , this entry drew a roster of capable actors to the fold , some of them old genre pros , and they include Ron Perlman , Brad Dourif , Dan Hedaya , Michael Wincott , a pre-'C . S . I . ' Gary Dourdan , and frequent Jeunet performer Dominique Pinon as the wheelchair-bound Vriess . Winona Ryder gets co-starring billing , and I have to give her credit for trying something different , but despite being a generally good actress , she just seems too out of place here . I just didn't think I could buy her in this sort of setting . I think it's reasonably entertaining , but like " Alien 3 " , it can't meet the standards set by the first two films , both modern classics of their kind . Still , you could do worse .
Perfectly acceptable low , low-budget schlock .	Not-bad Roger Corman quickie about cosmetics magnate Janice Starlin ( Susan Cabot ) , who , in order to remain competitive in her business , is intent on fighting the aging process . She realizes she's found an answer of sorts in mad scientist Eric Zinthrop ( Michael Mark ) , who proves to her that the royal jelly that he's extracted from wasps has genuine reverse-aging abilities on animals . She volunteers herself as a human guinea pig , only to turn into the title creature . While not without some intelligent aspects to the script ( by actor Leo Gordon ) - commenting on vanity , insecurity , the need to be competitive in any sort of industry or business - it's first and foremost a likable , if obviously extremely low-tech , little flick . Scary it's not , but Corman paces it with typical efficiency and gets good performances out of his main cast , including the winsome Barboura Morris , and the solid Fred ( a . k . a . Anthony ) Eisley and William Roerick , all playing the concerned employees with real earnestness . Corman regular Bruno Ve Sota turns up in a small , small role as a night watchman . ( You can even see Corman himself in an uncredited cameo role as a doctor at a bedside . ) The attacks and murders are actually on the surprisingly nasty side , showing a little more blood than I would have expected . The only disappointing element is , obviously the makeup effects , although that's entirely to be expected given the budget and the time when this was made . However , the picture gets a real debit , however , for that way-too-silly music score . These kinds of pictures often have a real sincerity to them that is appealing ; " The Wasp Woman " stands as a reasonably enjoyable film of its kind , taking its ridiculous premise seriously and delivering an endearing dose of B ( or should I say W for Wasp ? ) movie entertainment . Sort of remade as " Evil Spawn " in the 1980's , and officially remade by Corman for TV in the 1990's .
Sick sick SICK ! ! !	This memorably bloody cult horror movie from the early 1980's is about rural New Yorker Duane Bradley ( Kevin Van Hentenryck ) who arrives in Times Square and checks into the seedy " Hotel Broslin " , carrying his deformed telepathic mutant Siamese twin brother Belial ( whew ! ) in a basket . Their mission is to get revenge on the doctors who separated them and left Belial for dead . Along the way Duane falls for Sharon ( Terri Susan Smith ) , the receptionist of one of the ill-fated doctors , and Belial reacts with savage jealousy . Extremely gruesome , tacky , and outrageous horror that actually succeeds on its own simple terms . As films of this type go , it's actually pretty good . I was genuinely amused by the whole thing , not scared , but definitely entertained . There are not very many professional actors in the whole bunch , but some of them do manage to be pretty amusing considering ( especially Joe Clarke - " all alone in this cold , cruel world ! " . ) The film-makers even work in some interesting animated sequences when they need to show Belial in motion . Bottom line : it deserves its cult reputation .
Cute . . . to put it simply .	Josh Framm ( Kevin Zegers ) is a solemn , shy new kid in town who befriends a stray golden retriever whom he names ' Buddy ' . Before long , Josh has learned that his new companion can actually shoot hoops , and ' Buddy ' becomes a fixture on the court when Josh lands a spot on his school's basketball team . Harmless , routine , predictable , but hard to resist : I can't help but like a movie with such an endearing canine star , no matter how phony , unrealistic , or corny the script is , or how many stock characters it includes . The human actors give likable performances , but that dog is the real star . The movie actually fares better when it's serious ; the scattered slapstick scenes seem gratuitous and are directed and enacted without any real enthusiasm . It may not be high-quality stuff , but I'm not ashamed to admit that I like it . I like dog movies , what can I say ? ( Hey , doesn't that scene where Josh lures ' Buddy ' out of the bushes using pudding cups seem very reminiscent of a similar scene in " E . T . " ? Something to think about . ) I gave it .
Provides a reasonable amount of fun .	" Lost World " type plot of an expedition to a section of the Antarctic where there's a body of warm water . The team members run into inclement weather - not to mention a flying menace - that forces them to land . Where they land is a few thousand feet below sea level where time is stuck back in the Mesozoic era . Dinosaurs are a persistent problem , not to mention a severely traumatized survivor ( Henry Brandon ) of a previous expedition . Laying aside a lack of originality , and a budget too low to allow for more convincing special effects , " The Land Unknown " is still fairly good entertainment . It's got a good look ( and one very good looking female co-star in Shirley Patterson , who gets to dress somewhat skimpily for a fair portion of the running time ) ; the sets are well done . It's made with some skill ; director Virgil Vogel was also at the helm of other fantastical films from the era such as " The Mole People " and " Terror in the Midnight Sun " . He delivers some enjoyable thrills and keeps things moving steadily along , bringing the film in at a tight ' n ' trim running time of 79 minutes . Future Tarzan performer Jock Mahoney adheres to the tradition of rugged and stoic heroes from other sci-fi films of the era , with able support from William Reynolds , Douglas Kennedy , and Phil Harvey . Brandon is a stand-out as the crazed Hunter who tries to run things his way but is still reachable and it's nice to see him regain some humanity by the conclusion of the film . " The Land Unknown " stands out from other Universal 50's sci-fi efforts for being shot in CinemaScope . This allows for a feeling of grandeur even if it's essentially B level material . Vogel certainly knows how to fill the wider-than-usual picture . It may not be destined to be one of the classics of the period , but it's still fun of its type .
A good way to start .	This pilot episode for the now legendary series tells the story of Mike ( Earl Holliman ) , who has no memories of his past life and happens upon a small town where there isn't a soul in sight . As night falls , Mike sees one indication after another that there should be people around - yet he still sees nobody . As night falls he becomes increasingly desperate and unstable . Even almost 50 years after this episode first aired , the series holds up today . People who grew up watching it fondly remember it , and those new to checking it out ( such as I , who recently purchased the box set of the entire series ) discover its ability to tell interesting and offbeat stories with memorable revelations in half hour time slots . Holliman does a solid job , for the most part the only person on screen , engagingly delivering his dialog and believably portraying a man increasingly on the edge . His isolation is emphasized at all times ; the camera-work is quite good and Bernard Herrmanns ' score appropriately eerie . I didn't see that sort of revelation coming , either , which was a good bonus . It makes me quite excited to watch the series in its entirety and see some real imagination at work . It's also quite a gas to be able to recognize the " Back to the Future " set , this episode having been filmed on the same exact spot .
A nice independent little splatter fest .	A meteorite crashes to earth , unleashing a quick-to-reproduce toothy monster that , after gobbling up some dumb schmuck campers , comes to rest in the cellar of a suburban home . Here it multiplies like crazy and feasts on everybody it can . It looks to me like the balance of the budget went toward the effects . This film is packed to the brim with splatter - B-grade splatter , but pretty nasty stuff regardless . Ultimately , this is what makes this little film work as well as it does . For a while , I was more annoyed than tense , as the completely oblivious potential meals in the house go about their inane business . However , it eventually proved to be worth the wait , for the climax delivers the goods in all of its tacky , silly , outrageous glory . The film even delivers one unexpected death that is unfortunate and definitely creates a good shock effect . One of the characters is sort of standard fare for the genre : a young horror junkie who reads all the right magazines , watches all the right movies , and figures out how to mess up the creature but good in the end . At least one thing that struck me as amusing about that creature is its resemblance to " Audrey II " from " Little Shop of Horrors " ! A little-known film that should be of interest to hardcore low-budget horror fans everywhere . If you haven't seen it , I'm sure you'll like it .
Good enough .	Susan Sarandon and Natalie Portman play Adele and Ann August , a single mother who's the working definition of the word " dreamer " and her solemn , pragmatic daughter . Adele , wanting to make a fresh start in a big city , moves them from Wisconsin to California . Decent , if not exceptional or particularly memorable , with some serious and sad moments . It pushes some emotional buttons , that's for sure . Best thing it offers is a solid cast , and Sarandon and Portman are quite good in the leads - even if their characters are one-dimensional at times . Could be better , could be worse . I gave this one .
Very likable lovers-on-the-lam drama .	Bobby ( Paul Le Mat ) is a mechanic , and Rose ( Dianne Hull ) , a single mom . Neither of them has much in the way of prospects , and when they find each other , it's love almost at first sight . Their first date goes well until a bad joke turns deadly , and , convinced that no-one will believe their story , Bobby convinces Rose that they will need to start running . What made this work well for me was that Le Mat and Hull were very down-to-earth and appealing . They made their characters utterly real ; their relationship was poignant . And the supporting cast does fine : Martine Bartlett as Rose's loving mom , Robert Carradine as Bobby's ambitious friend Moxey , Noble Willingham as Bobby's helpful uncle Charlie , Cliff Emmich as an obnoxious loudmouth , and Edward James Olmos in a prominent bit as a pool player . But it's Tim McIntire who ultimately steals the show as the outgoing Buford , an acquaintance Bobby and Rose make on the road . The film is a great time capsule of L . A . and other California locations in the 70's . The eclectic soundtrack ( largely featuring early Elton John tunes ) is a big plus . The film has an interesting , gauzy sort of look courtesy of cinematographer William A . Fraker . Writer / director Floyd Mutrux gives some style to the presentation ; one example would be the car crash that happens to be set to the song " The Loco-Motion " . It's an appealing little movie leading to an effectively downbeat ending . With its good performances , sights and sounds of mid-70's California , and sensitive script , it's entertaining through and through and deserves to be better known .
This film proves that ants need not grow to enormous size to pose a threat .	Ants become highly intelligent and become a deadly threat in this sci-fi thriller directed by legendary title creator Saul Bass ( whose credits include " Psycho " and " Alien " ) . Two scientists , played by Nigel Davenport and Michael Murphy , set up shop in an isolated Arizona installation to study the phenomenon . This small-scale production is almost a two-character film , and Davenport and Murphy do well as the scientists with different specialties and approaches to handling crises . The film itself is very low-key and deliberately paced , with a smart script ( by Mayo Simon ) , creepy music ( by Brian Gascoigne ) , and stylish visuals ( art directors John Barry and Norman Reynolds went on to become the production designers on " Star Wars " and " The Empire Strikes Back " , respectively ) . The insect work by Ken Middleham ( who also supervised the insect work on " Bug " the following year ) is quite impressive . One sequence where an ant actually manages to defeat a preying mantis was definitely interesting . Granted , this film may test the patience of some viewers as some sequences go on for quite a bit , but it still has an eerie fascination going for it , as the insect world is not something that many of us see this up close . It's overall a subtly chilling movie with a provocative ending . Lynne Frederick ( widow of Peter Sellers ) is quite beautiful as the traumatized young woman who ends up confined to the installation with the two men . Trivia note : Helen Horton , who plays the ill-fated local Mildred Eldridge , was the voice of Mother in " Alien " . Fans of serious sci-fi fare should find this an intriguing little film .
Gave me a hankerin ' for tomatas . . .	Unrelentingly trashy hicksploitation flick with the novelty of plunking an African-American lead ( Leslie Uggams ) into redneck country . The lovely Ms . Uggams is jazz singer Liz Wetherly , who goes on vacation , only to fall victim to car trouble and get isolated in the back of the beyond . She stays at a cabin run by Bertha ( Shelley Winters ) , whose young companion , the title character ( an engaging Michael Christian ) who's an ambitious Elvis wannabe , takes quite the fancy to Liz . He's determined to have her , no matter what he has to do ! This is so far the only film I've seen where a rape is intercut with a scene of people watching two dogs get it on , all to the tune of a melodramatic song on the soundtrack . Oftentimes more stylish than expected , it's sometimes creepy , sometimes extremely sordid , and frequently downright hilarious . The film-makers completely immerse us in this little world , with great , flamboyant characterizations by much of the cast . Winters is right at home in the kind of part that seemed to be made for her in her latter days , Christian walks a fine line between being a real cretin and a real charmer , Ted Cassidy ( Lurch of ' Addams Family ' fame ) is the hulking and sullen Keno , and Dub Taylor is hambone judge and pool hall owner Floyd . In an interesting change of pace , Uggams ' character isn't altogether sympathetic , although she does a good job especially as the film goes on and her situation starts taking a toll on her . Far and away , the most priceless work is done by the great Slim Pickens , the sheriff who sucks on tomatoes while interrogating Uggams and asks such delicate inquiries as " Did he bite ya on yer beeps ? " The film ultimately gets quite ugly , but is nonetheless an amazing slice of trashy , obscure 70's B fare . With its rogues gallery of characters , its palpable atmosphere , and flair for the seedily nightmarish , it's something that one simply has to see for themselves . It's grim , gritty , and overall quite grandiose .
The picture quality on the MGM DVD is excellent .	Professor Morlant ( Boris Karloff ) is a dying Egyptologist who's acquired a jewel dubbed the " Eternal Light " . Believing that it will grant him immortality , he arranges to be buried with it . Someone steals it , however , and Morlant rises from his coffin in a relentless pursuit of his prized possession . The plot is interesting and fanciful ( and with a large number of twists to boot ) , and a variety of sets and fog-shrouded locations create a respectable amount of atmosphere . The picture does take quite a while to kick into another gear , with attention shifted from Karloff to the supporting characters for much of the running time until the final , rousing half hour . Then the formidable villain , covered in impressively hideous Mummy-like makeup , livens up the proceedings a great deal . Ominous , booming music by Louis Levy and Leighton Lucas is one asset , and strong supporting performances are another . Ernest Thesiger ( Prof . Pretorious in " Bride of Frankenstein " ) is flamboyant as the jittery servant Laing , Cedric Hardwicke quite amusing as the solicitor Broughton , and Sir Ralph Richardson ( in his film debut ) rather engaging as a friendly pastor . Kathleen Harrison supplies aggressive comedy relief as Kaney , while Anthony Bushell is also quite strident as the brassy Ralph . This is an enjoyably creepy little shocker with some great dialog and a fine , fiery finale . It has excellent scenes ; one I particularly enjoyed involved Karloff and Thesiger while the former is on his deathbed . Definitely recommended to fans of the horror films of this period .
Nicely done mad scientist tale .	This early sci-fi entry from Hammer Studios concerns lifelong friends Robin ( John Van Eyssen ) and Bill ( Stephen Murray ) . They develop a machine dubbed " the reproducer " , which creates copies of objects . They also happen to be in love with the same girl , Lena ( Barbara Payton ) . Bill is devastated when Lena chooses Robin , but decides to use the reproducer to clone Lena , creating Helen ( Payton again ) . However , because Helen is such a perfect copy of Lena , she has the same thoughts , feelings , and also loves Robin . Even more distraught than before , Bill tries to use electro-shock therapy to erase Helens ' memories , causing nothing but tragedy . Not bad at all , I think this works because the characters are likable enough , even Bill ( who wouldn't feel bad for a guy who loses two girls to the same guy ? ) . One can perfectly understand his actions if not condone them . As guided by prolific genre director Terence Fisher , it's character-driven , effectively dramatic , and moves at a slow , deliberate pace . Performances are good , with James Hayter the lovable old doctor who has nothing but fondness for these three individuals whom he watched grow up . Hayter also provides the narration . It's a good little cautionary story and low-budget sci-fi movie .
Decent slasher hijinks for those who don't take their horror too seriously .	This fairly amusing bit of junky nonsense involves an undead miner , Jeremiah Stone , who long ago made a deal with the devil and placed a curse - fairly typical stuff for a horror movie villain . What he really aims to do is keep other peoples ' mitts off his precious gold - by any means necessary , of course . When an all-too-typical troupe of 20-something idiots decides to play treasure hunt , they buy themselves a whole lot of trouble . " Silly " would be the easiest way for me to describe this . It sure isn't scary in the slightest ; right off the bat it shows the villain being resurrected and wastes no time in giving him victims to messily dispatch . It does have a feeling of " let's just have fun " to it and therefore is kind of hard to resist . Slashers fans need to be warned in advance , however , that it's pretty low in the sex department , and that , despite some decent splatter and makeup effects , may not be as gory as some viewers would prefer . Those interested ( such as I was ) by the presence of veterans such as John Phillip Law , Richard Lynch , Vernon Wells , Martin Kove , Jeff Conaway , and Karen Black should also know that most of their roles are rather small ( Law , Wells , and Kove were also associate producers ) . The inimitable Black makes the biggest impression , playing a nicely kooky ( if clichéd ) role , although Wells ( probably best known by most people as Wez in " The Road Warrior " and Bennett in " Commando " ) has fun as the human incarnation of the mad killer . As could be expected , not much can be said about the younger cast members , although I found Carrie Bradac really cute and appealing and Alexandra Ford is an undeniable hottie . If you don't mind a horror movie that makes you laugh rather than scaring you , you might find this up your alley . Even if it's standard-issue , disposable stuff , it's possible to derive some fun out of it .
Somewhat interesting trash flick .	Michael Stearns plays Mike , a sexually frustrated individual with an interesting moral attitude towards sexuality . He has no problem ogling naked dancers but when women start having sex with men that's when he loses it . He believes that when women actually have sex that's when they lose any sense of " innocence " and / or " beauty " . So he strolls through the Hollywood Hills stalking lovemaking couples at a distance , ultimately shooting the men dead with a high-powered rifle with a scope . The seeming primary reason for this movie's existence is to indulge in sexual activity over and over again . The " story " comes off as more of an afterthought . This is bound to make many a happily heterosexual male quite pleased as we're treated to enough protracted scenes of nudity ( the ladies here look awfully good sans clothes ) and sex to serve as a major dose of titillation . Of course , seeing a fair deal of it through a scope ups the creepiness factor considerably and illustrates the compulsion towards voyeurism . ( For one thing , Mike eyes the couples through the scope for minutes at a time before finally pulling the trigger . ) This is all underscored by awfully intrusive if somewhat atmospheric music on the soundtrack . Those with a penchant for lurid trash are bound to enjoy this to one degree or another . It even includes one lesbian tryst that confounds Mike and renders him uncertain how to react . It unfolds at a very slow pace , but wraps up with a most amusing ironic twist . It's a kinky and twisted rarity that if nothing else is going to definitely keep some viewers glued to the screen .
Not just a license to drive , but a license to LIVE !	Landmark 1980's teaming of " The Two Corey's " ( Haim and Feldman ) has Haim playing Les Anderson , who flunks his driver's test yet sneaks off with his grandfather's beloved Cadillac in order to keep a date with high school babe Mercedes ( Heather Graham , in her first significant movie role ) . " An innocent girl , a harmless drive . . . what could possibly go wrong ? " Try EVERYTHING . Loud , silly , but generally genial and hard not to like . This film marked the film directorial debut of Greg Beeman , who's been unable to follow up this film with anything worthy - two of his subsequent films were " Mom and Dad Save the World " and " Bushwhacked " . Enough said . Small wonder he sticks to television , mostly . Anyway , Haim is pretty engaging and he gets a good supporting cast . Carol Kane plays her role as his pregnant mom pretty straight , and Richard Masur is superb as his understandably flustered dad . The Haim-Feldman team works pretty well together . The one scene that doesn't work as well is the scene with the drunk driver . Yes , you can make the argument that it's in very bad taste , but I didn't like it basically because it just wasn't funny . Very much a product of the 1980's , with its upbeat soundtrack and funky fashions . I think it could be a good nostalgia trip for those so inclined . I like it - it's pretty fun . I'm glad it finally came to DVD .
Stands out among Bronsons ' other Cannon Films output .	The final collaboration between star Charles Bronson and director J . Lee Thompson for Cannon Films in the 1980's , " Kinjite : Forbidden Subjects " offers us something a little different than the usual hard-edged cop movies of the decade . Bronson plays a standard-issue character : a very tough and angry veteran vice detective , but who this time also happens to be a volatile bigot , trying to overcome his feelings of prejudice towards the Japanese . The movie also gives us a glimpse into a different culture and perspective to compare to our own , which is more than one can say for some action movies . Bronson plays Lt . Crowe , who has a vendetta against degenerate pimp Duke ( Juan Fernandez , who really sells his part ) because Dukes ' specialty is turning very young girls onto prostitution and drugs . Exacerbating manners is the arrival in town of Hiroshi Hada ( James Pax ) , who in a twisted turn of events molests Crowes ' own daughter on a bus , although Crowe , knowing nothing of this , is obliged to help out the man when Duke kidnaps his daughter . Remarkably nasty and sordid , this movie holds absolutely nothing back in portraying sleaze on screen . It really hits a nerve ; seeing young girls subjected to such degrading and despicable treatment works wonders at pushing emotional buttons . Thompson directs with conviction and efficiency , delivering a not-bad climax involving a dock and a crane . Time is also allotted for some humor - particularly when Crowe forces Duke to swallow his own watch ( you read that right ) . There's also a tragic sense of irony here in seeing Hadas ' daughter victimized instead of Crowes ' . Yet it does come down to a matter of characters paying a price for their actions - what happens to Duke is exactly what should happen to any criminal of his particularly odious type . Bronson shows once again that he was the real deal - a genuine tough guy . Even pushing 70 , he still looked like he could handle himself more than adequately . His solid supporting cast includes Perry Lopez as his partner , the under utilized Peggy Lipton as his wife , Amy Hathaway as his daughter , Sy Richardson as an accomplice of Dukes ' , Nicole Eggert as one of Dukes ' girls , Bill McKinney as Father Burke , and Marion Kodama Yue , who I think is quite effective as Hadas ' wife , who is unhappy about having to be an unconditionally supportive wife but understands that this is what is expected of her . Be sure to look out for such folk as Bill Brochtrup ( ' N . Y . P . D . Blue ' ) and future prominent film heavy Danny Trejo in small roles . This would turn out to be director Thompsons ' last film ; he passed on in 2002 . This grim , hardcore action movie is admittedly going to provoke strong reactions among some people , but I can't deny that it does what it does quite effectively .
Despite the large chorus of voice decrying this film as a worthless pile of excrement . . .	. . . I'll admit that I find it crazily endearing in its own thoroughly ridiculous way . Based on the comic book character created by Steve Gerber , this film works as a time capsule of over-the-top 80's cheese . The look of the characters and especially the music could only have fit into this era . Howard is a resident of a planet where ducks evolved instead of apes ( those who do embrace this film have got to love some of the Duckworld gags , such as a poster of " Breeders of the Lost Stork " , spoofing executive producer George Lucas's production of " Raiders of the Lost Ark " , not to mention the men's mag " Playduck " ) . He's zapped down to Earth by an errant ray beam , and tries to fit in , while forming a tender friendship with aspiring musician Beverly ( the always incredibly appealing Lea Thompson , looking quite fetching here ) . A sympathetic scientist , Dr . Jenning ( Jeffrey Jones ) , comes forward and admits that he's responsible , but in his efforts to send Howard back home , brings down an evil monster dubbed a " Dark Overlord " which intends to destroy the planet , along with others of its kind . It's a certifiably flaky affair that alternates more poignant moments with uproariously dumb comedic ones . A good deal of the dialog is lame , but I just had to laugh at it . The performers are really good sports : Tim Robbins has one of his earliest roles as the goofy wannabe scientist Phil ; listening to him talk like Donald Duck to Howard was just priceless . And Jones is obliged to go under heavy makeup and talk in a hilariously bad evil growl . They're all fun to watch , and a bunch of familiar faces ( Richard Edson , Paul Guilfoyle of ' C . S . I . ' , Tommy Swerdlow , Nancy Fish , Miles Chapin , David Paymer , Virginia Capers , and Miguel Sandoval ) play small parts , with Richard Kiley providing the voice of " The Cosmos " . Chip Zien is good as the voice of Howard . Part of my key to enjoying " Howard the Duck " is my refusal to ever take it too seriously . With its sometimes less than special effects ( The Dark Overlord is ugly but not that convincing ) , irresistible theme song , engaging title character , and plethora of lovably ridiculous moments and dialog , it makes for a pretty good time . ( One problem some viewers have is the potential for interspecies intercourse between Howard and Beverly , which admittedly is pushing things a bit for a movie with a PG rating , but it ultimately amounts to little more than flirting . I just find it one more likably off-kilter element of an overall amiable bit of pop-culture entertainment . ) Although infamous for being a major box office dud , this film has found its audience , and I'm not ashamed to admit that I'm part of it .
A fine film of its type .	The celebrated director Monte Hellman got his start working for Roger Corman in this low - budget creature feature produced by Corman's brother Gene . It's decidedly more moody , thoughtful , and genuinely creepy than other films of its kind , to be sure , with a strikingly original and gnarly monster . Alex ( Frank Wolff ) , a criminal mastermind , pulls off the heist of a mine office with help from associates Marty ( Richard Sinatra , Frank's cousin ) and Byron ( Wally Campo ) . Alex also has in tow a mistress named Gypsy ( gorgeous Sheila Carol ) . They hire outdoorsman Gill ( Michael Forest ) to guide them on a cross country ski trip where they end up at Gill's remote cabin . Described as " Key Largo " re-envisioned as a B monster movie , " Beast from Haunted Cave " was written by frequent Corman collaborator , screenwriter Charles B . Griffith . It really pays attention to character , and these characters are more complex than one might expect . Marty and Byron are not one-dimensional thugs , for one thing , and Gypsy is a young woman who's already haunted by bad luck and bad decisions . The actors are quite good ; it's really a pity that Carol had a very fleeting career . Some viewers might become a little impatient with a movie that is admittedly slow and talky and limited in its use of locations , but it's refreshing to watch characters that can maintain one's interest until the horror quotient of the movie finally comes into play . And the horror quotient is pretty successful . The sight of victims cocooned like spider victims works as an antecedent to a plot point of the " Alien " franchise ; it's very creepy to see people trapped this way , and especially when the monster feeds on them in a particularly brutal manner . Actor Chris Robinson , who's had a long career since including his own starring role in the killer snake flick " Stanley " , designed and played the Beast , and it's like no other low-budget monster of the period . ( Robinson also has a tiny second role as a bartender . ) Granted , it still bears the jerky movements of others of its kind , but it's so bizarre and freaky and , well , alien , to make a strong impression . The snowy setting is another big plus . " Beast from Haunted Cave " is worth catching for lovers of B monster movies , and also for those curious to see director Hellman's humble beginnings .
Not bad B movie ; offers some fun .	A pleasant amalgam of ideas borrowed from earlier movies , " Crash and Burn " is a reasonably entertaining picture from veteran low-budget film-maker Charles Band . In a barely hospitable Earth of the future ( the year 2030 , to be exact ) the ozone layer has disappeared and remaining outside for any length of time is dangerous . It's also a time of severe economic collapse ; corporations - especially one named Unicom - run the entire show . Unicom delivery man Tyson Keen ( Paul Ganus ) arrives at the TV station run by Lathan Hooks ( Ralph Waite of ' Waltons ' fame ) . Hooks ' station is actually a front for an underground organization bent on undermining the dominion of Unicom . Unicom , however , has sent a synthoid - basically an android that's human in appearance - to infiltrate the group and decimate them . One can certainly see the influence of movies like " Alien " , " The Terminator " , and " The Thing " , but " Crash and Burn " is still fun . The locations are well utilized ( the setting for this movie is truly desolate ) and the sets look good for the budget . The pacing is pretty good and the special effects fine . ( David Allen provides a giant robot for the conclusion , and Greg Cannom the nifty gore and makeup effects . ) The cast , also including a bevy of attractive ladies ( the appealing Megan Ward , and the sexy Eva La Rue , Elizabeth Maclellan , and Katherine Armstrong ) , the always entertaining Bill Moseley of " House of 1 , 000 Corpses " and " The Devil's Rejects " fame , and corpulent character actor Jack McGee ( ' Rescue Me ' ) , is quite game and enjoyable to watch . Plus , Bands ' composer brother Richard Band supplies another of his excellent scores . Overall , it's a reasonably entertaining movie of its type . It should deliver enough goods for loyal fans of B level genre fare . Screenplay by director J . S . Cardone , who was in the directors ' seat for the even better " Shadowzone " for Full Moon .
Fun to a point .	Two rival bowling teams made up of doltish and sex-crazed kids are all fair game for an extremely lethal killer while they have an after-hours game . I don't want to say too much more about what story this film has in order to avoid any sort of spoilers . It's fun in seeing them for oneself . Some of the revelations are actually pulled off very well ; I certainly didn't see them coming . " Gutterballs " works as an exercise in over-the-top sadism . It's not going to be for everyone ; only people who delight in heavy doses of sex , nudity , and in-your-face gore need apply . Writer / director Ryan Nicholson leaves little to the imagination , delivering one eye-popping set piece after another . One highlight is an impromptu operation performed on a transvestite . And one of the worst miscreants in the film , Steve ( Alastair Gamble ) is recipient of a particularly gruesome punishment . ( It's the sound effects that really sell this one . ) The bowling alley makes for a unique slasher film setting , with Nicholson utilizing the environment for its full potential . There are elements of very dark humor to the script , and the cool soundtrack is of particular interest for Canadian viewers due to use of tunes from the band Harlequin . The acting is admittedly atrocious , and very few of the characters have any sort of appeal . The dialog is endlessly littered with profanity . This becomes tiresome rather quickly ; these aspects of the film tend to diminish the enjoyment of the picture . In any event , it is refreshing to see a film so unafraid to be so completely politically incorrect . Nicholson certainly does know how to put on a show , albeit an outrageous , flamboyant , and relentlessly trashy one .
That pool did look pretty disgusting !	Not bad slasher entry with a standard " prank gone wrong " plot in which an unknown witness to said prank , perpetrated by a vindictive bunch of sorority babes on their flaky , cranky house mother , makes the girls pay the ultimate price . Well , I have to give writer / director Mark Rosman credit - he takes himself very seriously , and even if this entry can't match the more memorable thrills and scares of a classic like " Halloween " , it's certainly better than average . There's some graphic gore , maybe enough to satisfy the gore hounds watching , although the sex quotient is relatively minimal . The movie takes a while to get going - the first body doesn't drop until half an hour along , and like enough other films of this kind , it doesn't have a very satisfying ending , but overall , it's an appreciable little effort , aided in no small part by Richard Band's music . Heck , even the acting isn't as bad as you might expect ; it isn't altogether predictable , and the killer is a vague , mysterious , mute sort of entity . The film-makers also succeed at keeping the amount of cheese in the film to a minimum , although the rock group at the party just screams 1980's . Familiar faces include top-billed Kathryn ( a . k . a . Kate ) McNeil as the heroine , who would not only act in Romero's " Monkey Shines " several years later , but marry and divorce him as well , daytime soap veteran Eileen Davidson ( ' Days of Our Lives ' , ' The Young and the Restless ' , and ' The Bold and the Beautiful ' ) as the bad-girl ringleader , and actress Harley Kozak , co-star of such later films as " Arachnophobia " , " Necessary Roughness " and " The Favor " . I hadn't even heard of this film until a clip was utilized for the slasher documentary " Going to Pieces : The Rise and Fall of the Slasher Film " , but now I'm glad I got the chance to see it . It's actually pretty good of its type .
As always , the most hilarious " karate " moves ever by Mr . Knotts !	Luther Heggs ( Don Knotts ) , a typesetter for a small town newspaper , takes a shot at being an actual reporter when he is goaded into spending the night in a supposedly haunted mansion . The trouble is , no one will believe his story the next day and he is sued by the owner of the house who doesn't want his family name tarnished . The first of Knott's Universal starring vehicles after he had attained stardom on " The Andy Griffith Show " - his Luther Heggs is basically a variation on his Deputy Barney Fife role , as were his subsequent starring film roles . The film starts out uproariously . I had lots of good laughs because of Knotts ' nervous energy , his breathless line delivery , and his hilarious over-reactions to just about EVERYTHING . However , after a while , it degenerates ever so slightly into a comedy of more average quality , although it remains watchable throughout . Knotts is well supported here by a solid supporting cast , including some familiar faces , including fellow TV star Dick Sargent , the incredibly prolific Charles Lane , and Robert Cornthwaite as the defense attorney , who I will always remember for his hilarious Misguided Scientist role from " The Thing From Another World " . Funny music by Vic Mizzy , the guy who did the " Addams Family " TV theme . Both the " Attaboy " guy ( voiced by one of the film's screenwriters ) and the occult-obsessed ladies wear out their welcome eventually . Not great but better than many comedies that I've seen .
( Supposedly ) True Story Is Reasonably Entertaining .	Travis Walton ( D . B . Sweeney ) , Mike Rogers ( Robert Patrick ) , and others spend a busy day clearing away trees in the Arizona forest . When night comes , they spot a strange red light in the sky , and after a ' close encounter ' with an object in the sky and a strange light that zaps Travis , he ends up disappearing . Not surprisingly , when the other guys return to town , nobody will believe their outlandish story . I liked this movie ; I thought it was pretty good . I'm not sure that the movie really needed the scene where Travis ( after mysteriously reappearing ) flashes back to his experience on the alien ship ; that scene ultimately turns out to be really cringe-inducing . What makes it work are the earthbound scenes , well-acted by the principal actors , who have a tough time going back to normal and living their lives when everybody else thinks they are nuts ( the special detective overseeing the case , well played by veteran James Garner , thinks the men simply murdered poor Travis ) . All in all , it's an OK drama . The standout performance is by D . B . Sweeney , who really gives the impression that he has lived though something ( whatever it really was ) horrifying . Based on an allegedly true story told in Travis Walton's book " The Walton Experience " . I voted to give it .
Don't go upstairs !	Written by Steve Feke and director Fred Walton ; this movie is supposed to be based on an actual urban legend , isn't it ? Carol Kane plays Jill , a babysitter who receives ominous phone calls all night long from psycho ( Tony Beckley ) who repeatedly asks her if she has ' checked the children ' . This goes on until the cops are finally called to the scene - just 21 straight minutes of well-crafted suspense . However , the film takes an unfortunate detour for the next hour , focusing on the pursuit of the killer ( who's managed to escape from a mental hospital , naturally ) by John Clifford ( Charles Durning ) , the original detective to arrive at the crime scene , who's now a private detective ( this all takes place seven years later ) . The film follows Beckley around as he wanders aimlessly around the city and starts harassing dour , middle-aged Tracy ( Colleen Dewhurst ) ; then he picks up a paper with Jill's picture on the front and decides to pay her a visit for old time's sake . The only real reason that this film doesn't altogether succeed is because of the difference between its opening , ending , and the portion of the film in between . The ending is almost as suspenseful as the opening , so the film concludes well , but that middle portion kind of sticks out too much . It's like a creepy , somber drama / thriller that happens to be book-ended by scenes of pure suspense . I wouldn't go so far as to call the middle portion worthless - I thought that it was watchable enough ; however , other viewers may not be so forgiving . Nice to see actress Kane , known more for her quirky roles ( including Latka's bride on TV's ' Taxi ' ) , playing it straight in this movie . As usual , Durning is solid as a rock as the private detective . And Beckley , as the psycho , is utterly convincing .
Good , solid effort from Tobe Hooper .	In this re-working of a sleazy slasher favorite from 1978 , the tenants at Lusman Arms , an aged Hollywood motel that has clearly seen much better days , are being brutally slaughtered . Nell ( a likable Angela Bettis in a decent starring turn ) and husband Steven ( Brent Roam ) are new to the building . She becomes quite wary of the place almost immediately , and becomes especially concerned when Julia ( Juliet Landau , daughter of Martin ) , a friendly new acquaintance , disappears . Nell starts investigating the building and discovers parts of it that she didn't know existed , and before long , she's terrorized by the killer . Hooper returns to form with this well-made and nasty piece of work . The seedy and depressing ambiance of this run-down wreck of a building is captured quite well on film . Hooper and crew establish an ominous mood immediately and maintain it . They keep the lighting low and levels of darkness high . There's an intriguing level of mystery to the script and the killer as well . It's a true horror picture all the way through . The slow pacing of some scenes ( as Nell goes on her " haunted house walk " ) may make some viewers a little impatient , but what could really disappoint them is that for the absolute brutality of the murders , levels of on-screen gore aren't as high as one might expect . ( Not that there aren't some nice highlights , like the head-sawed-in-half gag . ) Also , there's at least one red herring that's a little too obvious , and the clichéd ending detracts from the overall effectiveness . Still , the movie works as a nice combination of atmosphere , oppressiveness , and mystery . Bettis receives particularly good support from Landau , Rance Howard ( father of Ron and Clint ) as the aged and solicitous Chas , and Greg Travis as the expectantly sleazy landlord Byron . Sheri Moon , best known for her work in husband Rob Zombie's movies , plays an early victim . Proof that Hooper does still have what it takes to make a genuinely good horror film , " Toolbox Murders " delivers good chills for a solid 95 minutes .
Pretty good stuff .	Sean S . Cunningham's third post - " Friday the 13th " directorial effort is a 1980's teen thriller about Abby ( Lori Loughlin ) and Loren ( Shannon Presby ) , two kids who move in with their aunt and uncle in Florida after a car crash claims their parents . They are soon menaced by bullying punk Eddie Dutra ( James Spader ) and his disgusting gang of flunkies . Overall , a watchable movie with likable protagonists and the kind of antagonists you just love to hate ( despite not being particularly imposing physically , Spader does exhibit a certain sleazy malevolence ) . It's nothing special at first , but the climax is worth waiting for , because if you enjoy seeing movie bad guys get what they deserve ( and these are REALLY bad guys ) , then you'll be glad you stuck around . I basically liked this for the cast ( the future star of the ' Friday the 13th ' TV series , John D . LeMay , has a bit part ) , especially Loughlin , and Eddie Jones as the uncle , a friendly , gregarious sort even if he is something of a dreamer . Eric Stoltz is on hand as a ' nice guy ' love interest for Loughlin , and Tom Atkins is in it , too , but not for very long . I also liked the songs . Since this film , Cunningham has continued to direct ( particularly the 1989 under water monster movie " DeepStar Six " ) but has mainly concentrated on producing instead . F . Y . I . The screenwriter of this film was future director Stephen Gyllenhaal , father of Jake and Maggie G .
I Thought It Was OK .	Dark , southern-Gothic thriller about young widow Annie ( Cate Blanchett ) who has psychic abilities and does readings for various people . Her testimony in a murder trial puts away a repulsive wife-beater ( Keanu Reeves ) , but she soon feels that the wrong man is in jail after receiving a number of supernatural clues . The kind of thriller I would describe as average , nothing more . It certainly has a fantastic cast ( even Keanu offers a decent performance ) , and it's made with style . I wasn't too surprised when the killer's identity was revealed , even though there's no shortage of suspects . Doesn't quite measure up to Sam Raimi's other films ; I think his best work will remain the Evil Dead films ( although I did like his film version of Spider-Man ) . I gave it .
Decent entertainment .	Set at a military academy in South Carolina circa 1964 , this fairly effective drama stars David Keith as a senior cadet asked by his mentor ( Robert Prosky ) to watch out for a new cadet ( Mark Breland ) , who is making history as the first black to enroll at the academy . Keith finds out about a secretive clique of cadets known as " The Ten " that make it their mission to make life a living hell for certain individuals . Not only does Breland endure a constant barrage of harassment , name-calling , and torture , he is in definite danger of becoming a victim of " The Ten " . Keith ultimately decides to put everything at risk - particularly , his friendship with his room-mates - to stand up for what's right . I haven't read the Pat Conroy novel upon which this movie is based , so I can't judge its degree of success as an adaptation . I can only judge it as a movie , and it's a good if not great drama that doesn't pack as much emotional punch as it should , but it entertains well enough . As a study in trying to reconcile the need to do the right thing with the obligation to uphold a certain set of ideals , I think it succeeds . It gets positively unpleasant at times - seeing what some of these students have to put up with is disturbing . Keith is a very personable lead , with a top-notch supporting performance by Prosky and a fine supporting cast including a number of future stars - Michael Biehn , Bill Paxton , Rick Rossovich ( these three , of course , having been all cast in subsequent movies like " The Terminator " and " Navy SEALS " ) , Judge Reinhold , and Matt Frewer . Rossovich is particularly engaging as " Pig " . Telling a good story with some reasonably effective twists late in the game , the picture maintains interest and has a good feel for the time and place ( despite being largely shot in England ! ) . It misses the chance to be something truly exceptional ( it goes more for predictability than nuance , and is wrapped up a little too neatly ) , but it's certainly not that bad either .
Not the usual serial killer film .	An under-rated actor who should be better known , Jeremy Renner , portrays real-life serial killer Jeffrey Dahmer in a very low-key but effectively unnerving story of a maladjusted loner struggling with his own demons . Much more a character study than a chronicle of Dahmers ' exploits , the movie moves back and forth between his life as a teenager and a young adult . Dahmer , despite being raised by a basically decent father ( the always solid veteran Bruce Davison ) and grandmother ( Kate Williamson ) , is portrayed as an awkward , solitary type who never quite fit in . This attempt to humanize a person ( whom many of us are familiar with to one degree or another ) whose story could very easy have been exploited for mere shock value is a daring and commendable attempt to do something other than typical serial killer fare . Renner is quite impressive as he really inhabits his role ; Artel Kayaru has a likable presence as the young man whom he befriends . The visual treatment of Dahmers ' past and present is effective ; use of camera-work ranges from passive observation in the past to active participation as he goes over the edge in the present . The use of lighting ( in his residence ) is a good visual indicator of a mind slipping into a dark and hellish place . While not for everybody , it's a thoughtful little drama that does fulfill the main goal of putting a human face on a real-life maniac whom it is easy to automatically write off as a one-dimensional psychopath . His actions are not shied away from , nor are they dwelt upon . It's a little too slow and quiet at times , but its subtly creepy feel does hold for the duration , resulting in a serial killer story with a difference .
" Do you understand the words that are coming out of my mouth ? "	Chris Tucker plays James Carter , a high-strung , motor-mouthed LAPD detective whose captain ( Philip Baker Hall ) is tired of his antics - and , yes , we've all heard that one before . The captain selects Carter as a candidate for an embarrassing job as a " babysitter " for Hong Kong detective inspector Lee ( Jackie Chan ) , who has been invited to America by the Chinese consul ( Tzi Ma ) , whose young daughter was violently kidnapped . The thing is , the FBI doesn't want a foreigner interfering with their investigation , so that's why they need somebody to " babysit " Lee and keep him away from the Feds . On the surface , this is a routine , familiar cop movie combining some unoriginal elements - the " fish out of water " , the " culture clash " , the " mismatched partners " bits , etc . However , it turns out to be genuinely entertaining and funny ; Tucker and Chan turn out to be a good team ( Tucker is particularly funny ) , and they are surrounded by a capable supporting cast . One thing I must say is that the identity of the mysterious villain " Juntao " will be unfortunately easy for some to guess . . . but I won't say more than that , I promise . It's light-hearted ( it manages to avoid being overly unpleasant ) , good-natured , and provides Chan with a few opportunities to show off his skills .
I really like it . . . gross-out factor and all .	Five college-age kids go to a cabin in the woods and spend one eventful night as almost all of them get demonically possessed . One of the goriest movies ever made , this is surprisingly slick for a group of novice film-makers . It is a wild , freaky and mean-spirited funhouse ride that fires away at you full blast . It's a pretty fun film provided you aren't prone to being easily disgusted . It is now an enormous cult hit with a loyal following , and two equally successful sequels . There's really no plot ; the film just throws shock after shock at you with a few quiet breathers in between . The cast is good and the makeup effects very impressive especially when you remember that this was done on a low budget . A great jumping-off point for director Sam Raimi , who has now achieved mainstream success with " Spider-Man " . Future film director Joel Coen was the assistant film editor .
Admittedly not a " good " film , but still kind of fun .	Based on the novel by Graham Masterton , " The Manitou " gives us a story of a young woman ( Susan Strasberg ) with an enlarged tumor on her neck that is determined to be a rapidly growing fetus . Furthermore , it's the current incarnation of an Indian medicine man who has lived on for 400 years and counting . While I usually give so-bad-they're-good films , this picture is so bizarre , fanciful , and schlocky , it takes on such a you've - gotta - see - it - to - believe - it quality , I felt I would boost the rating . If it's not one thing , it's another - an old lady levitating and careening down some stairs , hospital floors that turn into walk-in freezers , the creepy little Indian spirit Misquamacus ( played by little people actors Joe Gieb and Felix Silla ) and his striking orbs , a cheesy final act involving a 1970's era light show , and more . The way I see it , what's not to like about a campy , outrageous horror thriller that actually seems to be taking itself seriously ? I don't see films like this every day . The swan song for cult director William Girdler ( who tragically died in a helicopter crash while scouting locations for a follow-up film ) , he sure gave us one heck of a spectacle to sign off with . An amazing troupe of high-profile stars ( Tony Curtis , Ann Sothern , Burgess Meredith , Stella Stevens ) perform with amazingly straight faces , supported by such folks as Jon Cedar ( who acted in Girdlers ' " Day of the Animals " ) , Paul Mantee ( " Robinson Crusoe on Mars " ) , and Lurene Tuttle ( " Psycho " 1960 ) . Michael Ansara is Indian medicine man John Singing Rock , in a standout performance . Effects are dodgy , especially a lizard being guaranteed to induce some chuckles . But I have to tell you that that final act just beats it all . It's all punctuated by a nice Lalo Schifrin music score that , again , is incredible for sounding serious , as if you were watching a different kind of film . I'll say it - I enjoyed this film . As a guilty pleasure , this would have to rank as a new personal favorite .
Reasonably good , enjoyable thriller .	James Spader plays a young medical student caught up in strange events : 100 years to the day of Jack The Rippers ' legendary murders , a copycat is out and about , cutting up prostitutes in bloody fashion . To say much more , I might lessen the experience of watching this little , overlooked film from the 80's , marking the writing / directing debut of Rowdy Herrington , who started out working in the electrical department of films like " Humanoids from the Deep " and " A Nightmare on Elm Street " , and went on to direct such films as " Road House " , " Gladiator " , " Striking Distance " , and " Bobby Jones : Stroke of Genius " . Here Herrington establishes atmosphere fairly well and maintains a decent pace , offering decent showcases for star Spader ( who I will say turns out to play more than one role ) and cute and appealing co-star Cynthia Gibb , as his co-worker . Co-starring are such under-rated actors as Jim Haynie and Chris Mulkey , as investigating cops , in addition to Rod Loomis as Spaders ' testy boss at the clinic and Rex Ryon as a thuggish employee . Robert Picardo is particularly fine as the psychiatrist who agrees to lend his expertise to the case . I don't know if the mystery elements of this plot will work for some viewers ; some twists may come as a surprise and some may not . At least it kept me interested enough to see how it would develop , and its emphasis on character - the lead character , at least - gives it a little bit of edge . The standard-sounding 80's pop / rock songs help to firmly date it , and , overall , it's not much different from other films of its kind . But it's not bad , either , and deserves another shot at being discovered .
Seven Out Of Ten .	The debut picture for critic-turned-filmmaker Rod Lurie tells the story of the acting American President ( Kevin Pollak ) who is trapped in a Colorado diner by a snowstorm . He is faced with the horrible prospect of dropping a nuclear bomb on Baghdad in order to seek some sort of compliance from Udei Hussein , who's moved his troops and killed peacekeeping forces in Iraq . A good , decent picture with some fine performances and a good music score . Effectively serious without being overly melodramatic or over-the-top . Pollak , seemingly an odd choice to play the leader of the free world , takes his role seriously and manages to not embarrass himself . My personal favorite performances are by Sheryl Lee Ralph and French actress Clotilde Courau . At its best , the movie did well at engaging my emotions , maintaining interest , and making big moral considerations . I would absolutely DESPISE having to be in the President's position in such a situation . Overall , I would rate this picture a .
Four Out Of Ten ? It Deserves A Little Better Than That . . .	Based on a story by Peter Key , this Jimmy Sangster-scripted science-fiction / horror shocker is about a cloud resting atop a Swiss mountain named " The Trollenberg " that happens to be hiding a monster that looks like a tentacled eye and which kills its victims by decapitation . Nothing great , but offers a genuine dose of fun . It starts off as slow and talky , like other films of its kind , but gets better as it progresses , and the monster is not even shown on camera until the film is almost fifteen minutes from finishing . Legendary American actor Forrest Tucker is the lead , a heroic scientist , and an attractive pair of actresses , Jennifer Jayne and Janet Munro , play a pair of sisters with a novelty act who are vacationing in the area . Munro's character , it turns out , has real psychic abilities and seems to have a link with the monster . I've seen well-meaning , talkative , know-it-all scientist characters like Dr . Crevett ( Warren Mitchell ) in films like this one - I guess this kind of character had become a cliche pretty quickly . Also known as " The Crawling Eye " , I first heard of this film in the pages of Stephen King's epic-length novel " It " , believe it or not ! When I read that it was one of the few films to genuinely scare one of the characters , that made me interested enough to want to see it .
Good job by all concerned .	Adapted by veteran writer William Goldman from his own novel , this tale would almost certainly fall under the " psychological thriller " description common to a number of todays ' films . Sir Anthony Hopkins is Corky , an awkward , timid type who tries his hand at magic but doesn't become a success until he adds a distraction / sidekick in the form of his crude , outrageous dummy , Fats ( voiced by Hopkins himself ) . Corkys ' agent , Ben Greene ( a typically grandiose , wonderful Burgess Meredith ) gets for him a deal for a TV pilot ; however , Corky is afraid to fail the required medical exam , and hightails it to a lakeside cabin where he reconnects with high school crush Peggy Ann Snow ( Ann-Margret ) . As the film progresses , Corky becomes more hopelessly dependent on Fats and less and less stable . It's all about the acting in this intriguing , subtle , somber , and reasonably creepy little thriller : the endearingly humble and soft-spoken veteran thespian Hopkins offers proof that he's always at his best when playing characters who are , if not outright villainous , at least damaged or off-putting in some way . Yet , for all his inner anguish and antagonistic tendencies , Hopkins makes Corky sympathetic , helping what is essentially a deliberately paced film over its slower portions . Ann-Margret is definitely appealing as the wistful Peggy , and Ed Lauter does a bang-up job in the role of a boozing , distant , inadequate husband that is fortunately more than just one-dimensional . A little more blood is shown than one might expect for veteran actor-director Richard Attenborough , who agreed to direct this picture basically for the purposes of raising money for his Oscar-winning biopic " Gandhi " . Here he directs with a sure hand , making " Magic " a rather classy , rather than merely exploitive , affair . The cloudy skies throughout help to set the dour mood of this tragic story , and Jerry Goldsmith's truly excellent music score is perfect accompaniment . Fats himself becomes an appropriately uncomfortable presence ; there's just something inherently creepy about dummies and this film certainly makes that point clear , if nothing else . These are all good reasons for watching " Magic " , but the bottom line is to see it for Hopkins's performance . He is definitely the star attraction here .
A good slice of gory and goofy horror nonsense .	Jason ( Robin Askwith ) is in need of some R & R , and , through a company dubbed " Hairy Holidays " , is sent to a country manor where much more ghoulish happenings occur . There's a hapless dwarf ( a likable and funny Skip Martin ) , henchmen clad like motorcyclists , and a wheelchair-bound madman named Storm ( the wonderful Michael Gough ) who controls the minds of his victims . Jason determines to escape and prevent the intended fate of his cute and perky love interest Judy ( the winsome Vanessa Shaw ) . This has to be seen to be believed . It's a campy , ridiculous , and gleefully sadistic trashy flick . . . not necessarily good in any way , but entertaining to watch . It's sure not going for any amount of credibility ( wouldn't most people leave the moment they saw a bloody bed ? ) or any sort of real atmosphere or scares . No , it's the kind of thing that I have fun with , and laugh at , even if it's light on real " horror " . Even a " big " revelation concerning the bad doctor comes as no surprise . It dives into the blissfully bloody mayhem right off the bat . Some folks might get a real gas out of the lethal decapitating limousine . Co-writer and director Antony Balch does serve up the evil escapades of his movie with a certain relish , and gives us a fairly decent finish to enjoy . Any movie that offers a deliciously hammy Gough chewing up the scenery is worth checking out , and he doesn't disappoint . There's also an amusing special appearance by Dennis Price as the sleazy Pollack . If you just want to have a good time with a horror flick that won't require you to think very hard , you might want to give this one a try .
Well , I liked it .	A young pre-stardom Robert Vaughn stars in this early Roger Corman effort in which Vaughn plays a young member of a prehistoric tribe . He begins to question everything , including the rigid set of rules set down by the tribe long ago , and yearns to venture " beyond the river " to unravel the mystery of the area . This , despite warnings that a " god " that the tribe fears brings the touch of death to those it encounters . I was rather pleasantly surprised by this one . It has intellectual aspirations that transcend it being merely just a cheap prehistoric epic . It explores issues such as the stubborn adherence to classic traditions , the inability of some individuals to open their minds , and how fear , paranoia , and ignorance can prevent people from moving forward or making connections with other people . I couldn't talk about too many more of its messages without revealing the ultimate , last-minute twist , which I rather liked and fits right in with other films from the same era . It's one of those cases where the cheapness / cheesiness of the whole affair ends up not so much of an issue . There's a goofy monster present that would seem to be much more at home in one of Roger Corman's sci-fi films of the period ; the revelation regarding this creature does not come as a surprise given its incongruous presence , but considering how it fits into the film's overall scheme , I was able to accept it . I found the acting generally decent . Vaughn does well as the inquisitive and philosophical young man , with Leslie Bradley as his " symbol maker " father and Frank DeKova as an antagonistic member of the tribe . Corman regulars such as Jonathan Haze , Beach Dickerson , and Ed Nelson appear as other tribe members . Darrah Marshall is very , very attractive as the blond maiden who becomes involved with Vaughn . " Teenage Cave Man " is reasonably interesting entertainment and clocks in at just over an hour , so even those who don't care for it won't have to stick it out for very long . Remade for T . V . as part of the " Creature Features " series in
Reasonably amusing skewed vision of medieval times .	Taking inspiration from the Lewis Carroll poem , co-writer / director Terry Gilliam and actor Michael Palin came up with this story of a none-too-bright chap named Dennis ( Palin ) who wishes to marry Griselda ( Annette Badland ) but believes that he will have to come up in the world first . He journeys to a village being terrorized by a fearsome creature , and has a number of strange encounters with various citizens . Meanwhile , The King ( Max Wall ) decides to hold a jousting tournament to find a knight suitable for the task of destroying the creature . The humor here doesn't always work , but there are great little bits ( like the herald who won't shut up , or the beggar who figures self-mutilation is a great gimmick ) , and there are also lowbrow bits involving scatological humor and excessive gore . Gilliam actually takes the storytelling seriously , intending to go for the narrative approach without falling back too much on silliness . For me , this resulted in a movie where some of the jokes just felt forced and half-hearted , while the plot itself was actually fairly interesting . The look - costumes , sets , and the like - were well done , and I actually found the murky photography gave it a very grim and grimy feel . The movie does depict squalor very well . The creature itself is quite striking and interesting and formidable , with a great and clever reveal for the climax . A solid line-up of actors fill out the supporting roles : Harry H . Corbett , John Le Mesurier , Warren Mitchell , Bernard Bresslaw , Kenneth Colley , Brian Glover , Derrick O'Connor , and David Prowse . Wall and Le Mesurier are particularly funny as The King and Passelewe . Palin is quite appealing as the simple-minded " hero " . Gilliam and Palins ' fellow Monty Python colleague Terry Jones has a fun cameo at the outset as the creatures ' first on-screen victim . I wouldn't have known this was low budget stuff watching it - the production values are good indeed . It's not altogether satisfactory , but it's an amiable mix of irreverence and a genuinely engaging fantasy / adventure just the same .
A stirring and enjoyable " don't mess with mother nature " sci-fi thriller .	It took 44 years after the initial 1933 adaptation of the H . G . Wells novel before this second official screen version hit the screen . The story is that Dr . Moreau ( an excellent Burt Lancaster ) is living in seclusion with the stunning Maria ( ever gorgeous Barbara Carrera ) and assistant Montgomery ( a solid Nigel Davenport ) , with a bevy of servants . It seems that the mad doctor is turning animals into humans , but is not having the grandest time of it . Into this predicament steps Andrew Braddock ( likable Michael York ) , survivor of a shipwreck . Capably directed by former actor Don Taylor ( whose other genre credits from the period include " Escape from the Planet of the Apes " and " Damien : Omen II " ) , the film is also magnificently photographed by Gerry Fisher , who did the standout cinematography for the 1981 horror film " Wolfen " . The lush island scenery simply looks superb , and the sets are quite sufficient . The picture maintains a feeling of steadily mounting tension . The makeup on the man-beasts , done by the people behind the " Planet of the Apes " series , is very good for the time . Best of all is the graphic , intense , and rousing conclusion , although it seems as if the film-makers wanted to pad the running time just a bit by adding one more unnecessary confrontation right at the end . In addition to the stars , Richard Basehart , in heavy makeup as one of the creatures , does exceptional work as the " Sayer of the Law " , who looks to be the most civilized and intelligent of the creatures . Lancasters ' long-time co-star and former acrobatic partner Nick Cravat makes an appearance as M'ling . Mad scientist films may not exactly be uncommon , but this is a decent film of its type . It may not be as well paced as it ought to be , but it's still decent entertainment , intriguing and well-crafted . Highlight : York struggling to maintain his humanity even after falling victim to Lancasters ' machinations .
Entertaining horror flick .	Fairly stylish and intense horror movie with heavy erotic overtones , a fair bit of gore , an appealing teenager-in-distress nicely played by Meredith Salenger , and a part for top-billed Joanna Pacula that really plays up her exotic beauty . The story has to deal with a curse of sorts passed down to each new generation by a woman-to-woman smooch . It starts in the Belgian Congo in the early 60's when a young girl receives this all-important kiss and grows up to become the enticing Pacula . She insinuates herself into the lives of her brother-in-law and his daughter ( Salenger ) after their wife / mom perishes in an effectively brutal accident . The daughter senses something is wrong with this relative stranger but dear old dad is slow to realize it . Meanwhile , anyone who impedes Paculas ' progress meets with a graphic punishment , if not outright demise . Not a bad horror film at all , with good makeup effects and a gnarly little creature supplied by Chris Walas . It has some good moments leading up to an entertaining climax . Pacula is well cast and easy to watch , while other roles are played by Mimi Kuzyk , Nicholas Kilbertus , Jan Rubes , and Shawn Levy ( who went on to become a director of mainstream comedies like the " Cheaper by the Dozen " remake ) .
" N'y sont pas . . . sont des Inuat . "	Before he became an action and thriller expert starting with " Predator " , director John McTiernan started out in film by giving us this intriguing , small-scale psychological thriller . After attaining stardom on TV thanks to ' Remington Steele ' , Pierce Brosnan here makes his starring film debut as Jean-Charles Pommier , a French anthropologist newly arrived in L . A . As the film opens , we see him crazed and bloody , attacking doctor Eileen Flax ( Lesley-Anne Down ) and somehow transferring to her his memories of the past week , as he was becoming obsessed with figuring out a strange group of drifters . As the film progresses , we see one offbeat , surreal encounter after another , and it is never made crystal clear ( although , in retrospect , I now think that this works in the films ' favor ) just how much in the film is " real " . How much of it is hallucination ? McTiernan is clever in the way that he's set all of this up . Brosnan immerses himself deeply in his role ; I can actually see the panic and frustration that the character feels . Down is also good in her role , succeeding in conveying her characters ' confusion and anguish . Supporting them are folks like film legend Nina Foch , Frances Bay , Alan Autry , the appealing Jeannie Elias ( 1981's " The Pit " ) , the gorgeous and luminous Anna-Maria Monticelli , pop star Adam Ant , and such cult actors as Mary Woronov ( who looks great and performs a sexy dance routine on top of a car ) and Frank Doubleday ( " Assault on Precinct 13 " , " Escape from New York " ) . The music by Bill Conti is one of his least typical . A pounding rock score with guitar performances by Ted Nugent , it's enjoyable , but doesn't really work all that well for this kind of film . I think that ultimately I would have preferred a more traditional , orchestral score , which tends to work better for scary and suspenseful stories . McTiernan maintains an appropriately sinister mood throughout , and delivers a fairly good thriller in the end result , not exactly like the majority of scary movies released in the 1980's . Recommended for those looking for something a little different .
Pretty good 50's horror .	Two seemingly unrelated murders have taken place ; police doctor Chet Walker ( Richard Denning ) discovers that the killers are themselves in fact dead , and are being manipulated , using radioactivity , to commit various nefarious deeds . An early variation on zombie movies , this is fun , likable stuff from the mind of Curt Siodmak , the legendary , prolific writer behind such memorable fright fare as " The Wolf Man " . The script is intriguing , albeit full of the technically loaded exposition common to films of the era . You've certainly got to give the villain of this story credit for coming up with such an ingenious idea , and it provides for some nice touches ( the villain uses a TV to see what his unwitting killers are seeing ) . Director Edward L . Cahn moves it at a steady pace ( one thing I love about many of these old movies is that they were often over in record time , with a refreshing lack of filler ) ; it's breezy , humorous genre fare that benefits from its stolid cast ; handsome Denning is an engaging lead , with nice supporting turns by S . John Launer as his good friend ( Captain and " Uncle " Dave Harris ) , Michael Granger as the cold-eyed , vengeance-crazed gangster Frank Buchanan , and Gregory Gay as the brilliant scientist in Buchanans ' employ . This all leads to a fairly memorable climax where the impossible-to-kill assassins are battling the cops . It's the perfect capper on 70 minutes of straightforward B-movie entertainment .
I liked it .	Based on fact account of " Junior " Jackson ( Jeff Bridges ) , the son of a moonshiner , who in order to raise the money necessary to release his father from prison , turns to demolition derbies and ultimately to stock car racing , becoming a champion on the track . I thought that this was reasonably entertaining . All race scenes are well done , but the best component of the film is its excellent and amiable cast . Bridges is supported by such familiar faces as Valerie Perrine , Geraldine Fitzgerald , Ned Beatty , Gary Busey , Ed Lauter , William Smith , and the late Lane Smith , in a small but noticeable role . In sharp contrast to the crooked , racist-pig cop he played in the same year's " Black Caesar " , Art Lund is a standout as Junior's proud father . It's a likable little film and it combines elements of drama , comedy , and race track action in an effective way . It all comes together very well .
It's a game that can't be won , only played .	Modest but effective little drama about war veteran Rannulph Junuh ( Matt Damon ) , once an excellent golfer , who has " lost his swing " and feeling for the game after his horrific experiences in combat . Mysterious caddie Bagger Vance ( Will Smith ) gently guides him along , offering many little pearls of wisdom , as Junuh participates in an exhibition match with golf greats Walter Hagen ( Bruce McGill ) and Bobby Jones ( Joel Gretsch ) . I'll just say some things to get them out of the way : my first criticisms would be that it's rather corny at times and I didn't care too much for the attempts to be all mystical about the game of golf . Director Robert Redford handles it in typically meticulous fashion , but also makes his usual move of taking his sweet time to tell the story . Having said that , I thought it was well-intentioned and pretty well-crafted . Smith , Damon , and Charlize Theron all do a good job , and newcomer J . Michael Moncrief is a pretty good child actor as the kid who idolizes Junuh . The aged version of Moncrief's character is played by Jack Lemmon , in his final feature film appearance ; it is Lemmon who narrates the movie and he does a poignant job - a good piece of work to serve as the swan song in a distinguished career .
Silly , to be sure , but endearingly so .	Oddball fantasy-adventure from Hammer Studios begins as a sea voyage , as a Captain Lansen ( Eric Porter ) is transporting , along with assorted passengers , illegal explosives that he intends to sell to make enough money to retire on . They travel into dangerous weather and are eventually forced to abandon ship . Then the movie really gets crazy . They sail into waters containing living seaweed capable of devouring a man . Then they come across an island ruled by a strange tribe of people ruled by a child king . The fact that this movie is so unabashedly cheesy is part of the charm . The variety of gnarly yet quite goofy sea monsters is unconvincing enough to provide good laughs . Yet , as directed by Hammer executive producer Michael Carreras , it's not lacking in style . It's a good looking movie with some fine visuals . Moody photography and decent pacing also work in its favor . A professional cast makes the most out of their silly material . Porter is an efficient presence , while Hildegard Knef has some good scenes as her character relates her back story . Sexy Suzanna Leigh and well-endowed Dana Gillespie provide fine eye candy , and Tony Beckley , Nigel Stock , Neil McCallum , and James Cossins provide fine support . Overall , I thought it was agreeable schlock that would make for amusing rainy afternoon viewing .
Back to Haddonfield . . .	After the failure of " Halloween III " , the series producers brought back unkillable monster Michael Audrey Myers in this sequel set ten years after the events of the first two movies . Laurie Strode , apparently deceased now , had a daughter three years after her run-in with her brother , and now the seven-year-old girl ( newcomer Danielle Harris ) is living with a foster family in Haddonfield . Her psycho uncle revives during an ambulance ride and returns to this small town to stalk her . He is pursued once again by Dr . Sam Loomis ( Donald Pleasence ) who seems to be going mad in his attempt to find and stop the fiend . Not an excellent horror movie , but the attempt to make this a quality horror movie does not exactly fail . It does come close to being actually scary . The film-makers made it suspenseful and creepy and also made it gory without throwing buckets and buckets of blood at the camera . Jamie ( Harris ) and Rachel ( Ellie Cornell ) are actually likable and for once there is a lawman character ( Beau Starr ) who actually takes the advice of the good doctor . It may get a little tiresome seeing how the inhuman Myers can constantly slaughter victim after victim with a minimum of effort on his ( or should I say its ) part , but that's also what makes him ( it ) an intimidating character . Donald Pleasence , once again playing his signature role , is compelling and believable and I've got to feel for the guy . How would YOU feel if you kept trying to contain some madman who kept returning from the dead ? The only thing that I can't buy is that Loomis would emerge from the fiery explosion at the end of Part Two looking basically all right . Sure , Loomis has scars and a limp , but that's it . Decent horror sequel .
Good of its type .	Bruce Lee's son Brandon got his first starring vehicle with this routinely written but competently done martial arts / cop flick . Brandon clearly had the looks , physicality , and presence to have had an impressive acting career had it not been cut tragically short on the set of " The Crow " . Brandon is Jake Lo , college student who accidentally witnesses mafioso Antonio Serrano ( a very amusing Nick Mancuso ) blowing away one of his associates . Jake finds out that he can't trust the Feds assigned to the case , so ends up working alongside tough , maverick cop Mace Ryan ( Powers Boothe ) , a man with unrelenting stubborn tenacity . Director Dwight H . Little makes sure this slick action picture never stops moving . It's got all of the gunfire and martial arts choreography ( Brandon was also a fight choreographer on the show ) that a fan could want . It's exciting at times , very straightforward , and even works in a not so subtle message about people needing to live for something and that dying for what one believes in is an honorable thing . The supporting cast is equally fun to watch . Mancuso and Boothe are the real standouts , but also performing their roles well are Kate Hodge as Boothe's sexy female partner , Raymond J . Barry as crooked Fed Frank Stuart , Tzi Ma as nasty , ruthless villain Kinman Tau , Tony Longo as Serrano's imposing henchman , Basil Wallace ( the bad guy in director Little's previous martial arts picture " Marked for Death " with Steven Seagal ) as the hostile Agent Wesley , and ubiquitous action veteran Al Leong as a henchman . Richard Schiff of future ' West Wing ' fame can be seen as an art teacher . " Rapid Fire " is enjoyable action fare and worth watching for any fan of the genre .
An endearing biopic anchored by Pryors ' fine performance .	Richard Pryor plays Wendell Scott , a war vet with a love and talent for driving . After initially putting this to good use as a moonshine runner , he ends up in the world of stock car racing , facing an overwhelming amount of racism as he struggled to be taken seriously and , ultimately , become a champion on the track . If , for me , there was anything less than completely satisfactory about this picture , it would be that it seems that more could have been told about Scotts ' life story . The picture moves along incredibly well ( this 97 minute picture really flies by ) , which proves to be both good and bad . It just felt that the film-makers were only giving us brief glimpses from certain points in this life . But the story is still an important one , and it's worth sticking with , concluding on an upbeat , uplifting , and inspiring note . It gets lots of points for its sincerity and high likability factor , with Pryor turning in one of the finest performances that I've seen from him . It's a true revelation in showing how good he could be dramatically . Supporting him extremely well are Beau Bridges , as a former competitor turned ally , Pam Grier , as his loving and supportive wife , Cleavon Little as lifelong crony Peewee , Vincent Gardenia as blustery redneck sheriff Cotton , Richie Havens as mechanic Woodrow ( Mr . Havens also sings the catchy songs very well ) , Earl Hindman as arrogant star racer Beau Welles , and Noble Willingham as slick Billy Joe Byrnes , the man who gets Wendell into racing in the first place . It's an enjoyable little film and hopefully I and others here can help to get it some more attention .
Impossible to just dismiss once you've seen it .	A very subtle , character-driven drama / thriller / murder mystery about disturbed young Alice ( Paula Sheppard ) , who comes under suspicion for the grisly murder of her doted-on sister Karen ( Brooke Shields , in her first film role ) , strangled and set afire - inside a church , no less . Noteworthy for the heavy Catholic imagery throughout , as well as a quietly sinister mood and feel , this film's brief bursts of graphic violence are definitely jarring . The acting is better than one might expect for an independent genre picture , with Sheppard genuinely believable in her role , and Jane Lowry stomping on the scenery quite effectively as her nasty Aunt Annie . A prominent supporting character is that of an obese , cat loving pervert , Mr . Alphonse , and this has to rank as one of the more memorable creeps I've seen portrayed in film . While I found it a little slow moving for my liking , it's still worth sticking with . It's an intriguing little picture , refreshingly unpredictable . I dare say , even the revelation of the killers ' identity might take some viewers by surprise . It leads to an undeniably powerful final freeze frame . The director , Alfred Sole , ultimately went into production design instead of sticking with directing , which is a little too bad , given that he only directed a few other films , one of them being the star-studded slasher spoof " Pandemonium " . One thing I definitely enjoyed was the low-key , melodic music score by Stephen Lawrence , also helping it to stick in the memory . Overall , it should be noted for more than the trivia value ( i . e . Shields's debut ) ; it's worth looking into for those who have yet to see it . Recommended viewing .
How Many Times Does That Snake Get Loose ?	Sam Simms ( Sinbad ) is a laid-back , easygoing Secret Service agent who would like to be protecting the President himself ( James Naughton ) but ends up being obliged to protect the President's bratty son ( Brock Pierce ) instead . The good thing is , Simms and Luke ( the kid ) do end up bonding , and Simms helps him talk to a girl he's interested in , teaches him how to dance , etc . Decent Disney production which is put over , I think , by simple likeability . Reasonably funny , with a good cast . The major drawback is the seriousness of a story thread about a humiliated former agent ( Timothy Busfield ) . Otherwise , it's good stuff , and Sinbad is an engaging lead . On a small note : of all the times I've seen canine companions in movies ( family movies and otherwise ) , I was pleased to note the presence of a bearded collie , a breed I don't often see on screen . ( Although the dog doesn't really have much of a role . ) I give it .
A most amusing zombie romp .	Bossy theater group leader Alan ( Alan Ormsby , in a memorably and deliciously smarmy performance ) brings his hapless troupe to an island cemetery . Here he involves them in rites intended to raise the dead . Little does he know how well this will pay off . While the accent on the ( admittedly very funny at times ) dialog gives me an indication of how low the budget must have been on this one , the rawness of the whole thing actually adds to the appeal for me . Assisted by Carl Zittrers ' appropriately weird ( and I do mean weird ) music score , writer / director Bob Clark ( billed here as Benjamin Clark ) establishes reasonably good atmosphere as well as a sense of claustrophobia later on , as the zombies lay siege to the actors as they cower inside an empty building . The zombies themselves are mighty impressive ; Ormsby , who also gets a screenplay collaboration credit , even did the makeup himself , and for low budget stuff , it's really very well done . The picture is rather slow for the most part , focusing more on interaction with the characters . Then , about 20 minutes from the end , it finally kicks into gear in a well-executed post - " Night of the Living Dead " onslaught of the living dead . However flawed , I can't deny that " Children Shouldn't Play with Dead Things " ( a great title , indeed ) does have its charms . Fans of living dead films should get a bit of a kick out of it . Ormsby and Clark would go on to collaborate on " Deathdream " ( a . k . a . " Dead of Night " ) ; co-star Anya Ormsby ( as the delightfully spacey Anya ) was Alans ' then-wife .
Doesn't live up to the hype , but it will undeniably please some hardcore horror fans .	A deformed , monstrous , bayou-dwelling psychopath who survived a hatchet to the face as a child lives on to terrorize the really stupid chump victims taking a tour of his domain in the present day . While I wouldn't consider this the second coming of the genre , director Adam Green does show a bit of flair . Made as an obvious homage to the splatter flicks that him and many of us grew up watching , he does stage the various bloody attacks with considerable panache . Any gore hound watching is bound to be pleased to some degree . The picture also has a respectable amount of backwoods atmosphere . Taking place mostly at night , it settles into a pretty consistent groove once it kicks into gear . The characters are so moronic , standard-issue , and pathetic that the killer is the one most people will be likely to be rooting for - but that doesn't make this any different from many of the slasher films of yore . Green was able to get some genuine horror icons to participate in this ; fans will love seeing Robert Englund , Tony Todd ( although these two are relegated to brief , disappointing cameo roles ) and particularly Kane Hodder , portraying the horrific monster as well as its father in flashback scenes . The assorted , expendable victims are played by folks like Joel David Moore , Deon Richmond ( who has some good , funny moments ) , Joel Murray ( brother of Bill M . ) , Tamara Feldman ( she's the one required to give us much of the exposition ) , Mercedes McNab , Parry Shen , and others . Other than the various gruesome dispatches , what I did appreciate about it was its full-steam-ahead approach . It had an energy to it that was enjoyable . The incredibly predictable ending was an unsatisfying letdown , but overall it's an appropriate enough valentine to vintage slasher fare and I had a fairly good time watching it .
Amiable zombie hijinks from the Sci-Fi Channel .	Dean Cain portrays Bobby Quinn , a lieutenant with the Special Forces whose platoon is sent on a recon mission in Cambodia to investigate the fate of a covert scientific outpost . They get caught off guard when what they encounter turns out to be a bunch of ravenous zombies . Back Stateside , Bobby wakes up in time to prevent an autopsy from being performed on him ( he'd been officially pronounced dead ) . He now also has enhanced senses that help him to realize that one of his comrades is close by , much worse off than he is , and on the loose . When he's forced to kill him , the higher ups of course refuse to believe his outrageous story and try to lock him up , but he escapes with a newfound sidekick in the form of chef Judson ( Guy Torry , supplying the majority of the comedy relief ) and soon hooks up with another ally : sexy-as-all-get-out film student and geek Holly ( Susan Ward ) . It's up to these three to eliminate the rest of the platoon , stop an infestation from spreading , and punish those responsible for the whole mess . No lofty ambitions here ; this is no more and no less than reasonably likable no-brainer genre entertainment . It's pretty much full steam ahead , with a strong accent on the comedic content . There's several self-referential jokes and pop culture comments ( such as a comparison of the two " Dawn of the Dead " films ) that some viewers may very much appreciate . Granted , I thought there were a number of lines and situations that had me rolling my eyes , so much so that I wondered if they'd stick that way , but in the end it's hard to knock a movie that the film-makers themselves are clearly not taking all that seriously . It's still a lively and irreverent bit of fun . Injecting comedy into the zombie genre may not exactly be an original concept , but " Dead & Deader " does generate some real laughs . It's got plenty of gore , with as much green gunk on screen as the red stuff . There's also scorpions coming out of bodies as well ; the little buggers turn out to play an important role in this movie's approach to the rejuvenation of the dead . Some set pieces are reasonably rousing , like the massacre in the diner and the final onslaught of the living dead . Cain , Torry , and Ward are pretty engaging in the leads . The supporting cast , stocked with some familiar faces , has its moments . John Billingsley and Dean Haglund are particularly funny ( Haglund plays a funeral home director who listens to Black Sabbath while he works ) . There's also the ever intense Peter Greene and the cute Ellie Cornell as doctors , a strident Colleen Camp as a frumpy housewife , Natassia Malthe as an officious military doctor , and Armin Shimerman as a perplexed coroner . Overall , " Dead & Deader " proves to be routine , forgettable stuff , but it's a fairly enjoyable time killer just the same .
It was better than expected , but still fell a little short .	Sixth sequel to the money-making " Halloween " franchise is actually better than the past two entries . Basically , it ignores everything that happened in parts four to six and takes place twenty years after the events of " Halloween " one and two . Laurie Strode ( Jamie Lee Curtis ) has faked her death and is now the headmistress at a rural private school in California . She's also a functioning alcoholic who just can't get rid of her Halloween 1978 memories - she's still scared that after all this time her brother Michael will still be out to get her . Well , guess what happens ? . . . With a veteran director ( Steve Miner , who directed the second and third " Friday the 13th " movies as well as mainstream movies like " Soul Man " , " Forever Young " and " Big Bully " ) on board , the film-makers were obviously working hard to make this genuinely scary . They do succeed at creating some suspense and atmosphere , but mostly all I get from watching the series by this point is a sense of deja vu . It's still a respectable sequel ( hey , at least they tried ) , and Jamie Lee Curtis is wonderful at reprising her infamous role . And what do you know , Jamie Lee's legendary mother Janet Leigh is on hand to play the school secretary , and she and her daughter share a few scenes . Some people will enjoy the little in-joke when Norma ( Leigh ) gets in her car to go home . Also uplifted by some better-than-usual supporting players , including Adam Arkin , LL Cool J , and Joseph Gordon-Levitt . One wonderful touch was seeing Nancy Stephens reprise the role of nurse Marion Chambers after a long absence from the series . Nice to see her again ! However , I don't like how Michael Myers ' appearance keeps changing from film to film . In this film , he looks about as scary as Ronald McDonald . The shortest " Halloween " film to date .
Good for fans of the giant monster movies of the 50's .	An enormous prehistoric preying mantis is unearthed in the Arctic and proceeds to go on the expected rampage until our heroes find out what they're up against and try to stop it . Said heroes include a paleontologist , Dr . Jackson ( William Hopper ) , his associate , Marge Blaine ( Alix Talton ) , and stoic Col . Parkman ( Craig Stevens ) . It might not rank right up there with two of my favorite classics from the period - " Them ! " and " Tarantula " - but " The Deadly Mantis " is really not a bad movie at all . It has the same reliance on dialog ( full of exposition ) as many of the other movies from the period , and isn't as interesting when the monster isn't doing its thing , but it holds up fairly well . The special effects are rather decent ( this monster is at the least more convincing than that Muppet-like alien buzzard in " The Giant Claw " ) , maybe not so much when the monster is seen in long shot , but they're good enough , and the movie is well done and , for me , anyway , not in the least laughable . Some sequences late in the movie work particularly well , when the monster is on the loose in the fog , and the climax in the Manhattan Tunnel , when it's easy to start feeling some pity for the monster . Director Nathan Juran , one of the prolific genre directors of the period , does a good job , especially when it comes to the action sequences . The little bit of humor there is - particularly , military men acting like little boys when meeting Marge because they so rarely see women - definitely gave me some chuckles . The acting is perfectly acceptable , as well . If you're like me and are partial to these movies to begin with , " The Deadly Mantis " may do just fine for a dose of giant killer insect mayhem .
" I got it . . . I got it . . . I got it . . . I ain't got it . "	Pretty funny Mel Brooks tribute to and spoof of many of Alfred Hitchcock's classics . Brooks himself plays Dr . Richard Harpo Thorndyke , the new head of an insane asylum , who realizes that he is caught in a conspiracy engineered by the staff . Unfortunately , I haven't seen enough of The Master's classic works to identify all the jokes , although I recognized the " Vertigo " and " The Birds " parodies , and , of course , the " Psycho " one . The irrepressible cast of Brooks company regulars is great fun to watch , especially Cloris Leachman as the hideous , lisping Nurse Diesel . It is not always terribly funny , but there certainly are good moments . In one highlight , Brooks himself sings the title song , which he composed himself ; in the " Psycho " send-up , future filmmaker Barry Levinson ( who was one of the writers here ) plays the lazy , insolent hotel bellboy . Veteran Hitchcock collaborator Albert J . Whitlock ( who also did the matte shots for this picture ) has a cameo towards the end . It's likable and fun and definitely good for a number of laughs .
Decent drive-in fare .	The ever-ravishing Lynda Carter of ' Wonder Woman ' fame stars with Marjoe Gortner in this bouncy exploitation flick . She plays Bobbie Jo , a carhop with fantasies of being a country-western star . She hooks up with Lyle Wheeler ( a very likable and charismatic Gortner ) , a footloose quick-draw expert who uses Billy the Kid as a role model . In no time , they're joined by Bobbie Jo's sweet friend Essie ( Belinda Balaski , lovely and appealing as always ) and sister Pearl ( Merrie Lynn Ross ) & Pearl's boyfriend Slick ( Jesse Vint ) , and embark on a crime spree throughout New Mexico . " Bobbie Jo and the Outlaw " is an engaging movie of its type . It's spirited , breezy and sleazy stuff . Director Mark L . Lester knows his audience , and delivers the enjoyable staples of the genre . The bountiful T & A is a prime visual asset , the action scenes are swift , the pace never lets up much , and the flavorful score by Barry DeVorzon really hits the spot . The cast is quite entertaining right down the line . It also includes appearances by John Durren as Deputy Abel Gance , Peggy Stewart as Bobbie Jo and Pearl's alcoholic mother Hattie , Gerrit Graham as commune leader Magic Ray , James Gammon as a leather salesman , Gene Drew as redneck Sheriff Hicks , Virgil Frye as Joe Grant , who makes the mistake of challenging Lyle on his quick-draw abilities , and future director Chuck Russell ( also second assistant director here ) as an unnamed deputy . Co-star Ross would work again with director Lester on " Class of 1984 " . This little picture is a very pleasant diversion .
A commendably straight-faced and eerie picture .	" Malevolence " is a nasty , bleak picture every step of the way . With very few characters that could legitimately be considered " innocent " , it sets up a disturbing back story involving a child's abduction and what that child is forced to witness . Several years later , a no-count quartet of criminals ( including a husband and wife who unfortunately owe a lot of money to the kind of people to whom one shouldn't owe money ) stage a bank robbery . A series of incidents lead to a scenario wherein most of the main characters end up in a back-of-the-beyond residence . And this area has a deadly , deadly secret in the form of a truly frightening maniac who makes this place his home . Writer / producer / director Stevan Mena ( who also composed the effectively scary music ) does definitely wear his influences on his sleeve , such as " The Town That Dreaded Sundown " , " Psycho " , " The Texas Chain Saw Massacre " , and as the film goes on , it's clear that he's acquainted himself well with the " Friday the 13th " series . His concept of a " heist gone awry " plot eventually segueing into a out-and-out horror movie is a pretty good one , and he gives this movie the kind of atmosphere that some horror movies definitely lack . Right from the start , it's clear that his film will be played straight , with no irony or self-referential dialog ; I don't believe he's really acting as if his film sparkles with originality but it's what he does with the material that matters . There's an excellent sense of melancholy established immediately , and a fair number of the scares are genuine . Granted , some of Mena's " jump " movie cues are highly reminiscent of what John Carpenter did for " Halloween " , and he trots out the clichés a little too often ( especially in the final scenes ) , but his movie is definitely worthy of some respect . While it may leave gore lovers less than satisfied , it's an interesting change of pace that he never really throws that much blood in the viewer's face . The characters often behave in a typically stupid fashion ( leading us to quite enjoy their inevitable demise ) , but it is refreshing that a majority of them are indeed far from being squeaky clean . And I'm of the mind that the performances are better than what some people might expect . Brandon Johnson and Heather Magee conflict well as the husband and wife ; she's made up her mind to commit to being ruthless , while his conscience continues to nag at him . Richard Glover as Kurt and Keith Chambers as Max are quite convincing as lowlife scum in their time on screen , and Samantha Dark and Courtney Bertolone elicit enough sympathy as the imperiled mother and daughter who get drawn into the nightmare ( although Dark's incessant screaming is bound to annoy some viewers ) . It fades a little in the stretch ( it's actually at this point where we get fed some exposition ) but in general I believe it's a very solid effort and that Mena and company deserve credit for their efforts .
Candy Cane ? Are You There ?	Nice-guy college student Lewis ( Paul Walker ) is going to his would-be girlfriend Venna's ( Leelee Sobieski ) college to drive her home and stops to bail his slacker brother Fuller ( Steve Zahn ) out of jail . Fuller soon coerces Lewis into playing a prank on a deep-voiced trucker using Lewis's CB radio . ( I didn't know they still made those things ! ) Since this is a chase thriller , it goes without saying that the prank produces horrifying results , and the trucker ends up pursuing Lewis and Fuller and Venna across the Southwest . Joy Ride's script does pose some questions ( How is it that Rusty Nail ( the trucker's CB handle ) is always able to know details about Lewis and Fuller , and where they are and what they are up to ? ) , but it's so well-made technically , exciting , and well-acted , that the script kind of takes a backseat to the film-makers's skills . ( That sequence in the hotel room IS kind of scary . ) You may be riveted in spite of yourself . One thing to comment on : both the video and DVD feature a 29-minute alternate ending that is worth checking out . Maybe some of you will actually prefer this ending , who knows ? I would give it .
Flawed but entertaining .	Karen McCann ( Sally Field ) , a working mom , has her world utterly shattered when Robert Doob ( Kiefer Sutherland ) , a delivery man , savagely rapes and murders her teenage daughter and then manages to avoid justice . Karen becomes obsessed with making him pay for what he did . Enjoyable but relentlessly manipulative thriller , based on a novel by Erika Holzer , did not just push my buttons but hammer away at them with a passion . Doob is such an evil , remorseless , conniving monster it is IMPOSSIBLE to watch the movie and not utterly despise him . Basically , it's another urban vigilante epic made in the tradition of films like " Death Wish " , except with a female lead . It exploits the frustration that all of us decent folk have with our often worthless justice systems , which often protect the criminals far more than the victims . There are few things more enraging than " legal technicalities " . Well cast right down the line , with good work by Field , Ed Harris ( as the husband whom Karen alienates with her single-minded mission ) , Joe Mantegna , Philip Baker Hall , Keith David , and Charlayne Woodard . Sutherland is fine even if there's only one way for him to play his character . No matter what , the film certainly moves well . These 102 minutes almost fly by .
Everybody , say it with me . . . " Mind the doors ! "	In 19th century London , tunnel workers were buried in a cave in , but managed to survive for many years , and in 1970's era London , the last living descendant of these underground dwellers is about to make his presence known to the outside world . This isn't really your standard issue horror movie . It's quiet , slowly paced ( VERY slowly paced at times ) , and never builds to a frenetic pace or melodramatic finish . It's a moody , interesting , offbeat thriller ( with touches of graphic horror here and there ) with a highly amusing Donald Pleasence as the surly Inspector Calhoun - he's not really in Dr . Loomis territory here , but the character is kind of a hoot in his attitude . This little film is actually most effective when going for pathos : the cave-dwelling " Man " ( Hugh Armstrong ) is a tragic figure who is clearly not doing anything out of genuine malice . His grief and loneliness play out very well ; he's the kind of antagonist that can arouse genuine pity from a viewer , giving the movie additional resonance . The cast does good work , particularly Pleasence , Armstrong , Norman Rossington , and an all-too-briefly seen Christopher Lee ( who has only one scene , but makes it count ) . David Ladd , as the young American student in a relationship with a local girl , plays a seemingly heartless individual , and he doesn't really make this character likable or interesting in any way . Sharon Gurney , as the girl , is more appealing , although it's unfortunate that she's pretty much destined to be the film's damsel-in-distress . The film has a good look to it , at least in the underground locations , which look quite impressively disgusting . The music is somewhat offbeat , again , this is a touch that seems to be going more for mood than generating fear or tension . On the whole , this is an intriguing picture worthy of some respect . Also known as " Raw Meat " , this marked the directing debut of Gary Sherman , who , after a long absence from film-making , returned to the States to make movies like " Dead and Buried " , " Vice Squad " , " Wanted : Dead or Alive " and " Poltergeist III " .
" Just tell it to call you Billie ! "	Horror anthology collaboration between horror genre experts Stephen King and George A . Romero , in which they pay tribute to the E . C . horror comic books of the 1950's . Five King-scripted stories are told . 1 . " Father's Day " - - A murdered man ( who was apparently a real monster in life as well ) returns from the grave to strike back at his greedy , conniving relatives . " It's Father's Day , and I want my cake " . This is okay but nothing special . It's really not scary at all . Worth a look for a young Ed Harris ( although he barely gets to do anything ) . 2 . " The Lonesome Death of Jordy Verrill " - - King himself hams it up as the title redneck , a self-described ' lunkhead ' who seals his doom by making physical contact with a small meteor . Jordy is turned into walking vegetation . Set design and makeup effects are good in this one , but it's really more goofy than anything else . 3 . " Something to Tide You Over " - - scheming , cuckolded husband Richard Vickers ( Leslie Nielsen ) plants his wife ( Gaylen Ross of " Dawn of the Dead " ) and her lover ( Ted Danson ) up to their necks in the beach and lets the tide drown them . Gee , I wonder if Richard is going to regret doing this ? . . . . Not bad , entertaining enough , but not particularly distinguished . Nielsen is the best thing about this segment . 4 . " The Crate " - - not surprisingly , the best segment in this movie is also the longest . A crate is discovered under some stairs in the basement of a university , and it contains a monster that snacks on a few people . Professor Henry Northrup ( Hal Holbrook ) finally sees a way to get rid of his shrewish , obnoxious wife Wilma ( Adrienne Barbeau ) by feeding her to the thing . This segment kicks some major a , I don't mind telling you . It is genuinely creepy and features some good kills and great performances . 5 . " They're Creeping Up On You " - - heartless , Scrooge-like businessman Upson Pratt ( E . G . Marshall ) lives in a highly sanitized apartment , but he is unable to keep it free of cockroaches , and they go after him in a major way . So-so , but just wait for the finale , when we get to see what ultimately becomes of Pratt . A good merging of talents , " Creepshow " is overall a decent horror film with a number of fine actors who you normally wouldn't expect to find in a horror film . It has its good moments and not-so-good moments , but it ultimately works out . King's son Joe plays the kid in the wrap-around story , which also features actor Tom Atkins ( uncredited ) as the kid's grouchy father . Look for makeup effects guy Tom Savini as one of the garbage men near the end of the film .
" NO ! YOU MUST NOT READ FROM THE BOOK ! "	Brendan Fraser plays Rick O'Connell , a legionnaire-turned-adventurer who leads librarian Evie Carnahan ( the beautiful Rachel Weisz ) and her moron brother Jonathan ( John Hannah ) to the supposedly " lost " city of Hamunaptra , where Imhotep ( Arnold Vosloo ) , a priest who was condemned to a torturous death thousands of years earlier , is resurrected . These heroes , of course , are then obligated to save the planet ( or at least 1930's Egypt ) from the plagues that Imhotep will bring . Personally , I don't care if every critic out there thought this was stupid and overblown . I liked it . I thought it provided me with a reasonable amount of fun . I don't think the scenes of the resurrected Imhotep walking around are as scary as the film-makers would have hoped , but that's not a major quibble . MY major problem is Kevin J . O'Connor's incredibly annoying role ( and performance ) as the weasely character Beni . The film could have done without this character . I give it seven ( I would give it seven and a half if that were possible ) out of ten .
Entertaining , family-friendly sci-fi .	Teenager Alex Rogan ( Lance Guest ) is despondent over the fact that he can't seem to escape from his mundane trailer park existence . Little does he know that the arcade game that he has mastered is actually a recruiting tool to find individuals who can help an alien civilization defend themselves from interstellar villains . " Cute " probably would be the most apt description of this 1980's product , a harmless , effects and design driven " Star Wars " variation with a most likable cast . Guest and his love interest Catherine Mary Stewart have a real earnestness and down-to-earth quality ( Guest also has an amusing scene where's he's acting opposite himself ) . Veteran actors Robert Preston , as " Centauri " , and Daniel O'Herlihy , as ' gung-ho iguana ' Grig , are a pleasure to watch , with O'Herlihy stealing all of his scenes . There's no real objectionable content , and not much in it that might prove to be too scary for the younger viewer . Overall , it is kind of lightweight and not terribly memorable , but it does have its charms .
Good fun .	Paul Marsh ( Ezra Godden ) is thrust into a nightmare in a coastal Spanish village named Imboca , when a horrible storm does severe damage to a friends ' boat , anchored offshore . When he makes it to the village , he finds that the locals are a very off-putting sort , and of no help whatsoever . As the rain continues to fall , he gets the history of the place from " crazy drunk " , and seemingly the only normal person in the village , Ezequiel ( Francisco Rabal , who is great ) and discovers not only the incredible secrets of the locals , but the truth about himself . Stuart Gordon once again delivers decent B level horror taking its title from a very brief H . P . Lovecraft short story , but being based more closely on another tale titled " The Shadow Over Innsmouth " . The result is a nicely done tale with heavy atmosphere . Production design / art direction and cinematography are excellent ; this is definitely a film with good visuals . The music is quite suitably ominous and the film just builds in intensity as it goes along . It has quite a good feeling of mystery and a heavy accent on mythology and the ultimate revelations are interesting , to say the least . I haven't seen anything quite like " Dagon " , which is definitely a good thing . Godden makes for an enjoyable lead in the sense that he's not quite a conventional variety of hero . He's nerdy , jittery , and not really all that likable , but it's easy to share his befuddlement at his situation . Rabal is quite delightful as provider of some of the exposition ( this was one of his final roles , and the film is dedicated to him ) , and Macarena Gomez is lovely and bewitching as the character of Uxia . The effects are a decent combination of traditional makeup and CGI , and the film has a solidly grim and nasty tone that gives it an extra bit of kick . It's good and engaging outrageousness ; with the help of his old cohorts , producer Brian Yuzna and screenwriter Dennis Paoli , Gordon adds another fine H . P . Lovecraft adaptation to his filmography . Godden and Gordon , of course , would go on to work on another Lovecraft adaptation , the ' Masters of Horror ' entry ' Dreams in the Witch-House ' .
What ever happened to the dog ? ? ?	Nice little horror / mystery in which L . A . lawyer Jeff Mills ( Timothy Daly ) rescues sexy stranger Miranda Reed ( Kelly Preston ) from her creepy boyfriend , Aldys ( Anthony Crivello ) , who warns Jeff that he " doesn't know what he's getting into " . Jeff should have listened . Miranda ultimately has to reveal to him that she's a member of a witches ' coven . . . and they " want her back " . Generally speaking , I didn't think it was that bad . It's moody and understated , with a decent music score , and pretty good acting . Daly pulls off the " nice guy " bit well enough and Preston is both alluring and enigmatic . Rick Rossovich is also likable in the requisite best friend role . Audra Lindley , in a performance miles away from the kindly Mrs . Roper of ' Three's Company ' , Cary-Hiroyuki Tagawa ( as a detective specializing in occult related crimes ) , and Crivello ( his bad 1980's rock star hairstyle aside ) definitely add to the film with their presence . It really picks up towards the end , as an utterly blinded-by-love Jeff stops acting sensibly and frantically searches for his beloved . There were some moments that I liked . One has the coven pressing their hands and faces to Jeff's window , a scene that is both kind of comical and disconcerting at the same time , but it leads to a weird sort of effect ( one of the few in this movie ) where they seem to be pushing the house inward . Another is the quiet moment of suspense ( just before all ultimate revelations are made ) where Jeff is looking for a pivotal location . Like I say , I don't think that it's a bad movie . Of course it's no " Rosemary's Baby " style classic , but it's entertaining-enough small-scale genre fare , and the downbeat ending ensures that it can't immediately be forgotten . Other familiar actors like Stefan Gierasch and M . C . Gainey have smaller roles ; Gainey is a hoot as a nutty survivalist type . Incidentally , don't hold your breath waiting for a DVD release ; if there's any truth to what I've read on this film's message board , it may never happen .
Fairly good slasher flick .	This rural slasher centers around Melissa ( Aleisa Shirley ) , a supposed 15-year-old beauty who figures prominently in a rash of killings ; the victims are young guys with the fatal tendency to lust after her . The local good ol ' boy sheriff ( Bo Hopkins , in the kind of role that he was seemingly born to play ) not only has to try to solve this baffling mystery , he has to deal with a detective junkie daughter ( " Friday the 13th Part III " cutie Dana Kimmell ) who keeps sticking her nose into the case , as well as local racist toughs ( particularly hulking Don Stroud as Billy ) who want to believe that the local Indians are responsible . The whole element of adding racism to a standard slasher story is one factor that makes this something unusual . Also , it's amusing to see a slasher with such a high mystery quotient . The movie follows one path most of the way through the movie , only for it to be revealed as a red herring with a last minute revelation that's unexpected since it comes from out of nowhere . Those expecting more of a typical slasher could very well be disappointed . Voyeurs will love seeing a protracted shower sequence no less than two minutes into the movie . The body count is awfully low , and although the murders are very violent , they may not be shown in enough detail to satisfy gore hounds . The cast is way above average for this sort of thing . The strong list of actors includes Patrick Macnee , Susan Strasberg , Don Shanks ( portrayor of The Shape in the fifth " Halloween " movie ) , Sharon Farrell , Michael Pataki , Henry Wilcoxon , and Larry Storch . My major beef is that drippy ballad that got to be way too much for me way too soon . Otherwise , this is a decent enough movie of its type and slasher enthusiasts / completists may want to check it out .
" You're messing with the wrong guy ! "	Sentimental and farcical comedy from writer / producer / director John Hughes , who previously had had success with his teen-oriented growing pains movies , about uptight marketing executive Neal Page ( Steve Martin ) who is trying to get home for Thanksgiving and runs into one aggravating problem after another - especially after he makes the acquaintance of loudmouthed , lovable " Shower Curtain Ring Guy " Del Griffith ( John Candy ) . The only thing that gives the film its R-rating is Martin's hilarious , rapid-fire use of the f-word in a tirade against a too-chipper car rental agent ( Edie McClurg ) . Otherwise , it might make for decent family viewing , and it teaches us that old lesson : not to always go on first impressions . As Neal Page himself remarks at the end , he says he has become wiser through his experiences . Martin and Candy are / were old pros , and they handle their roles just right . Hughes does not take the film over the top , and instead treats these characters as real human beings , making us the audience care about them as well . In fact , I would dare to say that Candy was rarely better , in one of the best roles I think that he ever had . We are all truly less well off for not having him in this world any longer . The film doesn't quite do for me what it used to ; there truly are good laughs and inspired moments ( in particular , I have the rant in the hotel room memorized almost word-for-word ) but I think that overall too many viewings in the past ( and therefore , too much familiarity with the material ) have blunted my feelings somewhat . Ira Newborn's music score is at times so utterly stupid it ought to make you laugh out loud . I used to think that the ending was perhaps TOO sentimental , but then , I now think , how could it end any other way ? Look for funny roles for guest star Kevin Bacon ( as the " taxi racer " ) and " Spider-Man 2 " co-star Dylan Baker ( in his film debut ) . Jeri Ryan was also supposed to have appeared in this but her scenes were cut . A MUST for fans of Martin , Candy , and Hughes .
A very visceral and intense vengeance-driven Western .	Richard Harris is Sean Kilpatrick , the unlikely sheriff of a small Texas town who always tries to avoid violence . However , he undergoes a major change of heart once Frank Brand ( an excellent Rod Taylor ) , a cold-blooded outlaw , and his nasty gang , cause a ruckus in his town , and lead to the deaths of Kilpatrick's wife and son . Kilpatrick relentlessly tracks them down , even as they cross the border into Mexico , where Kilpatrick's progress is both helped and hindered by Mexican policeman Gutierrez ( Al Lettieri ) , who is also after Brand but wants to do things the legal way . While this Western ( from a story by Samuel Fuller , also the original director but fired after disputes with star Harris ) won't be for everybody because of its grim and sometimes ugly nature , there's no doubt that it hits a real nerve . It doesn't glorify vigilantism and instead works as an examination of how an obsession with " justice " can lead basically good people down a very dark path . As the movie goes on , Kilpatrick displays a newfound proclivity towards ruthlessness . ( Perhaps most interesting is having Brand display a touch of humanity late in the movie as he tries to reach out to his own daughter . ) It also serves as a good contrast between conflicting ideas as Kilpatrick and Gutierrez strike up their rather volatile relationship . Excellent widescreen photography is one asset ; a most amusing supporting cast is another . Neville Brand is great as " Choo Choo " , so named for a rail tie at the end of one limb where his hand used to be . William Smith is interesting as the thuggish but seemingly mentally challenged " Schoolboy " , and Paul Benjamin is fine as Jacob , the dapper black gentleman who for whatever unfathomable reason rides with these men and puts up with a lot of their nonsense . But Taylor is the most fun as the swaggering lowlife who puts the whole plot into motion . The movie is rather slowly paced , but offers a very adult story for Western fans . It packs a rather mean punch and while not particularly memorable , it's still pretty good entertainment .
An enjoyably odd early 70's exploitation picture .	The always fun Andrew Prine memorably plays the title character , Simon Sinestrari . He's a warlock who lives in a storm drain , of all places . The plot is set into motion when he makes the acquaintance of Turk ( George Paulsin ) in prison . Turk brings him to a party presided over by mover-and-shaker " Hercules " ( Gerald York ) where he's asked to perform for them . The problem is that often people just don't take Simon seriously . But they learn their lesson soon enough . He's the real deal , and doesn't take it well when anyone crosses him in any way . Things truly begin unraveling when he realizes he's attracted to Linda ( sexy Brenda Scott , to whom Prine was actually married prior to making the picture ) , the pill-addicted daughter of the district attorney ( Norman Burton ) . While ultimately I felt that the film went on a little long , it's still fair to say that this is a quite interesting and unconventional experience . The screenplay is courtesy of Robert Phippeny , a real-life warlock who provides it with plenty of juicy and florid dialog , which Prine delivers with relish . It does have some fine scenes , not the least of which is the ritual highlighted by group nudity ( including even those people who have no business being nude ) . One of its most appealing aspects is the sense of humor throughout ; a case in point is Turk needing to be de-stimulated , if you know what I mean . The special effects sequences lend a particularly trippy quality to all of it . Director Bruce Kessler definitely succeeded in doing this film his own way , subverting typical film-making techniques ( for one thing , saving all of the credits for the end of the film certainly wasn't very common back then ) and giving his cinematographer David L . Butler ample opportunity to put his own stamp on the film . But the main reason to seek this film out is to watch its star in action . Prine truly shows here what an under-appreciated talent he is , investing himself 100 % in his flamboyant role and doing a fine job of carrying the film . " Simon , King of the Witches " is worth a look for cult film fans everywhere .
Fun and likable ode to mid-60's culture .	A very cool assemblage of up-and-coming actors form an amusing ensemble in director Floyd Mutrux's follow-up to " American Hot Wax " . A few stories are told amid a stream of cheerfully lowbrow comedic highlights as a gang of young punks set out to have a great time on Halloween night 1965 . Their favorite hang-out , Tubby's drive-in , is due to be demolished and they're going to enjoy it while it still stands . The incredible non-stop lineup of vintage songs is a big plus , and some of the young cast members really play their roles to the hilt . Robert Wuhl is a hoot as irrepressible Newbomb , mugging his way through all of his scenes . Who can forget his hysterical rendition of " Volare " ? Tony Danza and a stunning Michelle Pfeiffer also make their film debuts as the couple who could potentially be split up due to her acting aspirations and his feelings on the matter . There's also Gary Graham as Jimmy Shine , set to go off to Vietnam , determined to serve his country but understandably afraid that he won't come back alive . Much of the rest of the actors merely take part in the series of night long pranks . Even if some of them aren't " name " actors , doubtless you'll recognize them , and they include Fran Drescher , Leigh French , Gailard Sartain , Stuart Pankin , Richard Schaal , T . K . Carter , Debra Feuer , Art La Fleur , and JoMarie Payton . Other comic highlights include the " one armed violinist " bit , and the " spiking " of the punch . There's quite a collection of muscle cars and a drag race to boot . Overall , I understand it's easy for some people to write it off as a lowbrow version of " American Graffiti " , but it's hard to resist . It creates some really good vibes and I imagine would resonate strongly for those of a certain age who actually lived through this era and participated in just the kinds of things that go on here . It's a very likable , all-in-good-fun celebration of the culture of the times and the carefree mischievousness of kids and their thwarting of authority and good taste . I'm sure it will leave a smile on some of its viewers ' faces .
Decent entertainment .	1980's style treatment of endlessly enduring story of disfigured composer , worshiping an aspiring young opera star from afar , who kills assorted people in order to further her career . This time , the titular , tragic menace is named Eric Destler , and is played by Freddy Krueger himself , a . k . a . Robert Englund , who is very effective , emoting in a heartfelt manner . Jill Schoelen plays the young singer Christine , and she's actually pretty appealing , offering a likable performance as a sweet young ingénue type . I'll just say here that I'm not an aficionado of Gaston Leroux's novel , or the numerous stage productions and feature film adaptations that it has spawned . Therefore , I can't make any comparisons , although this entertaining film manages the neat trick of being classy and gory at the same time . It has an opulent , well-photographed look , and on the other side , flashy and shocking makeup effects by Kevin Yagher ( in this version , the Phantom hides his ugly visage by stitching dead flesh onto his face rather than wearing a mask ) . The underground lair looks impressively seedy , and the music is of course haunting and lovely . The decent supporting cast is another plus . The 1925 silent version with Lon Chaney is probably bound to remain the definitive film interpretation of the work , but I think that this enjoyable - if forgettable - film is a good , respectable effort . Be on the lookout for a very young Molly Shannon , appearing near the beginning and end of the picture .
" What , a guy from the seventeenth century is telling me how to drive ? "	Decent horror genre entertainment in which a smiling disciple of Satan , known simply as " The Warlock " ( blond-haired , handsome genre veteran Julian Sands ) , escapes into the 20th century before he can be executed , and sets out to obtain the discarded pieces of The Grand Grimoire , otherwise known as Satan's version of The Bible . His long ago nemesis , the incredibly intense Giles Redferne ( Richard E . Grant ) pursues him all the while , with modern-day lady Kassandra ( Lori Singer ) along for the ride . Well , it isn't the most stimulating or original movie of its kind ever made - the whole good vs . evil theme has played out in far too many movies by this point - but director Steve Miner keeps it moving ; working from an earlier script by David Twohy ( " The Arrival " , " Pitch Black " ) , he keeps it lively , engrossing ( although that whole sequence in the airport and on the plane certainly isn't to be believed ! ) , and darkly humorous as well . Sands and Grant are charismatic opponents and they deliver their antiquated language quite well . Singer is appealing enough as the poor sap caught up in their ongoing battle . Just speaking for myself , the lead actors are probably what I enjoy best about this movie . The special effects are generally quite good ; the film offers some spurts of violence although the worst stuff is never actually shown on camera . One touch I liked was the lack of color in the opening scenes set in 1691 ; the film brightens once we are brought into the " present day " . Jerry Goldsmith's score is also worth noting ; he'd already done the whole Latin chant thing for " The Omen " series and won his Oscar for the first one , so it's good that he doesn't repeat himself here . Performing in supporting and bit parts are such actors and actresses as cult favorite Mary Woronov , Ian Abercrombie ( " Army of Darkness " , ' Seinfeld ' ) , Kay Kuter ( ' Green Acres ' , " The Last Starfighter " ) , and Brandon Call ( " The Adventures of Ford Fairlane " , ' Step by Step ' ) . Co-star Kevin O'Brien was also in director Miner's " Friday the 13th Part III " , as the white biker Loco , so it's kind of funny to see him playing the gay roommate here ! Overall , it's fun to watch , and in the 1980's when it was made , would have been something of a relief from the usual run of " let's kill all the teenagers " movies that flooded the market in that decade .
" Praise God , pass the ammunition . "	Unrelentingly graphic , right-in-your-face modern remake of Wes Craven's rural horror thriller of 1977 , in which mutated survivors of atomic testing in the American southwest become deranged cannibals who prey on " normals " stupid enough to get lost down there . The Carter family are on their vacation , and after deciding to take a shortcut suggested to them by a decrepit gas station attendant , have a terrible accident that strands them in the middle of nowhere . Nothing really happens at first , but once night falls . . . I'd read that even Craven himself was shocked at how far these filmmakers , led by director Alexandre Aja ( " Haute Tension " ) were willing to go . " The Hills Have Eyes ' 06 " is , once it gets going , a non-stop descent into barbarism , depravity , and cruelty . It's a powerful if minimalist experience , a high old time for hardcore horror fans but an unmitigated turn off for reserved and / or faint-hearted viewers . I've never thought that the original version was that gory , but boy this movie sure is . I had some hopes for this remake once I saw the cast list - Ted Levine , Kathleen Quinlan , Robert Joy , Tom Bower , Billy Drago ( rescued from B-movie hl after many years ) , and , to a lesser extent , the younger cast members - Aaron Stanford , Emilie de Ravin , Dan Byrd , and Vinessa Shaw . The cast does not fail to disappoint me , I can say that much . Actually pretty faithful to the original version , with not too many modern touches other than the introduction of cell phones , but of course , the cell phones don't work in such a rural setting . ( Neither does the CB radio . ) Late into the movie we get a new sequence that pads the running time maybe a little too much . While watching Doug ( Stanford ) during this sequence , you've got to wonder , how much punishment can one man take ? The final shot of the movie seems to be suggesting sequel ( cue the groans ) ; the first movie got an inferior sequel , and studios always seem to think in terms of possible franchises in this particular genre , so the possibility of a sequel ( or a prequel , for all we know ) comes as no surprise at all . I thought it was incredibly potent , and actually pretty entertaining . It's simply one of those movies that will appeal basically to the hardcore horror fans and not very many others . I can understand why some people would find this repugnant in the extreme , I really do ; I liked it , but I know that if you don't already enjoy this kind of thing , I'm sure as heck not going to convince you otherwise .
Now there's an exhibit you don't see every day !	Basically a creature feature set in a museum , the film deals with the attempts of a biologist / researcher ( Penelope Ann Miller ) and a police lieutenant ( Tom Sizemore ) to find and kill a monster that was created from a fungus that causes living things to evolve in a new , beastly way . . . and crave the hypothalamus portion of the brain as a means of survival . Despite a lack of originality , and a less than perfect script ( to put it charitably ) , this okay movie delivers the goods reasonably well , thanks to a professional and talented film-making team , and an inspired setting . It's slick , it keeps moving , has an interesting cast ( which includes a number of actors from previous Peter Hyams films ) , and features the show-stopping work of the Stan Winston studio . The creature is done with both practical and animated effects , and it emerges as the real star of this film . Audra Lindley , a . k . a . " Mrs . Roper " of ' Three's Company ' and ' The Ropers ' , appears in her final feature film performance ( as the coroner ) , and has one line that may shock you when you remember it's coming from Mrs . Roper's mouth . If there's one major quibble that I have , it's the amount of darkness in this film . It's as if the film-makers felt that they had to keep everything out of the light . Even scenes that should be fairly well-lit have a lot of darkness and shadows . Not memorable at all but pretty entertaining regardless . Based on the novel by Douglas Preston and Lincoln Child .
Once again , we return to Skull Island . . .	In 1930's era NYC , renegade film-maker Carl Denham ( Jack Black ) shanghais playwright Jack Driscoll ( Adrien Brody ) , latches on to desperate former vaudevillian Ann Darrow ( Naomi Watts ) , and takes off in a ship for an obscure island where he intends to shoot his latest picture - and where they will meet towering uber-gorilla King Kong . Third film version of classic beauty-and-the-beast story takes full advantage of the advances in digital effects , creating some extremely impressive environments and some fierce and disgusting creatures . This picture is never less than entertaining ( Peter Jackson is no hack film-maker , that's for sure ) , although it suffers from a bit of overkill . A very large portion of the film is set on the island ( it's a very long time before Kong is brought back to NYC ) and there's a non-stop - I mean non-stop - variety of crises and dangers for the heroes to overcome . Dinosaurs and insects and worms and bats , oh my ! It's not that none of this works , I just thought that I would have appreciated this more had the picture moved a little quicker . It all becomes a little redundant after a point . The islanders in this version are actually a pretty fierce , frightening bunch themselves - in their own way , every bit as appalling as the creatures on the island ( this might not sit well for more politically correct viewers ) . The cast is quite good - some of them are fun to watch ( the incredible Andy Serkis , a . k . a . " Gollum " from the LotR trilogy , " plays " both Kong and Lumpy the cook , and darn is he good ) . Watts has an impressive scene where she actually performs her vaudeville routine for Kong . It's a tribute to their abilities that these performers can still all register strongly even when all of the surrounding action is so , well , in-your-face . Colin Hanks , Thomas Kretschmann , Evan Parke , and Jamie Bell are also part of the solid ensemble . It was a nice touch to pay tribute to the original 1933 classic by setting this version in 1930's era NYC ; even some lines from that version turn up in this one . At least we don't have to hear lines like " There's a woman out there now on the run from an enormous turned-on ape " from the 1976 version . The climax works pretty well . Kong goes back up the Empire State Building this time , and the scene is very well staged , although Ann Darrow's propensity to always be putting herself in as much jeopardy as possible comes off as annoying . Film-maker Frank Darabont has a cameo as one of the airplane gunners . All in all , a worthy viewing experience , even with its flaws . At least Jackson never holds back and gives the audience their money's worth and then some . I will say this - even at about three hours long , it's never boring !
The corpse is the " life " of the party !	Two young insurance company employees , Larry ( Andrew McCarthy ) and Richard ( Jonathan Silverman ) discover an instance of fraud and report it to their boss Bernie ( Terry Kiser ) . Unfortunately for them , Bernie is the one behind the fraud , and he asks his mobster associate to take them out . Unfortunately for Bernie , the mobster sends his hit man to eliminate Bernie instead . Larry and Richard arrive at Bernie's gorgeous beach house for the weekend and , after discovering that Bernie is dead , manage to make it look like he is still alive so that they can enjoy the rest of the weekend . An uncomplicated , very slightly plotted farce that is actually pretty fun if it hits you in the right frame of mind . The whole thing is extremely silly and yet extremely funny at times . McCarthy and Silverman are very lively , but Kiser completely steals the movie as the title corpse . I first noticed this amusing actor on a hilarious episode of ' Three's Company ' , and have remained amused by his performances ever since . However , I think that sad-eyed cult actor Don Calfa ( " Chopper Chicks in Zombietown " , " The Return of the Living Dead " is also worth mentioning , in a good comedy performance as the hit man who grows increasingly flustered in his attempts to kill Bernie once and for all . Catherine Mary Stewart is attractive and appealing enough as the girl Richard is interested in . It also seems to be part satire : a commentary on self-absorbed rich jerks who are so into what they themselves are doing that they can't notice ( or even sense ) that Bernie is dead . The movie's Canadian director , Ted Kotcheff , appears on screen as Richard's father . All in all , a good comedy . I give it .
Fairly effective grind-house thriller .	No-count hippies Ray ( Jason Williams ) and Alex ( Bill Osco ) are in the process of completing a drug deal , when they are confronted by border patrol officers and mangy psychotic Ray blows most of them away . Now on the lam , they still find opportunities to commit more crimes . Soon they're involved in kidnapping , theft , and more murder . The more sensitive and conscientious Alex finds himself at odds with the unbalanced Ray the entire time . Written and directed by Walter Cichy , this provides a decent amount of sleazy and sordid thrills . There's plenty of violence ( Rick Baker supplies the gruesome makeup effects ) , a fair amount of female flesh on display , and an unhinged Williams dominating the proceedings as a true sociopath . Lots of sunny Southwestern scenery and the recurrence of drippy folk tunes are also part of the mix . In true 1970's fashion , it leads to an enjoyably downbeat ending . The acting is admittedly pretty bad ( although the quirky character of Collins is amusing nevertheless ) , with sexy Diane Keller in a pivotal supporting role as a hostage . James Nite as the effeminate , whining ice cream man is so annoying that his death couldn't come soon enough for me . I thought this was a pretty entertaining movie of its type . It may have moved along a little slowly , but it still offered a respectable amount of sleaze .
A memorably twisted low-budgeter .	The impossibly sexy Rosie Holotik plays Charlotte Beale , a new nurse at one of those movie-type asylums where the doctor in charge has his own , unorthodox ways of treating the inmates . Reluctantly bringing her on board is the officious Dr . Masters ( Anne MacAdams , a . k . a . Annabelle Weenick ) . The inmates don't take too kindly to Charlotte , either . Part mystery , part horror , this initial effort from B-movie director S . F . Brownrigg has an oppressive feel to it . These colorful psychos , including a nymphomaniac with no self-esteem , a gentle giant who's already had a lobotomy , and a supposed " judge " who speaks in legalese jargon , dominate the screen with their unnerving presence . It's a picture that works fairly well , establishing the gritty , grim atmosphere right from the get go . Some brief bursts of graphic violence also help to give it that good old fashioned exploitative quality . It builds in intensity as the imperiled heroine struggles to maintain her own sanity , offering one surreal encounter after another . Particularly effective is the poetry-quoting , dotty old Mrs . Callingham . For cheap 1970's era cheese , it's pretty effective , with a particularly nasty climax . I had a pretty good time watching it .
My first Al Adamson flick .	Reanhauer ( Bill Roy ) is the leader of a desert-dwelling cult who tries to resurrect one of his people , only to have a heart attack himself ! He ends up dying on an operating table , and for the sake of revenge , his spirit takes over the body of the title character ( Jill Jacobson ) , who then proceeds to go about hacking and slashing until her fellow nurses learn what needs to be done to exorcise the demon . While I know enough about the directors ' filmography to know that it primarily consists of outright schlock , " Nurse Sherri " is really not all that bad . Sure , it's clear that this was very low-budget stuff , yet all that I found egregiously cheesy about it were the visual effects . The acting is not as bad as one might expect , either . There are two different versions available of this on DVD . A much more sex-oriented version featuring bountiful amounts of T & A is the original cut , with such hilariously silly vignettes as the victim and and her love interest sharing their " strangest sex " moments , including one involving fellatio during a college lecture ! The movie would then be re-cut for theatrical version with the horror elements emphasized more strongly . Some scenes are dropped with new ones added ( with Stevens , the role played by J . C . Wells , expanded ) . The movies ' most memorable sequence in this cut is a scene in a foundry , and it works quite well . This cut of the movie is more interesting overall ; I would recommend that a viewer see them both and compare them . Both versions hit their stride in the final third , and benefit from a marvelously scene-stealing performance from Bill Roy as the crazed Reanhauer , and a moody climax set in a graveyard ( although actually filmed in Adamsons ' backyard ! ) . Marilyn Joi is also worth mentioning as the cute nurse who is attracted to football player turned patient Marcus Washington ( Prentiss Moulden ) , who's lost his eyes in a car accident , and who incidentally is key to resolving the story with his knowledge of voodoo rituals . The movie also makes amusing use of music from composer Harry Lubins ' personal collection , including compositions for such TV series as ' One Step Beyond ' and ' The Outer Limits ' . " Nurse Sherri " ( known by more alternate titles ( including " Beyond the Living " and " Hospital of Terror " ) than any other Adamson movie ) is actually fairly entertaining low-budget fare . I ended up having a good time watching it .
Hard to dislike .	In the 31st century , the crew - macho Thor ( Stephen Macht ) , affable Buzz ( James David Hinton ) , bumbling Captain Butt ( Avery Schreiber ) , volatile Maurice ( Lionel Mark Smith ) , mellow Sam Wo ( Tad Horino ) , and the lifelike feminine robot of the title ( Dorothy Stratten ) - of a spaceship named The Infinity are assigned to a decades-long mission to retrieve an object known as The Blue Star , which a Darth Vader-like villain named Ordric ( played by Ronald Knight and voiced by Percy Rodrigues ) also wants to obtain . " Galaxina " is probably primarily known for being a vehicle for the extremely comely and adorable and ill-fated Ms . Stratten , but in all honesty she doesn't have too much to do for a fair portion of the movies ' running time . She still proves to be quite easy to watch , making the most out of every moment on screen . The movie itself I think of as being charmingly quirky . It's an easygoing spoof of popular sci-fi - " Star Wars " , ' Star Trek ' , " Alien " ( one of the best gags is in reference to this classic movie ) , and " 2001 : A Space Odyssey " . While there are no real comedy fireworks , it has a likability to it that I couldn't resist . The lack of any real story is evident in the way that the movie just sort of amiably ambles from scene to scene with no sense of importance or urgency . The makeup effects ( an early gig for future Oscar winner Chris Walas ) and visual effects are really not too bad at all . Cinematographer Dean Cundey works his usual magic on giving this low-budget affair a decent look ; the scenes on the desert planet are given a great visual treatment . In addition to the " Alien " gag that I mentioned , other decent bits include a bar ( echoing the memorable cantina scene in " Star Wars " ) where humans are items on the menu , the scenes with the hostile Rock Eater , and even scenes with Ordric , who's actually successfully played for laughs ; his dialog is often genuinely funny . Everybody here looks like they're enjoying themselves , so I was able to have some fun with it as well . It's a laid-back sci-fi comedy that offers pretty good entertainment .
Are you afraid of the dark ?	In the future , a disparate group of people asleep aboard a commercial spaceship is forced to improvise their survival when the spaceship crash-lands on a remote , barren planet . They already have one problem in that one of the passengers is intense criminal Richard Riddick ( Vin Diesel , in his first top-billed role ) ; however , they are soon preyed upon by a strange species of predator that thrives in the darkness - and a rare solar eclipse is soon to take place . While the script for this movie is ultimately on the routine side , it is decently acted and it is especially well-made technically . Location work , photography , and design ( production as well as creature design ) are all very impressive . It is not the most original or stimulating science-fiction / horror picture ever made , far from it , but it still provides good entertainment . Diesel is particularly good at getting under the skin of his intimidating character . It is not ENTIRELY predictable , however , and gets some points forSPOILERhaving a more politically correct ending than most of its type . Filmed on location in the desolate Coober Pedy area of Queensland in Australia . A sequel of sorts is in the works .
One of John Carpenter's more ambitious and provocative films .	" Prince of Darkness " is the second film in what Carpenter calls his " Apocalypse Trilogy " . It began with " The Thing " , and concluded with " In the Mouth of Madness " . We basically deal with the possible end of the world here . A cannister of green liquid is discovered in the basement of a run-down church . It's surmised that , after deciphering of a nearby text , that the liquid represents the son of Satan , soon to take form and bring his father into the world . All that stands between them and their goal are a group of graduate students , led by a professor named Birack ( the always wonderfully eccentric Victor Wong ) and an hysterical priest ( Donald Pleasence ) . " Prince of Darkness " is notable for the way it attempts to develop a link between science and religion . Our characters are using modern technology to determine the reality of concepts rooted in faith . Carpenter wrote the screenplay himself , using the pseudonym " Martin Quatermass " , and uses this little horror film to explore metaphysical beliefs . While its intellectual approach will not appeal to everyone , Carpenter does manage to create some creepy moments and atmosphere . His music score here is among the best that he's done - he certainly knows how to set a mood right up front - and creates a fairly intimate feel to his plot , with a limited amount of characters confined to a single location , and setting up a situation where escape is next to impossible . It has some decent enough jolts involving various manner of insects , passable makeup effects , and a scenario similar to that of zombie pictures with the students succumbing one by one and attacking each other with mindless determination . Now , granted , it's not without its sillier moments - such as a minor character making little effort to avoid getting killed - but it has its assets , as well . The dream sequences are a particularly intriguing plot point . While some of the cast members are rather nondescript , others come off reasonably well . Pleasence and Wong are entertaining leads , with Jameson Parker of ' Simon & Simon ' fame and gorgeous , underrated Lisa Blount likable enough in key supporting parts . Character actor Peter Jason , in his first film for Carpenter ( he went on to appear in " They Live " , ' Body Bags ' , " In the Mouth of Madness " , " Village of the Damned " , " Escape from L . A . " , and " Ghosts of Mars " as well ) is fun as Dr . Leahy , Dennis Dun ( who played Wang in " Big Trouble in Little China " ) is amusing as the skeptical Walter , and it's cool to see the legendary rocker Alice Cooper in a non-speaking bit as a nasty-looking " street schizo " . Overall , " Prince of Darkness " is not without its merits , and is a Carpenter film worth checking out or re-discovering .
Not bad little horror film .	Denise Watson ( Anita Skinner ) is a TV producer who survives an airplane crash . But it would seem that she can't avoid being surrounded by death . She's being stalked by specters , and can't tell if Death is sending these specters after her or if guilt is merely causing her to hallucinate . As the debut picture for director Thom Eberhardt ( who was also the editor ) , who followed this up with his solid 80's sci-fi / horror satire " Night of the Comet " , it has a good premise that certainly does preface the movie " Final Destination " by 17 years . I found it definitely reminiscent of the dreamlike 1962 thriller " Carnival of Souls " , myself . It's been rather obscure for many years , but maybe its recent DVD release will find it some new fans . It has aspects that could be seen as assets by some viewers and liabilities by others : it's a very low-key and slowly paced film , and the very ambiguity of the script might not appeal to those who like their stories more straightforward . That said , it does have a subtly sinister mood and offers some chilling moments . It also offers a fresh spin on " living dead " cinema that was interesting , to say the least . The acting isn't bad either , with Skinner and Kurt Johnson ( as her concerned doctor ) delivering sensitive performances . It also leads to a highly unusual and thus intriguing - if not completely satisfying - conclusion . Still , it's worth seeking out for those looking for a horror picture with a difference . I would say it's good enough to deserve to be better known . Be sure to watch out for Brinke Stevens ( doing an appreciable topless shot ) and Leon ( Robinson ) in small roles .
Not bad take on the Jack the Ripper story .	During the infamous killers ' murder spree , odd pathologist Mr . Slade ( Jack Palance , boosted to star status after his chilling turn as the villain in " Shane " and his Academy Award-nominated performance in " Sudden Fear " ) takes a room with the Harleys ( Frances ' Aunt Bea ' Bavier of ' The Andy Griffith Show ' and Rhys Williams ) . For what he claims is the need to perform experiments , he takes over the attic as well ( hence the title ) . He also becomes smitten with the Harleys ' gorgeous and good-hearted niece , Lily ( Constance Smith ) , a musical performer . This nice and reasonably entertaining little thriller from 20th Century Fox provides Palance with a good vehicle . Both he and the effervescent Smith deliver performances that help to carry the film along . Supporting actors Bavier , Williams , Byron Palmer as the Scotland Yard detective Warwick , and Tita Phillips are all good as well . ( The lack of English accents in a picture set in London is a little distracting , but not unbearably so . ) The picture itself is fairly atmospheric , with good sets and excellent black & white photography . Particularly good are those shots of the victims being confronted by the Ripper , as the camera takes his point of view . The picture also has a pretty good chase scene for its climax . The source novel was filmed previously in 1927 as the Alfred Hitchcock silent " The Lodger " and then filmed again in 1944 under the same title . While this picture may not attain classic status like its predecessors , it makes for some good entertainment , a tense and interesting combination of an English period piece and film noir .
Decent mystery / thriller with exemplary cast as its primary draw .	Detective Barney Caine ( George C . Scott ) gets involved in an increasingly twist-laden plot that begins when an old friend of his is found murdered . As it progresses , he travels to Germany , speaks to a variety of characters , and hooks up with a grieving young woman ( Marthe Keller ) . The story actually began back at the end of World War II and involves the creation of a synthetic fuel which , naturally , certain interests want to stifle no matter what has to be done . It's the actors that really make it worthwhile . The film itself , I thought , had a reasonably engrossing plot . I enjoyed the twists and turns that it took , even if not that many of them were actually surprising . The foreign locale certainly doesn't hurt . The film begins well , and moves slowly - some might feel too slowly for a film without truly effective revelations - towards a rather low-key showdown between the two adversaries . Scott and co-star Marlon Brando , in a typically amusing performance as an oil magnate , don't appear together very often in the film , but their scenes are very effective . Keller is alluring as Lisa , the young woman who knows more than she's letting on . G . D . Spradlin , Richard Lynch , John Van Dreelen , Calvin Jung , Alan North , David Byrd , and Ferdy Mayne all do fine work in supporting roles ; John Gielgud has only one scene but is superb in it . However , Beatrice Straight is wasted in a very minor role . Ike Eisenmann ( from the Disney " Witch Mountain " films of the ' 70's ) and Craig T . Nelson also turn up briefly . Giving this film some sense of relevance of course is its premise , as the film explores subjects still very much on people's minds . It's entertaining enough if not particularly memorable , but works as a meditation on corruption and greed and the machinations of people in certain positions of power .
Wild Ride !	Jack Hammond ( Charlie Sheen ) is a fugitive on the run who ends up kidnapping Natalie Voss ( Kristy Swanson ) , who turns out to be the daughter of snobbish billionaire Dalton Voss ( Ray Wise ) . Most of the film takes place in Natalie's car as Jack attempts to outrace the police on his tail . I like the movie ; I think it is very good for about an hour because it is very well paced ; it moves VERY quickly , and has amusing banter between Jack and Natalie . However , there is a scene that occurs just past the one hour mark that some of you may think is just ridiculous ( you'll know it when you see it ) . I don't like the ending , either . At first the movie seems hip and to have an attitude ( and it pokes fun at some VERY worthy targets ) , and yet at the end it seems to be taking itself seriously . Could have been worse , though . Some points are due for giving Henry Rollins a role as a chatty cop , and Anthony Kiedis and Flea of the Red Hot Chili Peppers as two real morons who attempt to stop Jack themselves . Also , look for Cary Elwes in a cameo as a TV anchorman ( does anybody know if he is related to producer Cassian Elwes ? ) . I give it .
Once again , hell hath no fury like a woman scorned .	Not-bad Spanish-made thriller from the folks at A . I . P . , it tells the story ( kind of old hat now , but not so much when this was made ) of a successful man , this case engineer Vance Pearson ( a very solid Barry Sullivan ) , a married man , who has an affair with Laura ( an absolutely stunning Martha Hyer ) . Feeling guilty about it , he calls it off , but this sets off her inner maniac . The spurned lover promptly sets his house ablaze , killing his wife and daughter , and burning him very , very badly when he tries to save them . After that , all he has to live for is revenge , as he relentlessly tracks Laura down . " Pyro " is a definitely enjoyable , if ultimately not very memorable , thriller . That said , it's certainly made competently enough , with the crew making the most of their various locations . The acting from the two leads is very good , with strong support from the somber-looking Fernando Hilbeck as Vances ' concerned co-worker . Future Jess Franco regular , the incredibly dazzling Soledad Miranda , has a small part as a good-hearted carnival worker with a penchant for rescuing stray dogs ; she's tremendously appealing and adds a fair bit to the films ' later portions . The film moves at a respectable pace , and provides us with some effective sequences , including one where Laura believes Vance to be following her . The final reveal of Vances ' burn-ravaged face pays off well , with decent makeup effects . My main concern actually involved the music ; while not technically bad , it was too overbearing and intrusive at times , taking me out of the action . An interesting and reasonably entertaining fore-runner of films like " Play Misty for Me " and especially " Fatal Attraction " , " Pyro " doesn't appear to be that well known , but is worth checking out if you're interested .
Look out , Norman Bates . . . you've got competition !	In this freakish , outlandish follow-up to his memorable debut , " The Texas Chain Saw Massacre " , Tobe Hooper gives us this silly - yet still shocking and highly amusing - horror film that if nothing else gives us a good dose of cinematic insanity . Neville Brand plays Judd , a decrepit old fool who operates the Starlight , a back-of-the-beyond hotel , who for one thing can't seem to let his guests live long enough to be able to check out . For another , his pet crocodile , living in an enclosure right next to the hotel , just adds to the menace . Often in scenes just mumbling incoherently to himself , Brand is one of the highlights of this film . As is a very young looking Robert Englund , in one of his earliest film appearances , playing a sleazy and kinky lowlife and genially hamming it up in his time on-screen ( his first line proved to be so memorable that it got recycled by Quentin Tarantino many years later ) . Also along on this macabre journey are Carolyn ' Morticia Addams ' Jones in an unattractive character part , original " Texas Chain Saw Massacre " victim Carolyn Jones , obliged to go through more torture here , as well as Mel Ferrer , Stuart Whitman , William Finley ( his performance is as " out there " as Brands ' ! ) , and - providing impressive eye candy for those interested - Janus Blythe of the original " The Hills Have Eyes " , Roberta Collins , and Crystin Sinclaire . Child actress Kyle Richards , shortly before " Halloween " , got introduced to the genre here as a screaming tyke forced to spend much of her on-screen time crawling through filth . Also worth noting : the crocodile is the work of Bob Mattey , known for creating the giant squid in " 20000 Leagues Under the Sea " and Bruce the Shark in " Jaws " . While this won't stand up as the best of his work , it's not all that bad either . Omnipresent country and western songs are supplemented by a genuinely weird electronic music score concocted partly by director Hooper . Another thing I liked was the stylish - sometimes atmospheric - look of a number of shots , which is always a good thing in my book . Basically , this is not bad as these films go . It's fun for what it is .
Worthy 1980's horror anthology .	Julian White ( the legendary , inimitable Vincent Price ) is the librarian / historian for the small Tennessee town of Oldfield . Visited by reporter Bess Chandler ( the equally unique Susan Tyrrell ) after the execution of Julian's murderous niece ( cult actress Martine Beswicke ) , he spins a quartet of macabre stories that all took place in Oldfield . Often potent , hard-hitting entertainment , worth a look for the serious horror fan . An excellent cast is a big draw for this film , including Clu Gulager , Terry Kiser , Harry Caesar , Rosalind Cash , Lawrence Tierney , and Cameron Mitchell , most of them in showy parts . In the first story ( none of them have actual titles ) , Gulager , a familiar face in other 1980's genre pictures , amps up the weirdness factor as a meek looking but really sick middle-aged guy , living with his physically weak sister ( who is actually played by Gulager's late wife ) , who goes on a date with a co-worker he covets , a date that has far-reaching consequences . I thought that this story was probably the weak one of the bunch , with a finale that didn't strike me as particularly imaginative , although it's passable , and the acting by Gulager helps it along . In the second story , pathetic lowlife Jesse Hardwicke ( Kiser ) is mortally wounded by vengeance-seeking gangsters and escapes into the swamps , where he is rescued by the reclusive Felder Evans ( Caesar ) , a man who has discovered how to prolong life . The pathologically greedy Jesse tries to capitalize on this discovery , but Felder ultimately turns the tables on the sleazy jerk , with a resolution that is really , gruesomely effective . It really sells this whole portion of the picture . Story number three is about Amaryllis ( Didi Lanier ) , desperately in love with circus freak Steven Arden ( Ron Brooks ) , who has the ability to munch on glass , razor blades and the like without cutting himself up . What the poor young lady doesn't know is that the power-wielding Snake Woman ( Rosalind Cash , who is fantastic ) doesn't intend to lose Steven or any of her other performers to outside forces . Another story with a final twist that works ( too bad it's kind of sad ) . This is also extremely bloody and the gorehounds watching will probably appreciate this story more than the others . Finally , we have a Civil war story that recalls how the town of Oldfield came to be , when some vengeance-crazed children determine to punish the thuggish soldiers who have come upon their little home . This section , which does sort of play as a variation on " Children of the Corn " , has some horrific moments , psychological touches , and decent performances . After all of this , the traditional wraparound story is itself concluded with an amusing little twist of its own . Overall , an entertaining , respectable film of its kind ; it may not have received mainstream success ( unlike , say the " Creepshows " or " Cat's Eye " or " Tales from the Darkside : The Movie " ) , but here's hoping that it can become something of a cult item . When in Tennessee , visit Oldfield .
Not bad action / revenge saga .	One of the first action movies to explore the lingering after-effects of the Vietnam War , this decent , competently made B picture benefits from good lead performances by Perry King and Don Stroud as former G . I . ' s . The other members of their unit have already been murdered by a former South Vietnamese political liaison ( Park Jong Soo ) whom they had been assigned to escort ; they had believed him to be killed during an attack and left him for dead . He's still very much alive , and is coldly seeking revenge . As King , playing Kyle " Kip " Moore , has to contend with inefficient police detectives ( played by Tony Sheer and the wonderful veteran George Kennedy ) , he determines that he will have to face the stone-faced assassin by himself . Tisa Farrow , the appealing younger sister of Mia , is rather wasted in a part requiring her to do little more than look worried and then be put in peril , but it's fun to watch King and Stroud . Action scenes are basically well done ; director William Fruet does a creditable job of creating tension . An early elongated chase scene is a good example . The final battle isn't bad but isn't as ultimately satisfying as it could have been . The movie isn't always to be taken completely seriously but it's still fairly good of its type . The Niagara Falls setting is a rather inspired one ; it makes for some great locations and adds to the impact of the outdoors sequences . Action fans looking for lesser known flicks to try out might want to look into this one . It has a somberness and grim inevitability to it and is overall more substantial than some of the action flicks out there .
A fun bit of escapism .	In this low-budget Italian picture , the Bronx has become a decrepit " no man's land " where gangs are left to their own devices . The man in charge of it all is ultra-smooth Ogre ( Fred Williamson ) . The story kicks off when Ann ( Stefania Girolami ) , the daughter of the boss of an arms-dealing corporation , runs away and hightails it to the Bronx . She falls in with Trash ( Mark Gregory ) and his biker gang , becoming attached to Trash in the process . The corporation responds by sending hired thug Hammer ( the great Vic Morrow , in his next to last role ) to retrieve the girl . " 1990 : The Bronx Warriors " won't get any points for creativity , as it liberally borrows from earlier films such as " Escape from New York " and " The Warriors " . But what it lacks in originality is made up for by a fair amount of visual style and action . Granted , I was disappointed in that I think that it could have used more action than what was on display . It's also easy to see where the movie was padded ( drumming on the beach , anyone ? ) . Gregory is stiff beyond belief as the gang leader , although some of his supporting cast - George Eastman as Golan and Betty Dessy as Witch - is fun to watch . Williamson , projecting a mighty sense of bad-a cool as always , and Morrow , in fine nasty form , definitely steal the show . Filmed in both Rome and the Bronx , the movie gets a lot out of some great locations . Captured on screen is a perfect atmosphere of desolate and gritty decay . Also , the many gang members sport much weaponry and add a lot of color to the proceedings with their cheesy-as-all-get-out costumes . All in all , the movie is certainly great to look at . The funky pop score is easy to listen to , as well . I was left less than satisfied with the too-abrupt ending , but generally had fun with this flick . Yes , it definitely qualifies as trash , but it's agreeable and entertaining enough trash .
Bronson once again does a great job of ridding the world of human scum .	Charles Bronson plays no-nonsense detective Leo Kessler , up against a cunning adversary . Warren Stacey ( Gene Davis ) is a good-looking guy who has one major thing working against him : he's a depraved creep . Whenever young women spurn his sleazy advances , he goes out and kills them ( in the nude , no less ! ) . However , even when Leo has established Warren as his killer , a serious lack of hard evidence practically guarantees that Warren will walk . So Leo crosses the line , and plants evidence , but when he's forced to admit to this , Warren does indeed go free . Leo begins harassing Warren until the jerk can take it no more and strikes back by targeting Leo's feisty daughter Laurie ( Lisa Eilbacher ) , a student nurse . " 10 to Midnight " was the first of six 1980's collaborations between Bronson and director J . Lee Thompson . It's not quite the standard cop vs . killer picture ; it's certainly kinkier and sleazier than some . There are copious amounts of both female and male nudity , the killer's victims are all attractive young ladies , and it even dares to be quite mean-spirited ( one girl is killed after having attended the funeral of a previous victim ) . It's trash , plain and simple , and enjoyable on that level ( although it's got a very clearly stated message about the inadequacies of the " justice " system ) . Bronson is in fine form as the kind of dedicated cop willing to do anything to get his man . The gorgeous Eilbacher has a great amount of spunk as the daughter . The cast is rounded out by Andrew Stevens as the young and much more by-the-book partner , Wilford Brimley as Bronson's superior , Geoffrey Lewis as a savvy lawyer , and Robert F . Lyons as the district attorney . They're all good , but Davis tends to steal the show , offering a real marvel of a performance as the clever creep . Kelly Preston has one of her earliest roles ( billed as Kelly Palzis ) as one of Laurie's fellow student nurses . It's not without some humor ( Bronson discovering Davis's sex toy is a priceless moment ) and it's all pleasantly easy enough to predict . Bronson and Davis make for a great pair of adversaries and while it's amusing to watch Warren as he carefully puts his plans into motion there's no denying the satisfaction in awaiting the eventual final showdown . And it culminates in an appropriate final line from Leo , letting us know that for every human monster in this type of film there will always be a hard-nosed relentless cop to track him down and put him in his place .
An amiable bit of sex-oriented nonsense .	Likable enough Keith Colouris plays Harry Spencer , instructor at the title place of " learning " where people are basically taught how to have fun in the sun . Keith is visited by his highly animated younger brother Billy ( Corey Feldman ) in time for their uncle Gene ( Al Lewis ) , a shameless horndog and gambler to get in deep with local mobster Johnny Staccato ( James Hong ) . The solution is to have a girls ' beach volleyball game with the Academy , which Gene owns , on the line . It's pretty much a 90's update on the cheerfully stupid sex comedies of the 80's geared to young males . We do get a nonstop bevy of stunning ladies ( conveniently , all of the team members are babes ) and a healthy assortment of bare breasts on display . It's all just amiable enough for undemanding viewers to just go along with it . No great shakes ( as if anyone would expect that ) in terms of script or direction ; the " twists " are easy to predict , all the way down the line . But it's fairly hard to resist nonetheless . At least everyone seems to be having a good time . The rock soundtrack is definitely enjoyable , and even if the movie is primarily aiming for the titillation factor , it's certainly not as raunchy as some other films of its kind . Feldman as usual displays an easygoing attitude , although truth be told he may well have been hired for name value ; Colouris is the actual main character . Old pros Lewis and Hong are both fairly funny in stereotyped roles , while Elizabeth Kaitan is an appealing love interest for Colouris . Especially amusing is seeing Ron Jeremy pop up in a small part as an aggressive club owner . This might not size up to be anything special , even for its genre , but it's all agreeably silly and sexy .
A fun movie .	Six Yankee folk happen upon an isolated Southern town where the locals are gleefully celebrating their centennial . Exactly what they're celebrating they never make clear , although it becomes clear enough later on that this dose of Southern hospitality isn't to be taken at face value . Herschell Gordon Lewis masterpiece is a great schlock film . He actually doesn't serve us up wall-to-wall gore although there are some good and gruesome sights to behold . Death by ax , falling rock , horses going in opposite directions , barrels with nails sticking through the sides , it's all here . More ambitious than his first film , the campy , ridiculous , and riotous " Blood Feast " , this twisted piece of southern-fried shock cinema delivers some spirited entertainment . The acting here is also a little bit better than in " Blood Feast " . William Kerwin , a . k . a . Thomas Wood , returns as the male hero , and Connie Mason is a sexy and fairly appealing female lead . All of the actors playing these sadistic antagonists clearly have a blast . I particularly like Jeffrey Allen as the bombastic mayor . And the music also got me feeling pretty good . The Pleasant Valley Boys supply some catchy ditties and I can still hear that theme song inside my head as I type this . The ultimate twist to the movie lends it a degree of mystery and enhances my overall enjoyment of the picture . While the level of gore is actually restrained compared to that of " Blood Feast " , some gore enthusiasts may still get a kick out of the film . It's really hard to resist , an upbeat , rollicking cult classic with enough dark , dark humor and good vibes to qualify as a good time . Itself inspired by the 1954 musical " Brigadoon " , this film was remade as " 2001 Maniacs " in
A good apocalyptic tale .	Robert Morgan ( Vincent Price ) is the title character , left all alone after a germ turns all other people into shambling creatures exhibiting both vampire and zombie traits . Eking out a precarious day-to-day existence , he spends his time either searching for these creatures and destroying them , or searching for other survivors . Taking an appropriately grim , despairing , and downbeat tone , this was the first adaptation of Richard Mathesons ' novel " I am Legend " to reach the screen . Matheson himself co-wrote the screenplay , using the pseudonym " Logan Swanson " . It captures a sense of isolation and loneliness - the sometimes deserted , sometimes corpse-strewn locations are utilized frequently to great effect . One memorable plot device is the dispatching of the creatures in a blazing pit that creates a nicely hellish image . Comparisons to George Romeros ' " Night of the Living Dead " are certainly apt ; one can look at a number of films from the era and see where the director might have gotten some inspiration for his later horror film . Refraining from ever getting really hammy , Price delivers an engaging performance and is a solid anchor for the film . This film being shot in Rome , the rest of the cast is made up of Italian actors , including Giacomo Rossi-Stuart ( " Kill , Baby . . . Kill ! " ) and ravishing beauties Franca Bettoia and Emma Danieli . Fine set decoration ( note the look of Prices ' house ) by Brunello Serena Ulloa and cinematography by Franco Delli Colli give the picture a good look . " The Last Man on Earth " is an entertaining little film even if the creatures themselves don't come off as very threatening or scary . It makes for an interesting comparison to the later cinematic adaptations , namely " The Omega Man " ( 1971 , starring Charlton Heston ) and " I am Legend " ( 2007 , starring Will Smith ) .
Not exactly what I'd call " horror " , but likable , silly , and fun .	Shameless Bill Martin ( an incredibly engaging Dick Foran ) has in the past failed at his get-rich-quick schemes , then hits upon inspiration . Upon the arrival of the gregarious Tobias ( Leo Carrillo ) , who is in possession of a treasure map , Bill and hapless sidekick " Stuff " ( Fuzzy Knight ) concoct an " island adventure " business . Their first group of customers arrives at the island only to be terrorized by a " phantom " who eventually starts dispatching them . For a movie with " horror " in the title , this isn't exactly at any time scary or suspenseful . It's more of a lightweight , playful romp , with a very heavy accent on outright comedy . The phantom character isn't even very menacing , having too much screen time and would have benefited more from not having any dialog . As a variation on the whole " murder-in-an-old-dark-house " formula , it works out alright . It's the kind of movie with a plot simple and straightforward enough that the barely hour long running time pretty much flies by . The characters are amusing enough , with Carrillo , Knight and the extremely brassy Iris Adrian quite effectively chewing on the scenery . Peggy Moran is very cute , and Hobart Cavanaugh and Lewis Howard scoring as , respectively , the prissy Professor and the effete , pompous , and eternally bored Thurman . Filmed in record time by director George Waggner ( " The Wolf Man " ) and crew and released to theaters very shortly after as part of a package deal with " Man Made Monster " . It's an entertaining , amiable film with enough laughs , atmosphere , and twists to make it a pleasant viewing experience .
It's time for more bloody hijinks with everybody's favorite transsexual slasher .	You just can't keep a good psycho down : homicidally puritanical killer Angela Baker has , this time , assumed another schmuck victims ' identity and enrolled as a camper at the same camp where she was a counselor in the last sequel . Fed up with her annoying fellow campers , it goes without saying that she'll teach them some good and gruesome lessons . I have to say that Pamela Springsteen is an enjoyable presence in parts two and three . She really is what makes these pictures fun . Although , to be fair , director Michael A . Simpson and writer Fritz Gordon did have fun with these pictures as well . While part two was poking fun at slasher conventions , part three here just throws them right out the window . Just witness the first murder within the first few minutes , taking place in the city as Angela uses a garbage truck to mow down her first victim . What hurts the picture overall is a battle lost with the MPAA where the juiciest tidbits of gore were whittled down to almost nothing , quite effectively diluting the impact of the murders . The murders themselves aren't as creative as I would have liked , although it's cool to see one idiot lose her head to the blades of a lawnmower . An air-headed reporter also ends up snorting something that isn't cocaine . In a key supporting role , Michael J . Pollard offers his very eccentric presence to one of the head camp counselors , a horny and creepy old goat . As can be expected , he definitely walks away with all of his scenes . Ultimately , I would watch it for Springsteen ( not long after this , she gave up acting to pursue photography full-time ) . It's always a blast to watch her do her thing ; there's even a rather heartfelt sequence where she relives a moment from the previous film . Enhanced by some kick-beep rock ' n ' roll , " Sleepaway Camp III : Teenage Wasteland " is a good dose of irreverent slasher mayhem .
Low-budget campy horror , hilariously stuck in the 1980's .	After the high creep factor of the offbeat 1983 slasher picture " Sleepaway Camp " , the makers of this belated sequel went in a new direction , playing everything for laughs in an enjoyably silly fashion . Original murderer Angela Baker is now Angela Johnson ( Pamela Springsteen ) , who's now an actual female thanks to a sex change operation " at the taxpayer's expense " . Supposedly rehabilitated ( HA ! ) , she turns up at Camp Rolling Hills and makes it her mission to punish anybody who offends her set of values . Writer Fritz Gordon and director Michael A . Simpson do an interesting job of having fun with their premise - Gordon's dialog ain't so hot , but some of his ideas ( almost every character is named after a 1980's " Brat Pack " actor ) and the execution do work . It's better than trying for legitimate scares and coming up short . These murders get fairly inventive ( the murder of Ally has got to be one of the most striking - not to mention disgusting - kills you'll see in this kind of film ) and the people in the film - I'll stop short of calling many of them " actors " - are amusing , especially Brian Patrick Clarke as T . C . , he of the film's most prominent mullet . Also , there is the offbeat casting of veteran Walter Gotell , who some viewers will recognize as the character of " Gogol " in some of the James Bond adventures , as " Uncle John " . And let's not forget that 1980's era heavy metal ! If you enjoy gratuitous gore , obligatory female nudity , 1980's era haircuts , wardrobes , and music , and want to see Springsteen display none of her more famous sibling's musical talent , give this little film a try and you'll probably end up happy . Gordon and Simpson also offer up a not particularly clever ( I say this just because it seems like an obvious idea to come up with ) but still welcome tip of the hat to such horror icons as Jason , Freddy , and Leatherface in one particular sequence of kills .
A man and his rats .	Interesting combination of make-you-squirm-in-your-seat genre fare and affecting character study has gone on to become a classic of sorts . Bruce Davison memorably portrays the title character , a wimpy and downtrodden loser dominated by his mother Henrietta , played by none other than the Bride of Frankenstein herself , Elsa Lanchester . Willard works for Al Martin ( Ernest Borgnine ) , a slimy and self-serving type who actually stole the company away from Willards ' father . Willard finds himself a reason to live when he becomes attached to the rats that are now frequenting his property . He goes so far as to dub a white rat " Socrates " and a brown rat " Ben " ( " Ben " would get his own movie when the success of this movie led to a sequel ) . He finds that he can get them to do his bidding , which comes in handy as the movie progresses . Good performances by both the human and rodent stars help to carry this low-key but fairly creepy movie . Davison makes for a marvelously quirky and lonely soul , doing a creditable job at creating sympathy for the character . Both Lanchester and Borgnine - both real scene-stealers - sink their teeth into their respective roles . Borgnine in particular is one of those antagonists whom one can love to hate . In one of her earliest parts , an appealing Sondra Locke plays a potential love interest for Willard . Those expecting more horror , gore , or more of a body count , are going to be disappointed , as the dramatic elements are the ones emphasized the most . I found it interesting that Willards ' eventual burst of self-confidence will come at a price ; the downbeat nature of the story and message that it's never smart to turn on whatever friends one may have give the movie a certain lasting impact . It would have been nice if the remake ( itself over five years old now ) could have generated a DVD release of this movie ; as of this date , it still needs one .
I was too hard on this the first time around .	A dozen years belated sequel to his most infamous film , Tobe Hoopers ' " The Texas Chainsaw Massacre 2 " follows a new pair of characters as they interact with the cannibalistic Sawyer clan : " Lefty " Enright ( a well cast Dennis Hopper ) , a certifiably flaky ex-Texas Ranger out for revenge , and " Stretch " Block ( sexy , husky-voiced Caroline Williams ) , a DJ who incurs the wrath of the killers after she records them in the act of butchering some obnoxious budding yuppies . Written by Hoopers ' longtime friend , L . M . Kit Carson , this was always intended to be blatantly comedic . He wanted it to be outrageous in a different way , and he succeeded . Gone is the grainy low-budget atmosphere of the original , replaced by a larger budget , and an amount of camp as well as satire . It's brutal and unrelenting in its own way , it's just nowhere near as scary . The outstanding set piece has the two unlucky kids terrorized all along the highway by Leatherface ; no matter how many times I have seen this , this is a scene that has always worked . Also , replacing the mere suggestion of extreme violence is more obvious in-your-face gore , supplied by the always reliable Tom Savini , who contributes some great work here . Hopper and Williams are supported by the scenery-chewing Bill Moseley , in his first substantial film role , as the plate-in-his-head Chop Top , Bill Johnson , inheriting the role of Leatherface from Gunnar Hansen and doing a fine job , Lou Perryman as the affable good ol ' boy L . G . , Ken Evert replacing John Dugan as Grandpa ( this guy still doesn't have the strength to bash a womans ' brains in ) , and the still quite delightful Jim Siedow as the wonderfully exuberant Cook . Leatherface here is given a new dimension , as we see him developing a bit of affection for Stretch ; this is another intriguing aspect of the script . Knowing full well that one of the great strengths of the original was its art direction / set decoration , the crew here create a nifty , massive set ( located inside an abandoned theme park ) in which the Sawyers can ply their trade . Hooper and Jerry Lambert also contribute a score that is more conventional than what we got the first time around ; this time , we get to hear some rock songs as well as the usual assortment of country tunes . I've now come to appreciate this sequel more , which I wasn't able to do before . Sometimes when a sequel goes in a different direction than its predecessor , it may take some time for it to grow on you , as this picture did for me . I think it's kind of fun ; it has it moments , and sometimes it is genuinely funny .
Not bad " haunted vessel " horror flick .	In this 1980 movie that may well have inspired the 2002 movie " Ghost Ship " ( right down to the poster design ) , a luxury liner captained by unfriendly Ashland ( George Kennedy ) collides with a mysterious freighter . The handful of survivors ends up boarding the freighter , not realizing that their ordeal is ongoing , as the ancient and run-down vessel seems to have a mind of its own and also is clearly out to finish them off . While undeniably crude , and occasionally cheesy , I found " Death Ship " to be a worthwhile horror flick . It has a dead serious tone , with no attempts at humor . The constant shots of the inner workings of the ship add to the whole dingy and creaky atmosphere . As a matter of fact , the ship itself lends so much atmosphere to the movie that it's essentially what makes it work as well as it does . There are a number of effectively macabre moments & sequences . The weary cast ( also including such solid performers as Richard Crenna , Nick Mancuso , Kate Reid , and character actor Saul Rubinek in one of his earliest movie roles ) - most of whom look like all they're thinking about is their paycheck - play uninteresting characters who aren't worth caring much about . But at least the oppressive and forbidding nature of the scenario does create real unease and tension , enhanced by Ivor Slaneys ' ominous music . I think it's a fairly good and creepy little movie and at the least doesn't deserve a " BOMB " rating like it gets in Maltins ' annual paperback movie guide . I can see why some folk might consider it drab but I had a good time with it .
Hot babes , lotsa gore , tons of laughs . . . what's not to love ?	Courtney , the youngest survivor of the original " Slumber Party Massacre " , is now played by Crystal Bernard of ' Wings ' fame . She's a member of an aspiring rock band also consisting of hottie friends Amy ( Kimberly McArthur ) , Sheila ( Juliette Cummins ) , and Sally ( Heidi Kozak ) . Courtney regularly has nightmares about her ordeal ( enabling the film-makers to use a fair bit of archive footage ) , yet is now re-imagining the driller killer as a leather clad rock star ( a hilariously campy Atanas Ilitch ) whose drill is attached to the end of his guitar . And her nightmares somehow start coming real , as the rocker comes after her and her friends . Coming from Roger Cormans ' company Concorde , this is the kind of stuff that you know just ain't that good , but it's definitely good for some entertainment . The girls get crazy , get drunk , have a good time , take off their clothes , their boyfriends show up and clown around - it's all par for the course . The gore is actually pretty good , and there's a lot of it . My favorite is an over-the-top zit gag . Most importantly , writer-director Deborah Brock and company don't take themselves seriously at all . This gets positively goofy at times - the climax is played tongue-in-cheek , with the psycho stopping to do an impromptu musical number in the middle of a pursuit . I have to admit . . . I enjoyed " Let's Buzz " . These silly , sleazy slasher shenanigans are a real hoot .
He could be right next to me , now , as I type .	Mad scientist Jack Griffin ( Claude Rains ) has discovered how to make himself invisible . Problem is , a drug included in the formula has also driven him mad , and soon he is terrorizing the English countryside . One of the all-time great Universal chillers , huh ? Well , I am reasonably impressed , even if I didn't find it particularly scary . It's fast-paced , well-acted ( especially by Rains ) and features special effects that are excellent especially when you consider that this film was made over seventy years ago . One of the best things about these Universal monster movies is that they're not long . They're over before you know it , and this movie is no different . Some people may even wish they were longer . Acting honors definitely go to Claude Rains ( this was his film debut ) . Jack Griffin certainly qualifies as one of the more memorable madmen I've " seen " in motion pictures . By the way , for those of you who don't know , a much younger Gloria Stuart , who was so good as the old version of Rose in James Camerons ' " Titanic " , is the leading lady here . For my tastes , this rates a .
Sit back and enjoy the thrill of the shunt .	Offbeat screenplay by Woody Keith and Rick Fry is partly psychological , and part mind-blowing - I mean really mind-blowing fantasy style horror . Hunky teenage jock Bill Whitney ( TV mainstay Billy Warlock ) is starting to become suspicious of his parents and sister , believing that they are up to some very odd things . It turns out that they - and the white bread clique they belong to . . . are truly different . I shouldn't say any more so as not to spoil the outrageous revelations of this genuinely disgusting and yet oddly interesting little genre picture . While refraining from giving away the movie's secrets ( you really have to see this movie's climax to believe it ) , I have to warn the squeamish to stay away , far away . This is the kind of film that may very well offend some as well as nauseate them . Even I myself , who has seen his fair share of in-your-face gore , was rather unprepared for what I saw . It was like nothing I've seen before . Brian Yuzna , who should be a familiar name to horror fans , made his directing debut here after producing several pictures for Stuart Gordon . No matter how high the " ick " factor may be here , I thought that this was something different , rather irreverent at times . It's not like the usual run of genre fare ; it's not even predictable . It has a story that maintains interest , a reasonably likable protagonist , and amusing supporting characters . Altogether , a fantastical , and yes , surreal experience . It is in bad taste to a degree , but it's impossible to just dismiss . Horror fans are advised to seek it out .
The similarity to " Carrie " is indeed undeniable .	Based on the Stephen King novel , " Firestarter " tells the story of Charlie McGee ( Drew Barrymore ) , more than just the offspring of parents Andy ( David Keith ) and Vicky ( Heather Locklear ) but the product of the drug experiment they took part in during their college days . They took something named " Lot Six " , supposedly a hallucinogen . Years later , young Charlie has developed pyrokinesis , or the ability to start fires using the mind , which she has to put to good use as , now , dastardly government agents are relentlessly pursuing her and her dad so that her talents can be exploited . This is another of those cases for myself where I'm unable to judge this as an adaptation , not having read the novel . As cinematic entertainment , it's certainly watchable enough . It's a pretty interesting story , even if as it plays out it doesn't deliver any real surprises . It moves forward at a fairly steady pace ; flashback scenes are kept rather concise and the exposition is likewise never laid on too thick . Andy's own special power of being able to mentally direct other people into doing what he needs them to do leads to some good scenes ; for one example ; he tells two agents / thugs " You're blind . " and they promptly lose their eyesight . Director Mark L . Lester leaped to the majors here after creating such great cult flicks as " Truck Stop Women " , " Bobbie Jo and the Outlaw " , and " Class of 1984 " , and " Firestarter " is certainly very competently made . It goes without saying that the stunts and special effects are highlights . The film is enjoyably manipulative enough so that we can get our blood-lust up and enjoy it when everything's been steered towards the over-the-top inferno of a climax . I don't really believe that the major acting talent is wasted all that much . Barrymore ( who , after playing in this , was cast in the following year's " Cat's Eye " by producer Dino De Laurentiis , who wanted to develop a vehicle for her specifically ) was then still learning to act rather than just be cute , and even if she hadn't yet honed her craft , she gives it a good effort . Keith is very sincere as devoted dad Andy , with Martin Sheen slickly smarmy as a variation on the villain he played in the previous year's " The Dead Zone " . Old pros Art Carney and especially George C . Scott do well ; Scott's is definitely the most intriguing and well played role in the picture . He and Barrymore do get a good chemistry going . Freddie Jones is amusing in his screen time as blustery scientist Dr . Wanless , while Moses Gunn and Louise Fletcher don't get too much to do . Also appearing are Antonio Fargas as a cabbie and Drew Snyder as Jamieson , one of the chief agents involved in the pursuit . Fairly exciting and involving , " Firestarter " isn't one of the top-flight King-based films , but it isn't a bad one either . Followed by a made-for-TV sequel in
Somewhat interesting sci-fi fare .	In a typically desolate vision of Earths ' future , there are intimidating winds that now dominate the planet - known as the " slipstream " . Affable , hard-luck dreamer Matt ( Bill Paxton , highly animated as always ) runs into thuggish cop Tasker ( Mark Hamill , clearly relishing the opportunity to be the baddie after being known mainly for playing Luke Skywalker ) . Matt learns that Taskers ' prisoner Byron ( the late , talented Bob Peck , giving the best performance in the movie ) has a hefty price tag attached to him , so snatches Byron away from Tasker and heads right into the slipstream in his little aircraft . This little movie clearly aspires to be something more than a standard sci-fi adventure . It doesn't offer us that many action scenes , or really try to dazzle us all that much . It's more of a story of the journeys , personal as well as physical , that our two main characters , Matt and Byron , are going on . Late in the game , when one would think that a movie of this type would ordinarily be building in intensity , it starts piling on social commentary with two different depictions - essentially , haves ( who are hording works of art ) and have nots ( who turn out to be flakes who worship the winds , or something to that effect ) who each live in seclusion , with the haves of course being able to live in relative comfort . This leads to a rather perfunctory and unmemorable finish . All of this makes for a very unusual and intriguing , if not entirely satisfying , experience . The movie boasts an interesting pedigree : it marked Hamills ' return to feature films ( " Return of the Jedi " had been released six years prior to this ) with Steven Lisberger of " Tron " fame as the director , and Gary Kurtz , producer of " Star Wars " episodes IV and V as the producer here . Elmer Bernstein contributes a soaring , majestic score and the locations are quite breathtaking . The sets have an impressively run-down look to them . One sequence where Byron needs to be rescued plays out as a great set piece ; with the forceful winds and the low light , it truly looks like hell on Earth . Hamill actually does a pretty good job portraying a jaded tough guy type . ( At least , with the peroxided hair and the full mustache and beard , he's certainly got a different look going on here ) . The striking Kitty Aldridge has got a lot of spunk as his equally tough female partner , and such folks as Robbie Coltrane , Roshan Seth , and Ricco Ross have small roles , with two Oscar-winning guest stars in very brief turns : Ben Kingsley and F . Murray Abraham . Peck really emerges as the star of this show , though ; as I've already said , he's obviously quite talented , and it's a shame we couldn't have gotten to see him in more films ( though anyone watching is bound to recognize him as the character Muldoon in " Jurassic Park " ) . An offbeat , reasonably entertaining movie with decent enough production values , " Slipstream " is worth catching for curious viewers .
Not as bad as its MST3K treatment might lead you to believe .	Dr . Cal Meacham ( Rex Reason ) is recruited , along with other assorted Earth scientists , to work on a project put together by a mysterious and odd-looking man named Exeter ( Jeff Morrow ) . It turns out that these scientists are really being forced to help an alien race save their war-ravaged planet . While some of it inevitably looks dated , this sci-fi classic gets high marks from me for certainly being an incredible looking film . Filmed in color , the sets and special effects ( which , apparently were years in the making ) are very impressive for their day and age . As cheesy as some viewers may find it , it's not as silly a film as you might think given its lampooning in " Mystery Science Theater 3000 : The Movie . " ( Of course , once you see the mutant ( accent on the second syllable in this case ) you'll never forget this lovably and memorably goofy looking creature . ) " This Island Earth " gets off to an awfully slow start , and like other films from the era , it's got a very talky script , but I have to give it credit for being a thoughtful and intelligent piece of work . It also has a likable performance from Morrow at the forefront , although Reason and Faith Domergue as the female lead are rather stiff , especially Reason . Overall , I like it , not as much as other classic films from the era like " The Thing From Another World " and " The War of the Worlds " , but it's worthy of some respect . Two cast members from " The Thing " , Douglas Spencer and Robert Nichols , are both in this film as well , for those interested in a little bit of trivia , and it's cool to see the future Professor of ' Gilligan's Island ' , Russell Johnson , in an early role as a fellow scientist .
A fun collection of horror stars and macabre stories .	From the mind of Robert Bloch , of " Psycho " fame , come four tales of twisty terror in this Amicus anthology film , which , while not quite as much fun , or scary , as I would have liked , still provides for some decent genre entertainment . It's linked by the wrap-around story of a highly skeptical Scotland Yard detective ( John Bennett ) who is investigating the disappearance of a prominent actor ; he's advised that this case is linked to a few others by the house in which they all took place , and our film is off and running . " Method for Murder " has author Charles Hillyer ( always delightful Denholm Elliott ) haunted by his latest fictional creation , who has seemingly come to life . This sequence has some good surreal and fairly suspenseful moments , and is capped by a reasonably amusing revelation and denouement . " Waxworks " stars horror icon Peter Cushing as retired stockbroker Philip Grayson , who , along with old friend Neville Rogers ( Joss Ackland ) becomes obsessed with the image of a beautiful woman found in a macabre wax museum . Most effective in this episode is the dream sequence , although it's great as always to watch Cushing . The final images presented to us in this story are pretty shocking . " Sweets to the Sweet " features another well-loved horror star , Christopher Lee , as John Reid , who doesn't treat adorable moppet child Jane ( Chloe Franks ) with too much kindness , and it's up to new companion / tutor Ann Norton ( Nyree Dawn Porter ) to find out why . The mystery of this particular episode is handled excellently ; the film-makers wisely don't tip their hand so it comes as more of a genuine shock as we get the full truth of this unhappy family . The " dying " moments are particularly horrific . " The Cloak " has the most outright comedy of the four ; Jon Pertwee , one of many actors to have played the role of Dr . Who over the years , is a lot of fun as a vain , temperamental horror movie star ( in fact , he's the highlight of this story ) who , infuriated with the lack of quality in his latest low-budget film , goes out and buys his own cloak . Said cloak has strange powers , which I dare not reveal here . Sexy Ingrid Pitt is a welcome presence as Pertwees ' companion ; one wonderful example of the humor here is a knowing jab taken at none other than Christopher Lee ! The wrap-up story then concludes in a predictable but still effective way as Detective Inspector Holloway learns that he should have taken all of the warnings given him more seriously . Underscored by Michael Dress's unusual , striking , and eerie score , " The House That Dripped Blood " is an entertaining mix of stories ; while I don't enjoy it quite as much as , say , " Tales from the Crypt " , it's still good fun . Capably directed by Peter Duffell , it moves slowly but surely towards each of its chilling conclusions , and is certainly a good film of its type .
" How does it feel to be hunted ? " " You tell me ! "	The first American film to utilize the skills of Hong Kong action specialist John Woo , " Hard Target " is another variation on the theme of " The Most Dangerous Game " , in which humans decide to hunt and kill other humans for sport . The victims this time are combat veterans who are now homeless and thus easy prey for bad guy / entrepreneur Emil Fouchon ( Lance Henriksen ) . Jean-Claude Van Damme plays Chance Boudreaux ( " How'd you get that name ? " " My mamma took one . " ) , a sailor who conveniently has the abilities to take on the villains in a major way . In the hands of a lesser director , this probably would have ended up a lot more routine . Woo uses techniques such as slow motion ( including close-ups of arrows ) and having Henriksen throw a fit - while his outfit happens to be on fire - to good effect . Van Damme performs no better or worse here than he usually does , although this time he's surrounded by such familiar faces as Arnold Vosloo , six years before playing " The Mummy " , as Henriksen's thug and sidekick , actress and director Kasi Lemmons , and the great Wilford Brimley , stealing the show as Van Damme's moonshiner uncle late in the picture . Good action set pieces include the whole chase sequence and the final confrontation in the warehouse full of old Mardi Gras floats , involving lots of gunfire and pyrotechnics . Pretty good action fare , which should provide adequate entertainment for fans of the genre . Screenwriter Chuck Pfarrer , a former Navy SEAL himself , plays the first on-screen victim . Also , look for cameos by Ted Raimi ( whose director brother Sam was one of the executive producers ) and longtime Arnold Schwarzenegger associate Sven-Ole Thorsen .
Entertaining horror junk .	An adaptation of a " portion " of the H . G . Wells novel , giant-thing-on-a-rampage specialist Bert I . Gordon gives us this nature-strikes-back movie about a mysterious substance that causes massive growth in worms , chickens , wasps , and especially rats . Football hero Morgan ( the hilariously cast Marjoe Gortner ) rallies a small group of might-be dinners on a remote island where the animals are running loose . The origin of the strange stuff is never explained , except to say that it's essentially nature rebelling , in response to the rape of the environment . Yes , Gordon gets topical in the same way that he did in his equally laughable thriller " Empire of the Ants " . The result is a movie that is nothing but pure schlock . Yet it's enjoyable on that level . It produces some good chuckles - that chicken attack at the beginning , in particular , struck me as hilarious . However , the special effects aren't always so bad . Sometimes , they actually work . I do have to say , in any event , that the standard disclaimer common to most films that none of the animals were harmed would be a little hard to believe here . The cast perform with admirably straight faces . The lovely and appealing Pamela Franklin and Belinda Balaski co-star ( Balaskis ' character is actually independent enough to not want to marry the father of her child , allowing for some enlightened sexual politics that one would never expect to find in a schlock film ) . John McLiam , Jon Cypher , and screen legend Ida Lupino are also along for the ride . It's silly stuff , but it has an endearing sincerity to it , and it offers nary a dull moment . It's quite an amusing guilty pleasure , overall .
Routine 1980's era buddy-cop movie enlivened by good cast .	The Governator plays Captain Ivan Danko , a humorless and utterly stiff Russian cop who tracks ultra-sleazy / nasty Georgian drug dealer Viktor Rosta ( Ed O'Ross ) to Chicago , where local detective Art Ridzik ( James Belushi ) , a crass , wisecracking jerk is stuck with the job of playing babysitter to Danko while he attempts to escort Rosta back to Russia . There are enough elements here that are too familiar to make the film itself more than ordinary . There's the fish-out-of-water concept , the mismatched-partners concept , the culture clash concept , and so on . It's true that the two protagonists are not terribly likable , but at least they do manage to get some laughs , and Schwarzenegger and Belushi do have an adequate amount of odd-couple chemistry . It's all entertaining enough ; director Walter Hill has been an action expert for about three decades now and at least he creates some competently staged fights and chase scenes . The supporting cast includes Peter Boyle , Belushi's gruff boss who isn't quite the stereotypical angry , yelling boss common to action films . Larry Fishburne is good as a co-worker of Belushi's who dislikes him intensely . Gina Gershon has one of her earliest roles as the hapless dance instructor who gets in over her head by agreeing to marry Rosta . Other familiar faces include some Walter Hill regulars ( like Brion James and Peter Jason ) , as well as Brent Jennings ( great in a brief cameo as a drug kingpin determined to strike back at white men by getting them all hooked on drugs ) , Pruitt Taylor Vince , Kurt Fuller , etc . This film does have the distinction of having scenes that were actually filmed on location in Russia , which is a little bit of a bonus . Mostly , I felt it was rather standard action fare , despite the assets it did have . One lasting impact was the fact that O'Ross's performance as the villain would often get him typecast as Russian characters from that point on .
Thus concludes the threesome of " Wolf " movies of 1981 .	In addition to " The Howling " and " An American Werewolf in London " , this picture came out , based on the novel by Whitley Streiber . Surly NYC police detective Dewey Wilson ( Albert Finney ) investigates savage murders that look like animal attacks , teaming with his coroner friend Whittington ( Gregory Hines ) and terrorism expert Rebecca Neff ( Diane Venora ) . A horror movie with a social and cultural conscience , this intelligent movie is well crafted and doesn't go for cheap thrills . Although the deaths are in fact gory , very little of the gore is actually shown on camera . Venora and Hines were just fine , although Finney seems half asleep and mutters a lot of his dialog . I know he's supposed to be ordinarily a fine actor , but this film could have benefited more from a more dynamic lead . There's a number of familiar faces in the cast , including Reginald VelJohnson of " Die Hard " 1 & 2 and ' Family Matters ' . Another thing I must say is that Edward James Olmos , cast as a Native American , at least seems like a better choice for his role than Armand Assante was for a similar role in " Prophecy " , which I watched last night . The film's strongest asset is its inventive photography , even if the prospect of showing things from the predators ' perspective is not exactly original . Also , one good move is to not give the audience a good look at the beasts until late in the film . How odd that this film and the 1970 documentary " Woodstock " are the only feature-film directorial credits for Michael Wadleigh to date . The recently deceased , legendary comic Alan King ( R . I . P . Mr . King ) was the executive producer .
Good for a night's viewing .	" Shock Waves " is a decent enough B-level horror thriller from the 1970's , marking the film-making debut of Ken Wiederhorn ( " Eyes of a Stranger " , " Return of the Living Dead Part II " ) . Two couples go on a boating vacation , and along with the boat's crew , end up stranded on a remote island where they are preyed upon by aquatic zombies , which were artificially created by island resident Peter Cushing , a former Nazi commander , to be a resilient and relentless breed of super-soldier . Although I never found it to be terribly scary or suspenseful , this certainly amounts to a good effort . It's good enough for its budget ; Cushing is always worth watching , although he ultimately doesn't get a lot of screen time here . Another screen legend , John Carradine , is a welcome , grandiose presence here , but he , too , does not stay in the picture very long . The actors cast as the victims just do what they have to do ; the appealing Brooke Adams has her first big screen role , and former ' Flipper ' star Luke Halpin plays the heroic male lead . The character of Norman ( played by Jack Davidson ) is established as a grumpy , unlikable , constantly complaining Jerk with a capital J so quickly that I immediately grew impatient to see him knocked off . For people who watch horror films for the violence and gore , be warned , this wouldn't really be your cup of tea . Although it is established that these zombies can kill with their bare hands , the dead bodies don't look very bad in the end result . The impressive makeup on the zombies is by Alan Ormsby , who was , for a time , quite busy in genre films , either writing , producing , directing , or doing makeup , with other films like " Children Shouldn't Play with Dead Things " , " Deathdream " , " Deranged " and " Cat People " ( 1982 ) to his credit . If there is one good thing about this film that will stick with me , it's the repeated sight of the Death Corps rising from the water in search of their prey . This is an image that pays off . The scene where the mysterious shipwreck suddenly appears was another good moment . The reason why this does work is because it does have a subtly sinister , dream-like quality . It doesn't go the traditional horror route - as others here have said , one usually expects a lot more gut-munching in a story about zombies - and does work best if you watch it around two in the morning , when a picture like this would be more likely to be shown on TV . Anyway , for what flaws it has ( gaps in the narrative would be one example ; in one instance , the characters refer to an incident that is absent from the film ) , " Shock Waves " is perfectly acceptable and entertaining minor genre fare , made just a little better by the presence of old pros Cushing and Carradine . F . Y . I . If you're familiar with the incredibly prolific schlock expert , Fred Olen Ray , please note that he was the still photographer for this picture .
Pretty funny . . .	In this comedic sequel to the 1985 film " The Return of the Living Dead " , curiosity kills the cat : some kids find a cannister of zombie gas ( also containing a zombie corpse , naturally ) and the gas leaks everywhere and re-animates hundreds of dead bodies , leading to the expected rampage . This movie never pretends to take itself very seriously . It's very much a horror comedy with the accent on the comedy . Outlandish situations abound - a severed hand runs amok inside a crowded car , a zombie that has been blasted in half " lives " on to pursue the heroes , and a zombie trying to emerge from its grave constantly gets its head and hands stepped on by other zombies . It's gruesome , of course , but not in any overbearing way . The music is at times pretty ineffective , and some of the performances broad and cartoon-like . James Karen and Thom Mathews return from the first movie ( in different roles ) and once again they go through the same tortuous process , slowly suffering the effects of the zombie gas and wailing uncontrollably . The makeup effects by Kenny Myers are pretty good ( he worked on the first movie ) . Two scenes I liked involve insufferably unsympathetic victim Brenda ( Suzanne Snyder ) - she punches one zombie in the face and its face implodes , then later she manages to rip off the lower jaw of another zombie . Overall , I enjoy " Return of the Living Dead Part II " . It's certainly not as well-crafted or as sharp as the first movie . In fact , to some people this may be just a more-of-the-same type of sequel . I like it because it's very lively , tongue-in-cheek , and reasonably well-paced , with good zombie carnage . It's not as good as the first film , but it's still fun . In addition to the scene-stealing work of Karen and Matthews , veteran character actor Phil Bruns ( the original Morty Seinfeld ) has some good lines and funny moments as the off-the-wall , drink-loving Doc Mandel . Amusingly enough , the " Tar Man " ( Allan Trautman ) makes an encore appearance - too bad he's barely in the film . Also , look for Mitch Pileggi in the small role of " Sarge " .
More to it than meets the eye . . .	A group of ten complete strangers are all brought by circumstance ( or is it something more ? . . . ) to a rundown desert motel in the middle of nowhere . Then their number starts being reduced as someone is running around killing them one by one . Unfairly dissed as being a sick , nonsensical slasher movie with a big-name cast , this is not overly impressive but it does offer decent new twists on what would be a standard slasher movie formula . This is not as simple as some might have you believe . In fact , it's more complex . The big-name cast , however under-utilized they may be , gives it extra value . There is some unimpressive dialogue but overall I liked the picture .
CRIKEY !	The Crocodile Hunter ( Steve Irwin ) and his wife ( Terri Irwin ) work to relocate an angry croc after it has incurred the wrath of a trigger-happy rancher ( Magda Szubanski ) ; what they don't know is that the croc has swallowed a part of a spy satellite that fell to Earth . Two rival teams of CIA agents are out to recover the device , and Steve and Terri mistake them for poachers . At times , fun and enjoyable ; reminiscent of the TV series ; Irwin's enthusiasm is infectious if a little TOO much at times . His dialogue was all improvised as he talks directly to the audience , educating them non-stop about the various , sometimes dangerous , creatures that he interacts with . However , the " plot " about the CIA and their precious little spy device is REALLY weak - just the weakest thing imaginable to have been contrived to create a feature film vehicle for Steve-O . ( Then again , it's not supposed to be Shakespeare , right ? ) Virtually all the segments NOT featuring Steve and Terri fall flat , with supporting performances that are less than inspired , to put it charitably . If you're already a fan of the Irwins , I would advise you to give it a try . One of the funniest things about it is seeing veteran actor Timothy Bottoms near the film's end in an uncredited cameo as President Bush . He actually doesn't do too bad a job !
It's AH-NULD VS . SATAN in the match of the century .	On the eve of the millennium , Satan arrives in NYC , takes over the body of an unidentified New Yorker ( Gabriel Byrne ) and sets out to find the young woman ( Robin Tunney ) who's destined to be the poor sap whom he must impregnate in order to bring about the destruction of Earth . However , AH-NULD is in his way , as miserable , alcoholic ex-cop Jericho Cane , who stopped ' believing ' when his family was murdered by crooked cops . I guess this is what you get when you want to mate a contemporary religious horror thriller with a typical Schwarzenegger action spectacle . This movie is quite loud , over-the-top , silly , and ridiculous - I don't think the film-makers really took themselves seriously - but I did find it to be entertaining . It certainly does have a lot of energy , and good performances by AH-NULD ( believe it or not ! ) , Byrne , Tunney , CCH Pounder ( a criminally underused actress , in my opinion ) and Rod Steiger , playing a priest 20 years after he played one in " The Amityville Horror " . Packed with flamboyant special effects , this movie is obviously not out to scare anyone but to provide them with a goofy sort of diversion . Highlight is the battle in the subway system . I'll admit that I do like it ; it's a guilty pleasure , to be sure .
A decent little thriller with a fine performance by Victor Buono .	Inspired by the real-life Boston Strangler slayings , this film stars the late , great character star Victor Buono as a lab technician named Leo Kroll . Krolls ' life is dominated by his nagging , bedridden mother ( Ellen Corby of ' The Waltons ' fame ) ; he symbolically strikes out against her by strangling assorted female victims . For all of this , Leo maintains a smooth , even pompous , facade that he presents to the world , although his self-control declines rapidly after being denied the love of a girl on whom he's genuinely sweet . " The Strangler " is a fine little thriller - not really distinguished in any way , but very watchable , thanks in no small part to Buono , who delivers a great star performance . He and Corby portray a mother-son relationship very similar to that of Norman and Norma Bates , with her often warning her son about the dangers of the female sex . No wonder he'd grow up to be the kind of person that he did . The fact that he derives obvious ( if not overstated ) sexual gratification from his murders ( and the fact that victims are scantily clad while being strangled ) gives these proceedings a decidedly kinky edge . It's shot in a very matter-of-fact way , and plays that way too . There are no frills ( although the opening shot of the film , with an image of the first on-screen victim superimposed over Buonos ' pupil , is a nice touch ) , and no extraneous subplots to slow down the action . David " the Marlboro Man " McLean really looks the part of a world-weary detective as he fumes over the inability to catch the psycho , with Davey Davison appealing as Krolls ' unfortunate object of desire . James B . Sikking of ' Hill Street Blues ' fame , looking much younger but still instantly recognizable , appears as a sketch artist . By having a sexually frustrated predator as the focus of a film , " The Strangler " can make a viewer feel different things for this character at various times ; we're not with him every step of the way , but we are with him long enough to develop some level of perverse fascination . Will he find happiness ? Or will he be caught ? Buono does a fine job at balancing different aspects of a deviant personality and shows how these kinds of people can appear " normal " to the outside world . While I wouldn't quite consider it a forgotten classic , it's a pretty good and entertaining B-grade thriller .
Worth watching for the cast alone .	NYC model Alison Parker ( Cristina Raines ) rents a room in an old brownstone where she meets a few bizarre neighbors and experiences some creepy hallucinations . As lawyer boyfriend Michael Lerman ( Chris Sarandon ) goes about making inquiries on her behalf , she struggles to maintain her sanity ( not to mention her will to live ) as her experiences take a toll on her physical , mental , and emotional health . I don't want to spoil the better moments in this psychological horror film for those unfamiliar with it . The story is interesting and entertaining , but the film doesn't really offer much in terms of real scares . Or , for that matter , any atmosphere . It is sort of quietly sinister , but it's not like the traditional horror film . It's more of a story about a troubled woman's attempts to deal with the increasing unreality in her life . On that level , it works , but it's not quite powerful enough . What " The Sentinel " does offer are some eye-catching set pieces ( in particular , the fascinating , fabulously creepy climax , and there's a scene with Beverly D'Angelo that must be seen to be believed ) . There's also some gore to be seen , but not very much . An ominous music score by Gil Melle adds to the menace . No review of this film would be complete without an appraisal for the film-makers in gathering such excellent actors for its ensemble cast . Some of them don't get to do too much , but to see all of them together is impressive . Eli Wallach and Burgess Meredith make the biggest impressions as , respectively , a hard-nosed detective and a solicitous neighbor . Other legendary names include Jose Ferrer , Arthur Kennedy , and Ava Gardner . Future stars like D'Angelo , Christopher Walken , Tom Berenger , Jeff Goldblum make brief appearances , and other familiar faces include Jerry Orbach , Sylvia Miles , William Hickey , and Martin Balsam . Whoever was the casting director for this film deserves some sort of prize . Written for the screen by director Michael Winner , probably best known for the " Death Wish " series that he did with Charles Bronson , from the novel by Jeffrey Konvitz . I wouldn't consider this a truly great horror thriller but it has its moments and is reasonably entertaining .
When serial killers go on-line .	Extremely far-fetched , outrageous but somewhat fun escapism with thoroughly vile serial killer Karl Hochman ( Ted Marcoux ) sucked into a computer mainframe when his body is being scanned at a hospital during a thunderstorm . In his new form he proceeds to terrorize Terry Munroe ( Karen Allen ) , the single mother whom he never got the chance to slaughter when he was still alive . Allen is appealing as always , although her character's apparent cluelessness as to the serial killer's existence is hard to swallow . Film also gives prominent character player Chris Mulkey , as a former outlaw hacker attempting to start a legitimate career , a rare shot at a heroic role . Look also for Richard Schiff , whose brother Paul produced the picture . All in all , this techno-thriller delivers some good excitement and tension , and is made competently enough . One thing it delivers in very large doses is an assortment of computer graphics and other visual / makeup effects . It's pretty entertaining , albeit in a be - prepared - to - suspend - your - disbelief kind of way . It moves well and is wrapped up fairly quickly . ( One touch that is kind of welcome is an actual LACK of sexual chemistry between Allen and Mulkey . It would have slowed the film down if the film-makers had tried to develop a potential relationship between the two , so at least there's no digression from the main story . )
TWAS BEAUTY KILLED THE BEAST . . . AGAIN .	Remake of classic 1933 monster movie , in which a monstrous ape living on a remote island falls in love with a girl - and goes on a rampage when brought overseas to NYC . Unlike others who have openly condemned this movie , I think this version can stand on its own : it's reasonably entertaining although I would have to concede that it's definitely not as good - certainly not as memorable - as the first film . Special effects are variable ; in some scenes it's too apparent they ARE special effects ( special effects guru Rick Baker is wearing a Kong suit for some scenes ) . Biggest problem from my perspective is overlength ; film is over a half hour longer than the original ; it takes the film too long to get going . Characters are annoying as well ( check out how grubby Jeff Bridges looks ) , especially the sleazy moron played by Charles Grodin , who tries exploiting Kong for profit ( what a bad move ) . Jessica Lange ( in her feature film debut ) is certainly a beauty but cannot rival Fay Wray as a scream queen ( somehow Lange's character - while she is a wide-eyed innocent like Wray's was - isn't quite as appealing ) . I don't know how some people will feel about this in the post era , but in this version it's not the Empire State Building that Kong climbs - it's the World Trade Centre twin towers . All in all , I liked it . I think it could have been worse . ( At least , I enjoyed seeing good actors like Ed Lauter , Rene Auberjonois , Julius Harris , and John Randolph in the supporting roles . )
It can send a viewer out with a smile on their face !	In this amiable , outrageous 1980's vehicle , star Dan Aykroyd plays Clifford Skridlow , a meek and mild type college professor who is roped into the prostitution business by a cowardly pimp ( Howard Hesseman ) who has contrived a new partner that Skridlow is ultimately obliged to bring to life - the titular character , whom in full garb looks like a punk version of Elton John at his most flamboyant . Hard to miss with this upbeat , infectiously goofy comedy , a true product of its decade which gets off to a true time-warp start with a catchy title-tune ditty by Devo . Aykroyd is well supported by a fabulous cast including his four gorgeous high-class prostitutes ( Donna Dixon - the soon-to-be Mrs . Aykroyd , Fran Drescher , Lynn Whitfield , Lydia Lei ) , T . K . Carter ( " The Thing " , " Runaway Train " ) who is lots of fun as his sort-of sidekick , Kate Murtagh ( the lady on the cover of the Supertramp album " Breakfast in America " ) in a humorously nasty crime kingpin role that would be ordinarily be played by a male , Nan Martin ( Mrs . Louder from ' The Drew Carey Show ' ) in a wonderful turn as a stereotypically dotty mother , and others . The dance sequence , supplemented by a musical performance by James Brown , has got to be the major highlight of the film for me ; it's just lots of fun to watch . Besides this sequence , other silly / amusing comic highlights include Aykroyd's extended introduction to the night life , his nightmare sequence , and his impersonation of a loud , obnoxious rube lawyer . The movie on the whole is certainly a great showcase for its star . You should definitely catch this if you haven't seen it yet . I wholeheartedly recommend it . It's unfortunate that this was a box office bomb back in its day . . . just too unfortunate . But hey , nothing can stop " The Doctor ! "
My first dose of Ruggero Deodato .	Best known for the 1980 shocker " Cannibal Holocaust " , Deodato here directs a reasonably invigorating action / adventure filmed on location in the jungles of Venezuela . Reporter Fran ( the stunning Lisa Blount , whom I really wish had become a bigger star ) and her cameraman Mark ( Leonard Mann ) are covering a drug-related massacre . At the same time , they are approached by their boss Bob ( Richard Bright ) to locate his missing son Tommy ( Willie Aames ) . Both stories take them to Venezuela , where enigmatic Brian Horne ( Richard Lynch ) , an associate of Jim Jones , is a key player in the action . Available in two versions , a " soft " version and an uncut version , which really is the version to see , because with the extremely potent violence , it really ups the ante in terms of a sense of danger . Be prepared for some juicy be-headings , a disembowelment , and one great highlight of a man torn in half by a jungle trap . In addition to the splatter factor , the exotic locale ( very nicely photographed ) the enjoyable array of familiar faces ( distinctively featured Michael Berryman has a great featured role as a stealthy and very vicious assassin , Karen Black has a likable cameo role , and future star Eriq LaSalle has an early career role ) , and the " Apocalypse Now " inspired confrontation with Lynch late in the film add to what might otherwise have been more on the ordinary side . Blount actually looks rather uncomfortable , but does a good job ; Aames is really rather annoying , and fans of Lynch may undoubtedly bemoan the fact that he's barely seen throughout the film . With Claudio Simonettis ' energetic electronic score adding to the fun , this is overall a highly amusing hybrid of horror and action . While the plot won't stand up to any scrutiny , it's still wild enough , gory enough , and technically dazzling enough , to make for a pretty good time .
' Down and Out in New York City '	Tommy Gibbs is a ghetto teenager who resorts to doing errands for The Man . After being humiliated by a brutal , and brutally racist , corrupt cop ( Art Lund ) Tommy vows to rise to the top of the local crime scene himself - and he does so , in as violent a fashion as possible , infiltrating and then annihilating his new associates . Decent " blaxpoitation " entry with a certain ruthlessness , just like its main character , that gives it a certain vitality . This is in-your-face entertainment with a good , amusing lead performance by Fred Williamson as the adult Tommy Gibbs and an especially good supporting performance by Julius W . Harris as Tommy's long-estranged father . The sequel , " Hell Up in Harlem " , followed before the year was out .
Pretty good stuff .	On a British island , scientists diligently work on a cure for cancer . However , their idea - a creation of a new life form - is no cure . These beings - looking a little like land born versions of the Martian spaceships in " War of the Worlds " - devour bones and turn their victims into " jelly " . A dedicated team of doctors - Edward Judd , Peter Cushing , and Eddie Byrne - seek to find out how to destroy them . A fairly interesting and fanciful plot works for this overlooked little horror item . Even the monsters , as low tech as they may be , are creepy in their own way . Director Terence Fisher draws the viewer in with a sharp sense of mystery until the secrets are revealed , and , in appreciable fashion , maintains a steady pace until the final third when he allows the action to speed up . An effective plot detail - the monsters are capable of multiplying on a regular basis - allows for more tension as the imperiled villagers have time working against them . The island setting is another good touch . The movie leads towards a decent climax , in classic " Night of the Living Dead " fashion , involving a siege . The monsters congregate and swarm over the building where the frightened villagers are holed up . An effective sense of panic is created . Cushing is as solid as always , with likewise fine performances from Judd , Byrne , and Niall MacGinnis . " Island of Terror " is an entertaining little horror film that's worth a look .
A decent supplement to 1974s ' " Vampyres " .	The two stars of the 1974 erotic vampire film " Vampyres " , Marianne Morris and Anulka , sit down and share their memories of working on the film in this brief ( under 14 minutes ) featurette on the DVD . The strongest attraction for me was seeing the two lovely ladies in more recent years , and they look as if they've hardly aged at all . They are both still very attractive , especially Anulka . Best of all , they seem quite warm and personable and eager to chat about the film . Both share some amusing anecdotes . The blood was given a peppermint taste to make it palatable , for one thing ( ! ) . Some kind words are saved for the producer ( Brian Smedley-Aston ) and director ( Jose Ramon Larraz ) of the film , who were as different as night and day but proved to work well together as a team . It's also interesting to hear that Anulka was more comfortable with the nudity and Morris was actually more comfortable with the scenes of violence ! This is overall a pleasant and entertaining enough if naturally not overwhelmingly informative featurette although it was worth it just to see the stars as they were a few years back .
I Like It .	This entry in the nature-run-amok subgenre of movie thrillers is about a divorcing couple , Jo and Bill ( Helen Hunt and Bill Paxton ) who can't seem to stop being around each other - especially since they both have a passion for chasing tornadoes and learning everything they can about them . A guilty pleasure , to be sure . This is the kind of movie where plot , characterizations , and scripting take a backseat to the thrill ride aspect of the movie . And this movie does offer a decent amount of fun , especially with those convincing special-effects generated storms . ( Although isn't it kind of predictable that Jo's team of storm chasers is a quirky bunch of characters ? Especially Dusty , played by Philip Seymour Hoffman . I like the actor and his performances , but I just think the Dusty character is fairly annoying . ) I give it .
A highly amusing sexploitation flick .	Three sexual deviants escape from an asylum : no-talent former comedian and impressionist Carl Clooney ( Michael Pataki ) , baseball player turned rapist Dick Peters ( Bob Minor ) , and unhinged homosexual former dress designer Bruce Wilson ( Stephen Stucker ) . After they stop off at the house of farmer Earl ( George " Buck " Flower ) , they head for a nearby girls ' school , indulging themselves to their hearts ' content all the way . This is never at any time remotely serious . Its depravity is comedic through and through , and while it's easy to accuse it of being tasteless and shameless , it's also pretty hard to resist . Our three hooligans don't come off as very threatening , and are in fact pretty ingratiating in their own lascivious way . Character actors Pataki and Minor , and Stucker , whom folks may recognize as Johnny from the " Airplane ! " movies , play these roles to the hilt . We get hearty helpings of prime T & A here ; suffice it to say that the film-makers deliver on the exploitation quotient of their film . There's plenty of sexy young ladies ( and their assets ) on display , including Sharon Kelly , Zoe Grant , and Roberta Pedon . An example of the raunchy highlights is a dirty old man professor hypnotizing a student so he can have his way with her . ( At one point , our sleazy threesome walk in on one of these scenes and Peters goes after the girl , prompting him to say , " I never made it with a chick in a trance before " . ) Overall , I found this engagingly silly , sleazy , and sexy in equal measure . It's a good dose of extremely low-brow non-think entertainment .
Very nice combo of blaxploitation and horror .	" J . D . ' s Revenge " is an Exorcist variation , set in New Orleans , in which a nice guy cab driver and law student ( affable Glynn Turman ) participates in a hypnotism session , which somehow allows the spirit of a deceased gangster , J . D . Walker ( David McKnight , oozing oily menace ) , who desires revenge on those who killed him . It's a reasonably engrossing and interesting picture , worth catching for the performance of Turman , who manages to convey two different personalities . It's also quite a showcase for Louis Gossett , Jr . , as a flamboyant preacher implicated in the plot . I've never seen him quite so lively , and he even cries at the end ! Joan Pringle is quite cute and appealing as the befuddled love interest , and in a small dual role , Alice Jubert is quite alluring . Carl Crudup , James Louis Watkins , and Fred Pinkard co-star ; veteran of blaxploitation and many other films , Bob Minor , also has a small role as an angry husband . Directed quite capably by Arthur Marks , also in the directors ' chair for other blaxploitation favorites like " Detroit 9000 " , " Bucktown " , and " Friday Foster " , this is another worthy addition to his resume , as he keeps the film intriguing and moving along nicely . He also deserves mention for the visual treatment ( a deep red tint ) of the flashbacks . The music is also fun - sometimes ominous , sometimes funky , sometimes even both ! This is an entertaining little film that can be shown along with the " Blacula " films for a heck of a fun evening . Recommended .
Above average Stephen King adaptation .	As something of a Stephen King fan , I'd thought for a while that this was one story that would make a fine movie . When I heard that a film project was finally underway , I was certainly intrigued . After having just seen it , I can say that while not without flaws ( I didn't care too much for the creatures and some of the performances ) , it's a pretty solid and entertaining monster movie . Frequent adapter of Stephen King stories Frank Darabont is in the directors ' seat for this intense and gripping story of a strange white mist enveloping a small town , trapping a large and disparate group of people inside a supermarket . To make matters worse , there are man-eating critters hidden by this mist , and conditions among the group break down as nerves wear thin , exacerbated by the rantings of religious zealot Mrs . Carmody ( Marcia Gay Harden ) . This picture definitely hits the ground running and unfolds at a respectable clip . It delivers good scenes of both suspense and gore , with a bevy of CGI monsters on display . It maintains a grim and solemn tone and strongly emphasizes the human element : it's an all too believable portrait of human beings in a state of panic . A solid , professional cast does good work ; Thomas Jane is the hero , a movie poster artist with a young boy to look out for , and Andre Braugher his too-pragmatic and contemptuous nemesis . Darabont regulars like William Sadler , Jeffrey DeMunn , and Brian Libby are most enjoyable , as are Frances Sternhagen , Alexa Davalos , and Buck Taylor . However , Hardens ' intolerable character tends to steal the spotlight much of the time ; you might be as scared of this person as any of the creatures in the mist . In a departure from the novella , it leads to a memorably bleak and harsh resolution that ends up bitterly ironic as well . It's a good , agreeable creature feature ; watching it in black & white ( Darabonts ' preferred vision ) definitely gives it the appealing feel of a throwback to ' 50's and ' 60's B pictures . As Stephen King-based cinema goes , I wouldn't quite rank it as one of the top adaptations , but it's certainly a sight better than some of them .
Not a bad picture to watch on a slow Wednesday .	Eddie Macon ( John Schneider , in his first film starring role since coming to prominence on ' The Dukes of Hazzard ' ) is an honest-to-God good man who ends up in jail after losing his cool with his sleazy employer . Before the film starts , he's already escaped once , and as the film opens , he escapes again ( you'd think they would have been watching him more closely ) . Knowing full well that he'll be sent back to prison for life if he is caught , he embarks on a desperate race for Mexico and freedom , to be reunited with his beloved wife and child . He is pursued the whole time by a relentless cop , Carl Marzack ( Kirk Douglas ) who stops at nothing to catch him . I was expecting a little more action myself . This prison escape film plays more like a straight drama , with a rather perfunctory car chase saved for the last dozen minutes . It gets pretty sentimental , a little too sentimental , as the soundtrack songs ( sung by Schneider ) will attest . Schneider is sincere and believable , and the supporting cast is full of an incredible lineup of familiar faces , including Tom Noonan , Jay O . Sanders , J . C . Quinn , Dann Florek , J . T . Walsh , John Goodman ( Walsh and Goodman make their film debuts ) , Mark Margolis , and others . However , the standouts are undeniably Douglas , who is animated and energetic and engaging in a multi-dimensional role , and Lee Purcell , very sexy and appealing as a high society type who comes to Eddies ' aid mainly because she wants a little excitement in her life . Some decent sequences - a showdown with a snake , the confrontations with the Potts brothers - help to make it enjoyable . You might not remember it afterward , but you might very well have a smile on your face while watching it . It's decent entertainment of its kind .
I never get . . . transfusions .	All-Monster congregation in the final film in Universal's renowned cycle of classic horror stories . Count Dracula ( an intense , dapper John Carradine ) , calling himself Baron Latos , comes to Dr . Edelmann ( Onslow Stevens ) asking to be cured of his affliction . Naturally , this is just a ruse . Then , coincidentally , Larry Talbot ( Lon Chaney ) , a . k . a . " The Wolf Man " , shows up and of course he really wants to be cured . As others have noted , the monsters don't get equal screen time . The Frankenstein Monster ( Glenn Strange ) gets thrown in at the end just for the purpose of including all of the Universal Monsters . Stock footage and library music are re-used here as well . The film spends maybe a little too much time with the Dracula part of the story , although Carradine gives an impressive , non-hammy performance in the role of the Count . The film is mainly a showcase for Stevens , who goes through a tragic character arc of his own , and does an excellent job . The women are gorgeous , and I have to say that I loved Jane Adams as the luminous nurse - who happens to be hunchbacked . Of course , it wouldn't be complete without the inclusion of angry villagers . Competently , professionally made chiller is , just for my tastes , not really scary at all , but entertaining regardless . It's a respectable series entry overall .
Amiable 1980's sex-oriented nonsense .	This " plot " , such as it is , is very familiar to many of us by now : four teenage boys can take being virgins no longer and make a pact to help each other score before their summer is over . And there you go . But the appeal lies in a lowbrow farce that does stay true to itself and doesn't aspire to be anything more than a raunchy good time . Granted , I didn't think it was terribly funny , but it's too upbeat and sunny to resist . The many filler sequences of various performers ( including breakdancers - now how's that for dating this film ? ) do admittedly slow things down a bit , but they're still amusing to watch . Our desperate virgins are played by a bunch of guys who are at least likable enough - Michael Zorek ( who also appeared in " Private School " and " The Woman in Red " ) , Adam Silbar , Johnny Timko , and Jeff Fishman . Ever lovable Jill Schoelen is Silbars ' sweet girlfriend who doesn't want to have sex with him because she's afraid that's all he cares about . Knockout Deborah Richter ( " Cyborg " ) and sexy Penthouse Pet & B movie actress Monique Gabrielle have supporting roles , and character actor Virgil Frye ( father of ' Punky Brewster ' star Soleil Moon Frye ) has a funny cameo as a porn shop owner . A viewer certainly can't go wrong with so much female flesh on display . In one inspired bit , the filmmakers parody " Chariots of Fire " on a nude beach with a bevy of beauties running through the sand sans clothes . There are also hilarious uses of the old transitional method of " wipes " , and a relentless onslaught of extremely cheesy 80's pop and rock tunes with titles like " My Teddy Bear " and " Rubbers " . It's an engaging bit of dumb , sexy fun and is enjoyable to watch . It's worth catching for die-hard fans of the genre .
Not as good as the first one , but still good .	Another alien killer comes to planet Earth in 1997 , this time in the urban setting of Los Angeles . In the midst of brutal and savage drug wars between Colombians and Jamaicans , it claims a steady supply of human victims . High-strung and quick-tempered Mike Harrigan ( Danny Glover ) is the human hero this time around . This sequel doesn't seem to care about suspense at all . Instead , it concentrates on being a hardcore action movie with a little science-fiction thrown in . It continuously bombards the viewers with large-scale and violent action and because director Stephen Hopkins is supposedly a big fan of " Aliens " it turns into yet another clone of that great movie at one point . Pretty good as far as action movies go , but abundance of foul language and the presence of Morton Downey Jr . ( playing a stupid and sleazy character , big surprise ) don't help its cause . Schwarzenegger may have passed on the sequel , but it certainly worked out well for Glover , who does a respectable job as an action hero . One of the last few roles , sadly , for Kevin Peter Hall ( reprising his role as the title creature ) , who died of the AIDS virus in 1991 after a faulty blood transfusion .
Tommy Lee Jones steals the show .	Poor Dinah Hunter ( Yvette Mimieux ) : through no fault of her own , she ends up incarcerated while driving from Los Angeles to New York . Her first night , the guard on duty forces himself on her and she accidentally kills him in self-defense . With the assistance of modern outlaw Coley Blake ( Tommy Lee Jones ) , she breaks out of jail and spends the rest of the picture on the lam . To be honest , for a B movie described as a " chase picture " , I was expecting more actual chases throughout , but it's a fine little film just the same . With its gritty and raw feel , but ultimately feminist point of view , it has a fair bit going for it . The unexpectedly poignant interchanges between Dinah and Coley provide the film with a solid anchor ; both Mimieux and Jones deliver superb performances . Jones in particular , in his very first substantial film role , ignites the screen as a weary , cynical , born criminal ( I have to like his line " I was born dead " ) . The two stars are ably supported by Robert Carradine as a seemingly benign hitchhiker who reveals his true colors later , Howard Hesseman as Dinahs ' unfaithful husband , Severn Darden as the local sheriff , and Mary Woronov as a loyal friend of Coleys ' . Nicely directed by Michael Miller ( who remade this for TV just two years later as ' Outside Chance ' ) and written by Donald Stewart , the film itself does have a downbeat , cynical , fatalistic vibe , and really comes to life for a stirring , breathless conclusion . Flavorful music by Loren Newkirk also really hits the spot ; the film does slow down ever so slightly at some points , but successfully maintains a sense of urgency , as the cops are never really far behind . It's a fine example of down South drive-in 1970's fare , thoughtful , interesting , and just plain fun .
Pretty good as the " giant bug " movies of the ' 50's go .	An earthquake in California causes long dormant prehistoric eggs to hatch under the Salton Sea ; the result is large and deadly mollusks that snatch unwary prey . The heroes include Tim Holt as the steadfast Lt . Cmdr . Twillinger and Hans Conried as the no-nonsense Dr . Rogers ; Twillinger also finds time to romance Rogers's secretary Gail MacKenzie ( the very pretty Audrey Dalton ) in the midst of tracking down the nasty creatures . It's a decent enough movie of its type ; its subdued approach might not appeal to some folk , but it still supplies some effective moments . For one thing , one of the creatures gets stabbed in the eye , and two young lovers get killed in a rather chilling sequence . A sense of mystery is established until the film-makers feel the time is right for a reveal . This works out fairly well , as the creatures are genuinely ugly and repellent . The acting is generally solid . Holt is likable as the military man whose stiff and serious demeanor hides a basically warm and good-hearted personality , Conried efficient as the scientist , and Dalton engaging as the romantic interest . Casey Adams , Mimi Gibson , Gordon Jones , Barbara Darrow , and Jody McCrea round out a good cast . The easy-to-follow yet interesting script has touches of humor here and there . It all leads to a well-shot , well-staged finale that's not bad at all . If you're a completist with regards to the " giant bug " film cycle of the ' 50's , this is definitely one to cross off your list .
" Daniel " is a good film by Sidney Lumet .	Politically loaded saga of Daniel Isaacson ( Timothy Hutton ) whose parents ( Mandy Patinkin and Lindsay Crouse ) end up being executed for a supposed theft of state secrets that they were implicated in . Daniel and his emotionally fragile sister ( Amanda Plummer ) deal with this legacy as best they can years later . Film switches between several points in time as we get both the past history and contemporary story . Written by E . L . Doctorow , based on his novel , which was itself inspired by a real-life couple named Julius and Ethel Rosenberg . While it isn't infallible ( for one thing , its subtle , quiet nature makes it a little boring ) , it's also intelligent , deliberately paced ( some people may appreciate this ) , meticulously crafted , and very well acted . It did leave me with some topics to think about , so I could say it's intellectually stimulating , as well . Not excellent but certainly a good film that was worth catching this once . The final half-hour or so is the best part .
Watching it didn't make ME angry . . .	Dave Buznik ( Adam Sandler ) is a personal assistant who is arrested after an incident on an airplane . Ordered by a judge to undergo anger management training , he ends up getting the most unorthodox and wildest instructor in NYC , Dr . Buddy Rydell ( Jack Nicholson ) . Sometimes flat , but mostly funny and entertaining comedy that works reasonably well even if it pretty much revolves around one joke . The cast is the best part , including uncredited cameos by the likes of John C . Reilly , Heather Graham ( looking very ravishing ) and Harry Dean Stanton . Also recommended if you want to see Woody Harrelson in drag . Sandler , instead of doing his usual silly and infantile routine , basically plays it straight while Nicholson genially hams it up . Final film for actress Lynne Thigpen ( who plays the judge ) . It's not a great movie but I thought it was reasonably good .
An entertaining adventure .	Greg Collinson ( Doug McClure ) has devised an experimental diving craft and , along with British scientist Charles Aitken ( Peter Gilmore ) , uses it to explore the depths . They end up in the underwater city of Atlantis , whose citizens intend to have Aitken join them , hoping to exploit his superior intellect . In addition to fighting off assorted monsters , McClure , Aitken , and their associates set off on a daring escape . One could complain about the cheesiness of the whole affair , or the less than stellar special effects , but for me it still adds up to likable , undemanding fantasy escapism . It's quite colorful and interesting . Most importantly , I felt it was reasonably exciting , with decent direction by Kevin Connor and respectable pacing . The monsters may not be that high tech , but I'd still take these kinds of creations over CGI any day . It just adds to the true old-fashioned , Saturday matinée type appeal of the whole thing . Michael Vickers ' rousing score is simply wonderful . McClure is a stolid hero , and the supporting cast is fine . Special guest appearances are made by Cyd Charrisse and Daniel Massey as high-ranking Atlantians . Especially effective is under-rated character veteran Shane Rimmer as Captain Daniels , with Michael Gothard , gorgeous Lea Brodie , Robert Brown , and future ' Cheers ' mailman John Ratzenberger all enjoyable in smaller roles . The kind of picture that we unfortunately just don't see a lot of anymore , " Warlords of Atlantis " is not particularly memorable but is a definite pleasure to watch in any event .
Good enough .	Leopold ( Hugh Jackman ) is a nineteenth century nobleman and inventor who ends up in the twenty-first century , courting the very modernized Kate ( Meg Ryan ) , thanks to the interference of Kate's flaky ex-boyfriend Stuart ( Liev Schreiber ) . The kind of film I could best describe as " cute . " That's it in a nutshell ; there is nothing particularly great about it , but it is likable . A lot of the humor is standard fish-out-of-water humor , but it actually works . Also suitably romantic . Good cast , too . Obviously a good date movie . The only real problem is the writing . Good luck trying to figure the plot twists revealed in the climax . I don't know if even the screenwriters could explain it easily . Then again , you tend to get those problems with movies involving time travel . Also , it's very long for a romantic comedy . I think they could have trimmed it a bit . I gave it .
An agreeable tongue-in-cheek slasher .	Two years after their own twisted take on the Yuletide season with " Don't Open Till Christmas " , producers Steve Minasian and Dick Randall came up with more slasher hijinks with " Slaughter High " . The story has a put-upon loser named Marty ( Simon Scuddamore ) who undergoes a pretty elaborate humiliation masterminded by several classmates . He's disfigured in a subsequent lab accident . Years later , the kids are attending a class reunion and when they start getting bumped off in the expectantly grisly fashion , they're not so stupid that they can't put two and two together . Gorgeous female lead Caroline Munro had previously blessed " Christmas " with a musical cameo appearance , and here she's hilariously cast as an American high school student . She certainly gives this film a little something extra , but it's already pretty enjoyable for what it is : incredibly silly stuff where nothing is ever taken too seriously . Some of the actors definitely get into the spirit of the thing . ( Look for Randall in a hammy cameo as Munro's agent . ) The death scenes serve as real highlights : an acid bath , a drowning by mud , a chopping by lawnmower blades , a dude who drinks a bad brew and literally spills his guts . The run-down , abandoned school is a decent enough setting , there's some nudity provided , and Harry Manfredini provides a music score that sounds awfully familiar at times . It's all comfortably predictable and clichéd , especially the ending . Randall sure knows how to promote his work ; behind him in his scene are posters of films such as " Pieces " ! The suicide of Scuddamore shortly after the film's release certainly gives it a sad and chilling postscript . Overall , it's an agreeable bit of very 80's trash .
Worth seeing for the cast , in any event .	In 1975 , a girl named Cynthia managed to survive a suicide pact engineered by charismatic / creepy cult leader Clayton Harris ( Richard Lynch ) . In 1988 , Cynthia emerges as a young adult ( Jennifer Rubin ) from a coma and is placed under the care of kindly psychiatrist Alex Karmen ( Bruce Abbott ) . Soon enough , all of her fellow group therapy patients are killing themselves in increasingly graphic ways , and Cynthia , who is seeing Harris's charred remains repeatedly , believes that he is the one killing them . " Bad Dreams " is a fairly decent horror film working the psychology of cults and their gurus into its somewhat intriguing plot . It shows how good intentions and ideas can be distorted into something monstrous ( Harris's intention is the ultimate expression of love and unity , hence the name of his cult , " Unity Fields " . ) . It incorporates the use of a MacGuffin in its plot to good effect , and the psychiatry angle adds another layer to the proceedings . Michele Burke supplies great make-up for Lynch as well as some pretty nasty splatter . The highlight is a double suicide involving voluntarily jumping into a turbine ( when blood starts showering down on Cynthia , it's a very " Carrie " - esque moment ) . Good visual imagery helps - scene transitions and color schemes are particularly noteworthy . The offbeat soundtrack includes classics such as " Time Has Come Today " , a truly warped punk rendition of " My Way " , and the Guns ' n ' Roses hit " Sweet Child O ' Mine " , in its first inclusion in a motion picture . The film delivers some fine " Boo ! " moments , and is overall fairly creepy and uneasy , thanks in no small part to the Harris character and Lynch's performance . One can see how some people would fall under the spell of a person like that . Rubin is quite gorgeous and appealing , and Abbott does well as the well-meaning shrink . Harris Yulin , Susan Ruttan , Susan Barnes , Sy Richardson , Louis Giambalvo , Damita Jo Freeman , and E . G . Daily do fine supporting work . Ruttan in particular offers a notable contrast to the role of Roxanne on ' L . A . Law . ' Dean Cameron supplies much of the humor , improvising his best lines ( you have to listen closely to catch one of them ) . And Charles Fleischer , voice of Roger Rabbit , has an amusing cameo . One of the best sequences has Abbott playing out a revenge fantasy against Yulin . " Bad Dreams " is a reasonably entertaining 80's horror flick that at least wraps itself up in record time , running a scant 85 minutes .
Reasonably enjoyable .	Not bad Nazisploitation trash about experiments intended to create a superior race of Nazi soldiers . Young enemy women are brought in to copulate with the studliest young members of the Nazi ranks . It delivers some foul and repellent highlights , with a dedicated cast sinking their teeth into their depraved roles . It's got some graphic gore , and the eye candy quotient is satisfactory , with a respectable amount of nudity as well as some erotic sex scenes . Just to give you some examples of its cruder moments , the particularly virile Helmut ( Mircha Carven ) takes part in a testicle transplant ( against his knowledge ) when an impotent Colonel ( Giorgio Cerioni ) becomes envious . ( It turns out that the Colonel's own manhood was bitten off some time ago . ) One of the lovely young ladies is hung upside down and left to bleed to death , while another is left inside a tank of water ; the temperature is raised and she gets boiled , then it's lowered until she gets frozen solid . Now , I'll admit I found this movie rather slowly paced and talky so it requires some patience on the part of the viewer until it gets to the good stuff . In any event , it ends on a very downbeat final note and has some amusing performances ( particularly by Patrizia Melega as the dedicated Dr . Renke and Attilio Dottesio as the repentant Dr . Steiner ) , not to mention some good laughs . It's got its sillier moments , to be sure , and I can believe that it's not the best of its genre . But it does provide for some amusement for fans of such tasteless junk .
Superbad !	Originally conceived as a sequel to his previous hit " Coffy " , writer - director Jack Hill concocted this follow-up vehicle for Pam Grier , the undisputed queen of the unfairly dubbed " blaxploitation " genre . Grier plays the title character , a saucy and tough woman with an unspecified occupation who is dealing with two concurrent situations in her life : trying to keep her irresponsible brother Link ( fellow 1970's icon Antonio Fargas ) on the straight and narrow , and waiting for her lover Dalton Ford ( Terry Carter ) , a former narc , to be released from the hospital with a new look . Unfortunately , Link's self-serving nature gets the better of him , and he rats Dalton ( who has been re-christened Michael Anderson ) out to the mobsters to whom Link owes a substantial amount of money . After Dalton is gunned down and perishes inside Foxy's own house , she swears revenge . She infiltrates the crime organization ( posing as an aspiring call girl ) and , after being found out and humiliated & tortured , turns the tables on her captors and sets out to deal the final blow to the mob . A fun , hip addition to the " blaxploitation " genre with some hilarious fashions of the time . Grier is at the top of her game , and supported by a couple of creditable co-stars . Kathryn Loder , who co-starred with Grier in the women-in-prison exploitation classic " The Big Doll House " , is the dragon-lady villainess . Sadly , she passed away just a few years later ; this turned out to be her final of only three feature film appearances . Soap and TV western veteran Peter Brown plays her boy toy and the other main villain , and recipient of the film's most outrageous and gruesome act of vengeance . Other familiar faces include the always welcome Sid Haig , showing up late in the film as a horny airplane pilot / drug courier , and the hefty and bald-headed film heavy H . B . Haggerty as a thug . Interesting touches by Hill include the casting of Harry Holcombe , often cast as a judge in TV shows and films , as a lustful and corrupt judge who gets a hilarious comeuppance . Right after this scene , while he expects the audience to still be laughing , he has the laugh " stick in the throat " by having Foxy's new associate Claudia ( Juanita Brown ) have a major emotional breakdown . There's also his interesting staging of a barroom brawl - a staple in motion pictures since the 1930's - in a lesbian bar , which makes it all the more amusing . " Foxy Brown " is good fun for fans of the genre , and over thirty years later , it's developed a strong legacy , right up to the emergence of a female rapper with the exact same moniker . Overall , a good follow-up to " Coffy " .
Nicely done sci-fi from Hammer Studios .	In modern-day London , a tunnel excavation intended to add extensions to the existing subway system unearths some strange finds . First , a series of skulls and skeletons neither ape nor man , but something in between , possibly dating as far back as five million years ( ! ) . Next , a strange object , possibly a spaceship , containing some locust-like creatures . Dr . Matthew Roney ( an engaging James Donald ) and stolid Professor Bernard Quatermass ( a truly excellent Andrew Keir ) , in between quarreling with stubborn military man Col . Breen ( the highly enjoyable Julian Glover ) , probe the mystery of these discoveries . While for me it took some getting used to the very slow and steady approach of this film , it still provided genuinely intriguing ideas in a thoughtful and intelligent matter . Most intriguing is that science and religion are linked in the concept of a spiritual evil that could be ready to cause destruction on Earth . The increasing sense of desperation and concern that our protagonists feel culminates in a slam-bang finale as the film-makers finally let spectacle take over and give us a doozy of an ending . Better known more for their series of period horror films , Britains ' Hammer Studios did a very respectable job with their foray into the realm of science-fiction . This is a chilling movie with an exemplary music score by Tristram Cary , good underground sets , a fine cast , solid direction by Roy Ward Baker , and an original and provocative script by Nigel Kneale . It's an entertaining movie worth seeking out for discriminating sci-fi / horror fans .
" Isn't he the ladykiller ? " " Acquitted . "	Decent sequel to the 1991 movie " The Addams Family " in which most of the principal actors reprise their roles . Scheming , psychotic black-widow type nanny Debbie Jellinsky ( a very entertaining Joan Cusack ) insinuates herself into the Addams household ( after the arrival of new Addams baby Pubert ) ; her plan is to marry the lonely Uncle Fester ( Christopher Lloyd ) , and grab his money after she's bumped him off . As part of her plan , she actually gets Morticia ( Anjelica Huston ) and Gomez ( Raul Julia ) to send their children to summer camp ! This of course turns out to be pure torture for Wednesday ( Christina Ricci ) and Pugsley ( Jimmy Workman ) , especially since the camp directors ( Peter MacNicol and Christine Baranski ) are such a pair of dorky morons . Although " Addams Family Values " is good stuff as far as most sequels go , it doesn't have quite the number of laughs as the first film , and lacks a certain momentum . It coasts for a good deal of its running time on the performances of the actors , especially Ricci's ; she practically steals the movie this time around . Carol Kane replaces Judith Malina as Granny , not that it makes any real difference .
The first Poe adaptation that I've ever seen .	Adaptation of Edgar Allan Poe story in which evil and decadent Prince Prospero ( Vincent Price , obviously enjoying himself tremendously ) presides over a court of equally decadent revelers . Not only that , but he and his female companion ( Hazel Court ) are Satan worshippers as well . In contrast to other Roger Corman films adapted from Poe's works , this is pretty elaborate and benefits from a bigger budget and longer shooting schedule than his other Poe-based films . The film has some atmosphere , is nice to look at , and also has an enjoyable cast . It's a decently entertaining picture all around . Best of all , Price makes his villainous character thoroughly entertaining . One effect that this picture has had on me is a desire to seek out and read Poe's classic stories and poems ; it's a gleeful celebration of depravity and the macabre . I haven't seen many of the Poe adaptations ( I saw " The Raven " quite some time ago , but don't remember much about it . ) but this was obviously a good place to start .
Jason Voorhees Hacks And Slashes His Way Through The 25th Century .	Just like " Jason Goes To Hell " before it , there is nothing connecting this film to the previous series entry . NOTHING . In the early 21st Century , Jason is being studied in a research lab located in Crystal Lake ( no explanation how he got there ) and inevitably escapes . He is about to slaughter sexy scientist Rowan ( Lexa Doig ) when they both get cryogenically frozen - for almost 500 years . Cut to a ' Star Trek ' like spaceship where their bodies are brought on board . No prizes for guessing what happens soon after . When I first heard of the concept for " Jason X " I thought about what a contrived effort this was to keep an endless series going . Jason in outer space ? This thoroughly goofy , oddball film plays like a standard modern-day sci-fi TV series with special guest star Jason Voorhees . All things considered , I can see why some people would hate it . And I'll be darned , if half way through , it didn't start reminding me of " Aliens ! " That said , I found it to be an entertaining yet nasty picture - it's more entertaining than it really has a right to be . Some VERY gruesome deaths are in store for these people . It does rely on standard series cliches ; even in the 25th Century , youngsters are still Horny Morons . Film director David Cronenberg appears in the opening segment as " Dr . Wimmer . " I'm not proud of myself , but I give it .
A creditable debut for Cronenberg .	This film takes place at Starliner Towers , a high rise apartment complex isolated on an island and which is very self-sufficient . A biological experiment gone awry has led to the creation of slug-like parasites that , once inside a human body , turn people into ravenous sexual deviants . The buildings ' in-house doctor , Roger St . Luc ( Paul Hampton ) becomes aware that the tenants are going mad , but will he be able to stem the tide of wanton sexual aggression on display here ? This was truly a groundbreaking film , not only for its director , David Cronenberg , who had previously only done " underground " films , but it paved the way for the future of the horror genre in Canada . Cronenberg may have been learning as he went along , making this film and its follow-up , " Rabid " , and it's obviously not as polished as his subsequent works , but it's still very respectable , showing early on that he had a definite aptitude for this medium . It's along the lines of his other early films to deal with " body horror " : it's provocative , intriguing , violent , and unnerving . He offers such memorable and potent images as a bathtub scene featuring none other than the iconic actress Barbara Steele , and especially a late scene featuring two children on leashes and behaving as dogs . The films ' action leads to an equally memorable " Night of the Living Dead " style finish . Joe Blasco provides the film with some decent creature creations and splatter that are just fine for low budget fare . With the amount of gore and violence on hand , it goes without saying that this film won't be for everybody , and there was some uproar at the time of the theatrical release that Canadian tax dollars could be going towards making this kind of film . Deep-voiced , sharp featured Joe Silver is wonderfully entertaining as the character who gives us all the necessary exposition , and the alluring cult actress Lynn Lowry is quite good as the nurse , making up for the blandness of male lead Hampton . Alan Migicovsky gets quite creepy as an early victim , who gets progressively more disgusting as the film goes on , Susan Petrie is cute and likable as his anguished wife , and guest star Steeles ' presence is very welcome . Suffice it to say , this film might not quite pack the same punch as Cronenbergs ' later horror films , such as " The Brood " , " Scanners " , " Videodrome " , or " The Fly " , but I think it's a solid debut with an offbeat premise and an effective delivery .
Not bad as werewolf movies go .	Country dwelling lawyer Janet ( Mariel Hemingway ) is thrilled when her globe-trotting brother Ted ( Michael Pare ) arrives stateside . However , good old Ted isn't telling her everything that she should know - what we in the audience already know thanks to the prologue . Only Thor ( Primo ) , the family dog , senses something is wrong about Ted . Clocking in at a surprisingly short 80 minutes , " Bad Moon " would never compare to fare such as " The Wolf Man " , " Curse of the Werewolf " , " The Howling " , or " An American Werewolf in London " . Or more recent fare such as " Ginger Snaps " and " Dog Soldiers " , for that matter . Writer / director Eric Red , whose noteworthy genre credits include " The Hitcher " , " Near Dark " , and " Body Parts " , takes his material seriously , and gets good performances out of Hemingway , Pare , and young Mason Gamble as Hemingways ' son . The movie is technically well made , with decent CGI effects and a ferocious looking werewolf . Slick cinematography of the forest setting is also a plus . It's basically fairly enjoyable , and moves along pretty well . It's just not particularly scary or suspenseful and is rather predictable . The best part is Primo , a beautiful and obviously well trained German Shepherd who ends up the main reason to watch the movie . It's not destined to become a classic , but is a watchable enough movie of its type .
KISS ME .	Based upon James Patterson's best-seller . A smooth , egomaniacal serial killer who fancies himself a connoisseur of extraordinary women holds his victims captive in an underground lair , and only murders them when they break his rules . However , he makes two crucial mistakes : first , when he nabs the violin-playing niece ( Gina Ravera ) of a famed , exceptional Washington D . C . forensic psychologist ( Morgan Freeman ) who is determined to find and save her . Second , when another of his intended victims ( Ashley Judd ) manages to escape from him - and becomes just as determined to save the other girls . Although in some ways a standard-issue Hollywood-made Cop Vs . Killer Movie , it is professionally handled , well-acted ( especially by Freeman and Judd ) and watchable throughout , so that it ends up a little above average . It does feature an important plot twist I haven't seen in any other movie like this . A couple of quibbles , though : 1 ) The killer's identity may be too easy for some to guess . 2 ) Considering the way Alex Cross ( Freeman ) ultimately ID's the sicko , you'd think SOMEBODY else would have been sharp enough to notice this evidence . Still , I considered it time well spent . Of course , I'll watch anything Morgan Freeman is in ; the man is just phenomenal , carrying the picture in his usually quiet , authoritative manner .
Better Than I Expected .	All-too-familiar plot that has been recycled many times before : working-class waitress Slim ( J-Lo ) marries customer Mitch ( Billy Campbell ) thinking he's a nice guy . Well , after years of marriage and the birth of a cute daughter , Slim eventually finds out what kind of man Mitch REALLY is . Everything that follows is routine and predictable . I'm sure some viewers will be able to guess events before they happen . I say that it's better than expected because I wasn't expecting much ( given that the heroine is named " Slim " and her father is named " Jupiter " ) . It is a slickly made film from a group of professionals , and the cast is enjoyable . ( Noah Wyle of E . R . is surprisingly good as a slimeball , considering his role as nice-guy Carter on that series . ) This lapses into woman-in-jeopardy cliches , but if you're like me you won't care TOO much . And that ending ( I guess that I need to say SPOILER here ) is a foregone conclusion . I give it , but I honestly don't think it deserves more than that .
Not bad , but could have been better .	A dramatization of the life of serial killer Ted Bundy , the very man , apparently , for whom the term " serial killer " was created . Bundy also helped to change the face of this sort of person and made us realize that they didn't necessarily have to look like the human equivalent of a boogeyman , that they can be attractive and charismatic ( as Bundy was ) and appear quite normal to the casual observer . Like other viewers , I'm sure , I went into this thinking that this would be more of a psychological study ; that the movie might try to figure out what made this monster tick . We get none of the details of his early years , but more of a walk through his horrific murder spree . The movie shows him in a relationship with a too-trusting young mother ( Boti Ann Bliss ) , who never realizes his true nature until well after the fact . So , in that respect , the movie is good for showing how this type of person can function in society with not many people the wiser . We do get a fair amount of detail into various abductions , assaults , and murders , and the brutality is never shied away from . Bundy was nothing if not creative when it came to duping his victims ; a case in point is his use of a cast to attract sympathy and assistance . ( This idea would later be utilized in the thriller " The Silence of the Lambs " . ) Michael Reilly Burke does a solid job as Bundy . Bliss is likable in her role , and there are nice cameos for special effects legend Tom Savini ( as a detective ) and character actor Tracey Walter . Horror fans will take delight in the presence of sexy scream queen Tiffany Shepis as a would-be victim who fights back . While not completely satisfying , and not on the level of the superior " Henry : Portrait of a Serial Killer " , this is a reasonably creepy and entertaining portrayal of one human monsters ' exploits .
Worth seeing mainly for Michael Moriarty's performance .	Tongue-in-cheek , character-driven little Larry Cohen film , made in the veteran maverick director's inimitable style . It's ostensibly about a monster , Quetzlcoatl , an enormous flying bird / serpent / god that was supposedly brought back into existence by the performance of gory , ritual killings . However , as anyone who's seen this can tell you , the creature and its rampages become secondary to the characters and their dilemmas . Michael Moriarty portrays Jimmy Quinn , an odd guy ( just check out his unique and stylized performance ; it's unlike anything else I've seen him do ) who would like to be a jazz pianist ( Cohen found out that this was a hobby of the actor in real life and made it a part of the role , much to Moriarty's delight ) but who is forced to participating in crimes to make what little money he can . After a heist goes wrong , Quinn runs and hides in the very top of the Chrysler Building , where he discovers a big nest and a big egg . Knowing how much the fearful city wants the flying menace eliminated , he figures to profit from his knowledge of the creature's hiding place . Things don't quite work out that way , however . Great to see Richard Roundtree as always , and VERY amusing to see David Carradine in a coat and tie as a detective . Carradine plays a guy who contrary to most cops in movies like this is willing to accept the unreal . Effects are by the late David Allen , as well as Randy ( Randall William ) Cook and Peter Kuran ; the latter two did work for John Carpenter's " The Thing " , released the same year as this . Carradine's brother Bruce turns up as a victim near the film's conclusion . Despite similarities to 1998's " Godzilla " ( which blatantly rips off this film's final shot ) , " Godzilla " is basically a dumb , overblown , and yet kind of fun popcorn movie . " Q " is more substantial and more interesting , overall . Features some of the best overhead shots of NYC that I've ever seen .
9 , 10 , he's back again . . .	Genuinely interesting - if not completely scary - movie blends fiction and reality as several people associated with the " Nightmare " franchise play themselves , in a story in which actress Heather Langenkamp is being plagued by nightmares about the Freddy Krueger character . She gradually learns that the " Freddy Krueger " character has taken on a life of " his " own and is determined to punish the makers of the " Nightmare " series for killing him off in Part Six . I'll say this for what writer / director Wes Craven has done - this is ambitious work that could legitimately claim to be more intelligent than standard slasher cinema . Like I said , I didn't find to be particularly scary ( at least not for my tastes ) , but this doesn't rely on any standard slasher formula , and for once the characters aren't certifiable morons . The most amusing thing about the movie is watching various actors and executives play themselves , or at least versions of themselves . Miko Hughes , who plays Langenkamp's fictional son Dylan , is cute and a tolerable young actor - I've seen worse child actors in my time . Best of all , " Freddy " has become a genuinely frightening bogeyman again instead of the joke he had become by Part Six .
Run For Your Life !	Sequel to the enormous horror hit " Halloween " picks up right - I mean RIGHT - where the original ended ; Michael Myers has survived being shot six times by Dr . Loomis ( Donald Pleasence ) - our first clue that he's something other than human - and he tracks Laurie Strode ( Jamie Lee Curtis ) down to the hospital where she has been taken . A decent , respectable horror sequel that makes for good viewing even if it is not the classic that the original was . In fact , it's closer to being a standard slasher picture . The body count is multiplied by over three times - and there's a lot more blood shown on camera . Still effectively eerie , reasonably well directed by Rick Rosenthal even if he's no John Carpenter . I think it's fairly scary although I have to wonder why there are so many lights out at the hospital - and why it is operating with a skeleton staff . This was written by Carpenter and Debra Hill , co-writers of the original movie , and while still suffering from script holes , it isn't too bad . Curtis still makes for a sympathetic would-be victim , even though in this movie she doesn't do much more than whimper , scream , cower , and run / limp along . While you watch , keep an eye out for future comic star Dana Carvey , in his first movie role .
Laugh ? I thought I'd die .	" Dr . Giggles " is an engaging , tongue-in-cheek slasher that derives great dark humor out of unauthorized surgery . Evan Rendell ( Larry Drake ) , yearning to be a doctor just like his old man , escapes from a mental hospital and sets up his macabre clinic in the old family home in Moorehigh . As he performs his lethal operations on the citizens , he learns that unhappy teen Jennifer ( Holly Marie Combs of ' Charmed ' fame ) has a heart ailment and is determined to provide her with a new heart . Thankfully , there are plenty of unwilling donors available . This is a fun 90's era slasher . It's a slick , glossy film with impressive cinematography ( by Robert Draper ) and efficient pacing that doesn't let up until the end . The cast is way above average for this sort of thing : Cliff De Young plays Jennifer's loving father , Michelle Johnson the younger woman he has taken up with since his wife's death , Richard Bradford the veteran cop with a disturbing secret to tell , Keith Diamond his understandably perturbed younger partner , Nancy Fish the grumpy middle-aged neighbor , and the late Glenn Quinn as Jennifer's unfaithful but still basically decent boyfriend . They're all fine , but Drake offers a delightful star performance as the unhinged doc . His dialog largely consists of popular one - liners associated with doctors and the medical profession , and they're used to great effect . The film has some rather stylish touches . The moving camera and the angles are well done , with two standout sequences coming to mind . The first is a suspense sequence in a carnival funhouse , where co-writer / director Manny Coto makes good use of the multiple mirrors . The second is a memorable sequence involving a young Rendell and his mother's dead body . The film has no shortage of victims for Rendell to claim , so slasher fans can take pleasure in a high body count . KNB does a typically solid job in the makeup effects department . One of the brightest , funniest moments comes when Rendell passes by a young boy playing his video game with glassy-eyed obsession , and does no more than mutter , " Terminal " . " Dr . Giggles " offers a generous dose of silly , agreeable slasher fun for an amusing 95 minutes that pretty much fly by .
Twisted backwoods horror with a great climax .	This early directing credit for Charles Kaufman , the brother of Troma boss Lloyd Kaufman , has three young ladies getting together for their annual dose of female bonding . This time , they're going camping , but they get abducted and brutalized by two demented hillbilly sickies and their loving mama . But that sure ain't the end of the story . Two of the ladies decide they're not going to stand for this sort of treatment , and hit back hard . This movie was a true family affair with sister Susan Kaufman serving as the production designer , and father Stanley making a brief appearance on-screen . Most of the minuscule budget looks like it went towards art direction , which pays off pretty well since the back-of-the-beyond abode is a real study in disarray . Makeup effects aren't nearly as impressive , with the opening decapitation scene hysterically unconvincing . The film is divided into three parts ; the first half hour introduces us to the ladies , gives them a bit of back story , and had me liking them enough to care what happened to them . It's a study in female friendships , and it's really kind of affecting . The second part has the creeps descending on them , and is the most depraved part of the film . In the final act , it turns into a gleefully outrageous revenge saga . If the film-makers have done their job , you'll be rooting for the ladies as they slaughter the three yokels using some interesting methods . However , it isn't just a sleazy little exploitation horror picture . Satirical elements blend with some actual character arcs on the part of the ladies , as the two survivors temporarily switch personalities as the tougher one starts breaking down and the weaker one gains resolve . The acting is definitely amateurish for the most part , but the three female leads are likable enough , and the three actors playing the antagonists ( all acting under pseudonyms , incidentally ) attack their roles ( and victims ) with relish . Overall , its sillier , cruder , and sleazier moments balance with its more intriguing aspects to result in a real hoot of a film ; it's outrageous , nasty low-budget fun . On a final note , there's some amazing bits of trivia associated with this film !
He's a racing son-of-a-gun . . .	Frankie Avalon plays self-confident young racer Dave Owens who takes on egomaniacal reigning champion Leander Fox ( Fabian ) in this fairly engaging change of pace for the " Beach Party " cast and crew . Dave is tricked into running moonshine for garage owner Charlie Bigg ( Harvey Lembeck ) and the very enticing young blonde track owner Martha ( Julie Parrish ) . Naturally , he's too morally upright to stand for this , and the revenuers put the pressure on him to supply them with information . There's quite a bit of good action on the track with enthusiastic commentary by real-life track announcer Sandy Reed . The film certainly takes on a darker tone than one might expect from watching the " Beach Party " series . Yet it never bogs down too much in melodrama . Naturally , Frankie and Annette get to sing on a few occasions . ( She plays Fabian's love interest , and in an interesting turn of events doesn't care too much for Frankie here . ) Frankie tussles with both Fabian and Lembeck ; the latter fight in particular is quite an amusing set piece . Chill Wills adds great blustery support as Annette's gregarious uncle " Big Jaw " , with nice turns in small parts by Douglas Henderson and Baynes Barron as the revenuers , Len Lesser as an amiable redneck , Mike Nader as Joey and Billy Beck as Jobber . Parrish contributes a great deal of sex appeal and is very easy to watch throughout . It does deliver some decent " feel good " vibes , and is overall a reasonably entertaining piece . The claymation sequences at the beginning and end ( courtesy of Art Clokey of " Gumby " fame ) are a cute and funny touch .
Enjoyable , intense horror film .	A British horror film producer , James ( John Nolan ) insists that a long-ago witches ' curse is part of his familys ' history . After the production of his latest project finishes , people associated with him and the film start to be either terrorized or brutally murdered . Comparisons to Dario Argentos ' " Suspiria " are certainly apt . This film depends far more on delivering atmosphere , shocks , and general all-around creepiness than being particularly coherent or logical . While it's not on a par with that other film , I think it's still entertaining for what it is . Director Norman J . Warren starts it off on a pretty ominous note and keeps things off-balance and nasty for the duration . The opening nine minutes are reasonably clever , as they turn out to be a film-within-the-film . From then on , Warren moves from one crazed set piece to another , never shying away from gory violence . Special effects and gore are decently done , with one rather amusing sequence involving a levitating automobile . The cast is not all that good , but since this film is not particularly performance driven , I can accept that . That said , Tricia Walsh ( now best known for her Youtube appearances ) is fun as a ditzy actress , and Peter Mayhew ( Chewbacca of the " Star Wars " franchise ) pops up as an intimidating looking mechanic and veteran film heavy Milton Reid appears as a bouncer . People looking for an agreeable " style over substance " horror film might enjoy this one . It's gotten its share of derision , but I still think it's worth a look for interested horror fans . At the least , I have to admire the bluntness of the downbeat ending : once this film is over , it's over .
The most dreadful thing that ever happened to me was . . .	Film adaptation of Peter Straub novel in which four elderly New England gentlemen ( Fred Astaire , Melvyn Douglas , Douglas Fairbanks Jr . , and John Houseman ) are haunted by memories of a tragic event in their long-ago past that may have something to do with the strange and eerie things happening in the present day . " Ghost Story " , the movie itself , is certainly okay but it wouldn't probably make a list of the " best " horror pictures . I was never scared watching it , but I was intrigued . The story is reasonably interesting and the movie is subtle compared to many a 1980's horror film ( although the film-makers do create some genuinely ugly apparitions ) , for one thing - and the casting of four highly enjoyable acting legends in the leading roles lends it a degree of class . The problem that I've heard some people have with it is that it is nowhere near as good as the novel , which was supposed to be more complicated . Someday I'll read the novel myself and I'll be able to make my own judgment . For now , I consider it entertaining on its own . ( Cast gets )
Entertaining B flick .	Jim Hutton stars as Arnold Masters , wrongly convicted of murder and confined to a mental institution . While he's there , his mother , who means everything to him , dies due to neglect . Thanks to a fellow patient , he gets wind of a way to strike back at those who've done him wrong , which involves having out-of-body experiences . Hutton is good as a Norman Bates type of tormented antagonist , as is Paul Burke as the detective perplexed by this bizarre murder spree . The supporting cast is full of familiar faces : Julie Adams and Whit Bissell , who were both in " Creature from the Black Lagoon " , Neville Brand , Nehemiah Persoff , Aldo Ray , Rod Cameron , and even Della Reese . Co-writer / co-producer Greydon Clark appears on screen as one of the targets of Hutton's vengeance . Other actors whom viewers might recognize include Mary Wilcox , Judith Brown , and Stack Pierce . The premise is novel enough , and the movie entertaining . It doesn't take itself too seriously ; a case in point is a victim crushed by a concrete block after he's been singing away ; when we see the results , it's reminiscent of a cartoon . Other deaths involve off-screen neck breaking , scalding showers , and a highlight of a death by meat slicer . There's even a dose of female flesh on display courtesy of the sexy Ms . Wilcox . It's executed pretty well by actor-turned-director Ray Danton ( " The Deathmaster " ) and is fun to watch . The fact that Arnold clearly doesn't mind living in such a run-down house is a source of real amusement . Some B movie fans might enjoy this one , even if it's never that intense or creepy . It's a spirited and enjoyable little horror picture .
An entertaining , incredibly lively creature feature .	One of the films to result from the ' Project Greenlight ' TV series , this frenetic movie tells us the slim but entertaining story of a siege laid by some truly hideous creatures to the patrons and employees of a middle-of-nowhere Southern bar . Although the action set pieces are edited so choppily as to make them incoherent , there's no denying the zeal that the debuting director , John Gulager , and his crew , bring to the project . The movie is full of some great gore , and has some pretty good creature creations . I also found it interesting the way that it kept playing with expectations in terms of who lives and who dies . Unpredictability , more often than not , is a good thing , and I appreciated this movie for that . The cast is game . I found Henry Rollins particularly funny as a motivational speaker ( the movie takes the time to cleverly mock those in this kind of profession ) , and the presence of the directors ' father , veteran actor Clu Gulager , as the bartender , is a special treat . The characters are introduced at the beginning of the movie with quick freeze frames and accompanying information , including life expectancy . Character names are amusingly descriptive instead of being proper names ; for example , we get names like " Harley Mom " and " Beer Guy " . While of course it lacks substance , that is entirely the point . I can see that this is just supposed to be a purely fun movie - in-your-face , full of attitude , and a real hoot from beginning to end . The film features no less than 12 executive producers - among them , Ben Affleck , Matt Damon , and Wes Craven .
Well-Intentioned Holiday Movie .	Nicolas Cage plays Jack , a Wall Street whiz , who makes the acquaintance of a mysterious stranger " Cash " ( Don Cheadle ) . Cash ends up showing Jack what his life would have been like if he'd made different choices in life . In this alternate reality , Jack is a family man and tire salesman , and he reacts with horror ( at first ) until he sees the joys of working-class , family life . Like I say , this film definitely has good intentions , and it's more or less believable ( some viewers may have doubts about some of the details ) . In any event , it's predictable but doesn't work out quite the way you might expect . I wouldn't say anything more because I know I can't give it away . That actually works , though , because a lot of movies go for a conventional ending , and this movie has the brevity to " swim against the tide . " Fantastic cast , too . I enjoyed it , maybe you will too . .
Interesting , effective and thoughtful thriller .	Frank Davis ( John P . Ryan ) and wife Lenore ( Sharon Farrell ) are happily expecting their second child , but the delivery turns into a massacre ; a mutated , fanged , shrieking infant is responsible , and it goes on the expected rampage . As the cops track it down , Frank has to contend with an increasingly unstable Lenore . Larry Cohen strikes again with a typically bold and innovative thriller ; as movies with mutant babies go , this would rank right up there as one of the greats . The director combines the thrill of low-budget schlock with intriguing commentary on the state of the environment , and the ultimate effects of medication , circa 1974 . Highlighted by contributions from two Oscar-winning greats , namely the legendary Bernard Herrmann , whose music score is genuinely ominous and provocative , and makeup effects master Rick Baker , who crafted a killer creature ( which he also " plays " ) that refrains from ever becoming too cheesy . Actor Ryan , a veteran of many character and supporting parts ( particularly villainous ones ) does a capable job in a rare , sympathetic leading role , with Farrell , stock company Cohen regular James Dixon , Guy Stockwell , Andrew Duggan , and William Wellman Jr . offering fine support . A nicely suspenseful picture with some gory moments , there are times when it feels a little dull and draggy , but it ultimately delivers the goods . I recommend it .
Better than expected .	This is a fine , moody and stark little horror movie basically taking its plot from " Island of Lost Souls " . Shipwreck survivor William Fitzgerald ( likable enough Richard Derr ) is rescued and brought to the home of island-dwelling scientist Charles Girard ( the effective Francis Lederer ) . Fitzgerald meets Charles's hot young wife Frances ( stunning Greta Thyssen , Miss Denmark in 1951 ) and falls for her , while learning that what Charles is working on is defying the natural process of evolution and slowly turning an animal into a human being . Shot on location in the Philippines ( this was apparently the very first Filipino horror movie ) , director Gerry de Leon and company make the most of their environment . It's a wonderfully minimalist experience and a combination mad scientist and monster movie in the classic tradition . There's lots of shadow ( and therefore lots of atmosphere ) . De Leon goes for the subtle approach all the way through , holding off a reveal of the creature as long as possible . ( Flory Carlos does a commendable job in this role , making the creature both scary and pitiable . ) And the makeup job isn't too bad , either . The one scene of " graphic " on-screen violence most likely wouldn't affect the modern audience at all . It has a rather sedate pace at first but definitely picks up in its final third . Perhaps most interesting is the way that the low-key approach extends to the two male leads . Charles never acts that " mad " , but is quite warm and hospitable for a while and doesn't even mind talking about his work with his guest . Lederer never lets his performance slip too much into camp . And the moral outrage that we would expect from William isn't overdone , either ; rather , although he disagrees with his host , he remains somewhat fascinated in spite of himself . Thyssen does a decent enough job acting , but at the least does provide this movie with very enjoyable eye candy . Oscar Keesee is good as Walter , while Peyton Keesee is appealing as Tiago the boy and Lilia Duran very sexy as Selene . This would make for a fine choice of midnight movie viewing . It's definitely worth watching if you're into this sort of thing .
Good if not great Hammer horror .	In Europe around the turn of the century , a mysterious murderer is on the loose , one that turns its victims to stone . It's Megaera , one of the three Gorgons of Greek mythology , that has managed to live on through the ages . Having lost both his father and brother to the creature , Paul Heitz ( Richard Pasco ) determines to solve the mystery , with the resistance of local doctor Namaroff ( Peter Cushing ) and the help of his professor , Meister ( Christopher Lee ) . Director Terence Fisher , in his career , had a simply amazing amount of genre entries to his credit , and this is directed in his typically efficient manner . It looks good , suspense and atmosphere are well done , and the cast does some fine work . It's lacking in terms of mystery , but is also quite effective in terms of portraying a tragic romance . Pasco is so good as a man blinded by love it would be hard not to feel something for him . Old pros Cushing and Lee pull a nice switch here , with Cushing in a more dubious role than usual and Lee making for a stolid heroic type . Even though they don't appear together a lot , and Lee's role is minimal until the final half hour , they're still well worth watching as always . Brit beauty Barbara Shelley , " Dr . Who " performer Patrick Troughton , and Jack Watson figure prominently in a fine supporting cast . The Gorgon itself , played by Prudence Hyman , is not all that scary or formidable , but is not badly done either . It works better in fleeting glimpses than when a full reveal finally takes place . Still , it's an interesting and unusual creature the likes of which we don't see all that often . A commendably bleak and somber film , this is undeniably one of the more interesting things that I've seen from Hammer .
My first William Castle experience .	The always delightful Vincent Price stars as Warren Chapin , a surgeon / scientist who makes an incredible discovery . It turns out that fear causes a creature slightly resembling a lobster to grow on human spines . The only thing that defeats it is screaming . Legendary master showman Castle was absolutely great at coming up with marketing ploys in his low-budget horror movies . In this movie , he came up with " Percepto " , wherein selected theater seats would have buzzers attached and people in those seats would get shocked and yell out and get other theater patrons going . This little means of ensuring audience participation allows for a real sense of fun to come into play . Price is as solid as he's ever been , and gets a chance to ham it up during the notorious LSD trip sequence , supposedly the first ever portrayed on film . Judith Evelyn , in a marvelous performance hearkening back to silent film acting , is a deaf mute whom Price figures will be the best means possible to obtain one of the creatures , since she's incapable of screaming . Darryl Hickman is likable as Prices ' assistant , and Patricia Cutts perfectly snippy as Prices ' unfaithful , rotten , conniving wife . In addition to the LSD trip , there's a fine set piece with Evelyn hallucinating and getting scared to death ; the bright burst of red in the otherwise completely black & white movie is quite captivating . The climax with The Tingler at loose in the theater ( while the silent film " Tol'able David " is being shown ) is also most enjoyable . Granted , you'll have to be able to gloss over the less than special effects ; you can clearly see the wires manipulating the creature , but this is basically a spirited and infectious dose of horror movie gimmickry . Seeing it nowadays , I'm sure , just isn't the same as it would have been back in 1959 . I can't help but think how much fun it would be to go back in time and see this with an audience in a packed theater . Still , I enjoyed it . It's hard to resist the kind of enthusiasm Castle obviously felt making these pictures .
The book is not closed . . .	Follow-up to " Kiss the Girls " , based on another Alex Cross story by James Patterson . Depraved criminal Gary Soneji ( Michael Wincott ) is determined to surpass the Lindbergh kidnapping of 1932 and have people everywhere marveling at his cleverness , so he abducts young Megan Rose ( Mika Boorem ) , a senator's daughter , from a private school for the children of diplomats . Because he desperately wants to be documented , he draws Cross into the case , and Cross ( Morgan Freeman reprises his role ) investigates the case with young Secret Service agent Jezzie Flanigan ( Monica Potter ) . Decent , acceptable follow-up to the original hit is , like " Kiss the Girls " , professionally handled and noticeably slick . It has interesting plot twists and a couple of exceptional actors . Best scene has Cross being led all over Washington , D . C . in order to make a ransom drop . I will say some things , though : Cross is so knowledgeable , savvy and intuitive he almost seems unreal - there is nothing this guy can't figure out , and he's the kind of movie cop who makes most of the other cops look like morons in comparison . It will also be unpleasant for some people to watch , seeing a child in jeopardy like that ( although this particular child actually proves to be a tough little cookie ) .
A pretty good small-scale sci-fi thriller .	Charlie Sheen , in a fine dramatic performance , is Zane Zaminsky ( you've gotta love that name ) , a radio astronomer who receives a signal from space . Instead of getting any sort of kudos from boss Phil Gordian ( Ron Silver ) , he gets fired instead . This is just the beginning of Zane's quest , as he tracks the source of a second signal to a remote Mexican location and discovers a nefarious plot concocted by very stealthy aliens that he has to stop - almost all by himself . For those people who do get tired of in-your-face , summer blockbuster type alien invasion movies where spectacle is priority number one ( " Independence Day " was released later the same year as this film ) , " The Arrival " may be your idea of an acceptable alternative . It's really rather subtle , deliberately paced , and even sort of thoughtful . Writer / director David Twohy ( " Pitch Black " ) , making his theatrical film-making debut , makes it clear that he is trying to put this kind of story in a " realistic " sort of mode , in other words , relying more on ' science fact ' than ' science fiction ' , as some people might say . Rarely have I seen Sheen give such an intense , committed performance . He really keeps it interesting . Silver is effectively understated as the vaguely dubious superior - even once he realizes that Sheen is on to him , he doesn't lose his cool , and Lindsay Crouse , Teri Polo , Richard Schiff , Tony T . Johnson , and Leon Rippy round out this cast . The visual and make-up effects are well done , and this is one of the rare cases where they don't take center stage , but are just assisting in telling the story . The creatures are animated creations , but look refreshingly believable as opposed to being patently two-dimensional . The look of the film - especially the underground lair that Zane eventually sneaks into - is worth noting also . It delivers some good suspense at times , aided by a great music score by Arthur Kempel that I definitely enjoyed . In keeping with the tone of the film , the finale is willfully low-key - and ominous in its own way . Followed by a direct-to-video sequel two years later .
Good of its type .	Cold War era science-fiction / political paranoia thriller about computerized intelligence ( the titular " Colossus " ) designed to defend the U . S . However , no-one , including system creator Charles Forbin ( soap opera mainstay Eric Braeden ) could have foreseen just how intelligent this system would become , when it becomes determined to link up with its Soviet counterpart and control the balance of world power . A slow , quiet , and methodical movie that is a true product of its time ( and also a forerunner of movies like " War Games " and " The Terminator " ) , this movie would probably not appeal to the modern viewer , with its less advanced technology and a notable de-emphasis on quick pacing and action sequences . Nevertheless , it does its job pretty well . It's reasonably intelligent and disquieting , exploring a common movie theme of the dangers of turning our lives over to artificial intelligence . This is a well cast ( there's a number of familiar faces present ) and well directed movie . It does maintain interest , although people with shorter attention spans might be inclined to let their minds wander . All in all , a thoroughly decent movie that leads to a downbeat , almost kind of non-ending ( there's no big melodramatic finale ) which helps to make it more memorable than the kind of movie that would order up a happy ending ; this makes it more typical of the kind of iconoclastic , cynical films that would start to appear in the 1970's .
A Chuck Norris movie with a difference .	A dangerous , disturbed hulk of a man named John Kirby ( Brian Libby ) snaps one morning and kills two people ; sheriff Dan Stevens ( Norris ) arrives to apprehend him but Kirby just won't go down easily . He's pumped full of bullets and the team of doctors attempting to save him later decide to use him as a guinea pig for their formula . This makes him even more invulnerable than before . Of course , these doctors couldn't have picked a worse test subject , and Kirby becomes a relentless killing machine , a la Jason Voorhees or Michael Myers . " Silent Rage " isn't always to be taken completely seriously - it has silly moments here and there . It also could have benefited from a better leading lady . Of course , it being a Chuck Norris movie , it wouldn't be complete without giving us a chance to watch him doing what he does best , as he humiliates an entire biker gang , in an entertaining enough sequence . Veteran comic actor Stephen Furst is on hand to play ? what else ? ? a comedy relief bumbling deputy . His presence was a little too incongruous for me , although he at least made his character reasonably likable . Director Michael Miller of " Jackson County Jail " fame does have a way with suspense in this movie that offers Norris a change of pace . It's part cop vs . killer movie , part " Frankenstein " - type story , and part slasher , with the martial arts not playing a very big part . Miller reels us in with a grabber of an opening ? it's chilling the way that it's both unbelievably tense and chaotic at the same time . A prowling camera is an asset in this scene , and also in a very " Halloween " inspired sequence around the half way point . Libby is well cast in his role , and is even more positively creepy once he no longer has dialog . Three solid actors play the ambitious doctors of varying moral compasses . Ron Silver is the well-intentioned one , Steven Keats is the ruthless one , and William Finley is the ambivalent one . They're quite an interesting and entertaining trio . This movie comes recommended to Norris fans wanting to see him in a different genre . It's certainly no worse than other horror movies to come out around the same time . It's fairly entertaining and actually moves at a respectable pace until its low-key final confrontation ( it actually plays out silently ( appropriately enough ) instead of with music ) and predictable final shot . It's pretty good stuff .
An agreeable Hammer outing .	In 1910 Hong Kong , a criminal organization named The Tongs is making life miserable for both the citizens and the local , largely ineffective police force . A ship captain named Jackson Sale ( a solid Geoffrey Toone ) ends up doggedly attempting to bring the organization down after they cold-bloodedly murder his teen daughter while tracking down a document that could incriminate them . While the prospect of seeing a number of Brits cast as Orientals ( this sort of thing wouldn't fly nowadays ) takes a little away from the effectiveness , this is undeniably a reasonably entertaining if unmemorable outing . It has its moments ; its unexpected nastiness packs a punch at times . Sale proves to be quite a formidable and determined hero , and it's enjoyable to watch him take on the enemy . Star attraction Christopher Lee , heavily made up but instantly recognizable for his deep , rich voice , is a smooth , calculating , and incredibly restrained villain who never loses his cool or panics . He was a definite highlight of the movie for me . Sexy Yvonne Monlaur makes for good eye candy , and Brian Worth , Ewen Solon , Marne Maitland , Charles Lloyd Pack , and Burt Kwouk - Cato in the " Pink Panther " series - comprise a fine supporting cast . The locations and sets work well , the direction by Anthony Bushell efficient - the picture moves along well enough to clock in at a trim 77 minute running time - and overall it's a fun bit of escapist fare . It's worth catching for Hammer fans wishing to see the studio dabble in other genres besides sci-fi and horror .
" I'll bet your suicide victim is in there . "	Five intelligence-impaired , conveniently attractive sex-driven kids are on their way to a Lynyrd Skynyrd concert in 1973 . They pick up a distraught hitch-hiking girl who blows her brains out inside their van . They drive to the nearest town where they are instructed to drive to a certain spot to meet the Sheriff ( R . Lee Ermey ) . Unfortunately , this is the very area in which the Hewitt family resides - and their pride and joy , the gargantuan and disfigured Leatherface ( Andrew Bryniarski ) proceeds to terrorize these kids . Un-necessary , but better than expected , remake of Tobe Hooper's fondly remembered 1974 horror classic ( inspired by the real life exploits of demented farmer Ed Gein ) , this dark , hardcore , and nasty picture moves at a fairly good pace . It doesn't start off too well , however , and there is a certain tastelessness as the camera leers endlessly at the poor hitch-hiker's corpse . Also , the picture pretty much turns into a standard-issue , predictable " teenagers run around screaming while getting slaughtered one at a time " formula . All the same , I was able to believe these kids were living a nightmare , even if this picture did not leave the same impression on my mind as the original . It's entertaining enough , though , as entertaining as I think it could have been . It is true that it could have benefited from more humor . Bodybuilder Bryniarski ( who's played almost nothing but jocks in movies ) plays Leatherface with a certain physical presence . Ermey proves that with this performance that he's really at his best when playing meanies with nothing but contempt for their victims . This role seems like one he was born to play . The five young leads are passable at best , although their characters aren't very sympathetic . I can't help but wonder if the ending is deliberatelySPOILERpaving the way for a slew of new " Chainsaw " sequels . John Larroquette , who was the uncredited narrator for the original film , repeats that duty here .
An entertaining diversion .	While it may not be as classic as other sci-fi from the 1950's , this fanciful bit of sci-fi schlock does just fine for a nights ' viewing . A group of archaeologists find themselves descending deep into the earth where they discover not only a lost civilization of light-sensitive albinos , but the title creatures , used and abused by their human counterparts . John Agar , Hugh Beaumont , Alan Napier , Cynthia Patrick , and Nestor Paiva star , and the performances , like the film itself , are fun . The sets are decent , the pacing pretty efficient , and the music enjoyable . The photography is often dark and moody , adding a fair amount of atmosphere . There are even some nicely tense moments . Sure , it may be a little silly , and one may have to be partial to this kind of film to begin with , but I found it to be very engaging stuff . It begins with a surprisingly lengthy lecture by an apparent scientific expert on the earths ' core , which is an interesting way to start . The ending is also not quite what one would expect . All in all , I found this little picture very amusing and very watchable .
Good cast overcome so-so film .	One of the few mummy-themed movies to come from Britains ' legendary Hammer Studios , the scenario here is pretty standard , as the archaeological expedition that enter the tomb of an Egyptian child and would-be prince subsequently are cursed . The child's ' protector , found in mummified form , is resurrected through the use of the title garment and used to kill the transgressors . The review in Maltins ' annual guide gives it the lowest-of-the-low " BOMB " rating and declares it " one of the least Hammers " , but speaking as a fan of the horror genre and the studio , it's really not bad at all . Sure , it's not one of the studios ' best ; the screenplay and presentation are of no real distinction , but it's still quite watchable . The mummy is quite formidable and nasty , and doles out some sadistic punishment . I also thought it effective that no two methods of murder were the same . The cast is up to the task , with Andre Morell in a strong performance as the expedition leader , and John Phillips quite convincing as the self-serving rich man funding the expedition . Hammer mainstay Michael Ripper has a much more substantial part than usual , allowing him to make quite an impression as the incredibly jittery Longbarrow . ( This movie is well worth seeing for this aspect , if nothing else . ) David Buck , Elizabeth Sellars , gorgeous Maggie Kimberly , Tim Barrett , Richard Warner , Roger Delgado , and Catherine Lacey round out the main cast . Cinematographer Arthur Grant and production designer Bernard Robinson , two highly reliable pros who lent their talents to a number of Hammer films , do good work as always , and Don Banks supplies a great and spooky score . Special effects are enjoyable , with nice shots of the mummy's opening eyes and a nifty demise for him at the end . Even if no classic , it's still a reasonably entertaining movie with some good and effective moments .
A fun B movie .	A highly unusual mummy is found inside the tomb of King Tut and brought back to an American university where , after receiving a high dose of X-rays , it awakens from its 3 , 000 year slumber and goes on a rampage . Personally , I thought that this was pretty amusing . It's a decent premise , and the movie is never less than entertaining . At the least , I couldn't accuse it of being dull . I won't argue the point that it's not particularly well made , but I still enjoyed it . The film-makers try various gimmicks ( for example , green-tinted mummy P . O . V . shots ) to give it some semblance of style , and a typically excellent music score by Richard Band certainly helps . It's goofy , silly , cheesy , and not exactly scary , but I expected nothing more and got into the spirit of it . An incredible casting mix is a high point here . The stars of John Carpenters ' " Assault on Precinct 13 " , Austin Stoker and Darwin Joston , are re-united and it's great to see them sharing scenes again . Other cast members include Ryan O'Neal look-a-like Ben Murphy , Shari Belafonte-Harper , Antoinette Bower ( " Prom Night " ' 80 ) , Melissa Prophet ( " Invasion U . S . A . " ) , Nina Axelrod ( " Motel Hell " ) , the always wonderful James Karen ( " The Return of the Living Dead " ) , Alan Rachins ( ' L . A . Law ' ) , Warrington Gillette ( " Friday the 13th Part 2 " ) , and even the currently ubiquitous voice-over guy Don LaFontaine as a reporter ! My advice is to just not take it seriously at all . One may have to be partial to silly low-budget genre fare to begin with , but I liked it and I'm not embarrassed to say that . It may not be that " good " , but on a fun scale I give it a .
Websites that kill , videos that kill . . . what next ?	Americanized remake of the 1998 Japanese movie " Ringu " . Intrepid reporter Rachel Keller ( Naomi Watts ) investigates the story of a videocassette with some sort of unholy power : anybody who watches it dies a week later . Decent but over-hyped movie has a compelling story ( all through the film , it's disturbing to think what Rachel may discover ) , disturbing visuals ( " The Ring " is a virtual two-hour long phantasmagoria ) , a genuinely creepy mood ( I know right from the start that this film will be all doom and gloom ) , decent performances ( although it is really just veterans Jane Alexander and Brian Cox that stand out ) , and a chilling music score by Hans Zimmer . The opening sequence is a grabber . So why should I feel a little bit disappointed with a movie that certainly has its assets ? A lack of real scares would be one reason . The film's one show-stopping scene was only somewhat impressive . The cinematography displays everything in an almost monochromatic fashion . As a result , the film looks rather drab , but it seems to suit the mood of the film . I think that it's good , but not great . An awful lot of people sure seem to love it , though . Maybe there's something about it I'm not getting . One thing about it : it makes me want to see " Ringu " so I can compare the two movies . Usually ( as the big-time movie critics would have you believe ) American versions of foreign movies are travesties , so I wonder if this movie is any different . Not recommended for horse lovers .
Want Another Helping Of Frank And Beans ?	Ted ( Ben Stiller ) is still crazily in love with Mary ( Cameron Diaz ) , the beautiful girl he almost got to take to the prom 13 years earlier . He is persuaded to hire private detective Healy ( Matt Dillon ) to find her , only to find out that Healy and others are also obsessed with Mary as well . This comedy runs kind of hot and cold ; I agree that its most outrageous moments are nastily creative and give the movie its juice . Of course , the movie is stretched out for almost two hours worth , with its fair share of quiet moments . I also wince every time that Puffy the dog gets abused , even though I'm aware this is a comedy and I'm not supposed to take it seriously . And when I think about it , I feel sorry for Mary . Most of the guys who pursue her in this movie are unmitigated , unappealing losers . Probably the best Farrelly Brothers movie to date ( that I've seen , anyway ) . I give it .
Another likable Lon Chaney Jr . performance in a decent sci-fi / horror thriller .	Dan McCormick ( Lon Chaney Jr . ) survives a bus accident in which all of the other riders and the driver die of electrocution . It turns out that he has a novelty act ( mostly fake ) where he plays with electricity . He comes into the care of Dr . John Lawrence ( Samuel S . Hinds ) , where Dans ' seeming immunity to electrical shock is an irresistible appeal to Lawrences ' maniacal colleague , Dr . Rigas ( Lionel Atwill ) ; Rigas submits Dan to electrical stimuli over and over again until he becomes addicted to them , turning into a shambling , glowing , and unstoppable figure so powerful that he survives the electric chair . Director George Waggner , who would also guide the star in the werewolf classic " The Wolf Man " later the same year , delivers a quickly made and relatively inexpensive movie that clocks in at just over an hour . While it isn't destined to become a classic , it's pretty enjoyable B-level stuff , well directed and acted and efficiently paced . ( Note how this picture really hits the ground running . ) Chaney Jr . anchors the production with a typically fine , engaging , and sympathetic performance , while beady-eyed Atwill is a wholly believable madman . It's a fun little movie with a standard but enjoyable monster-on-the-loose climax and a rather touching conclusion . Sometimes the most memorable leads of such horror / sci-fi films are victims who become killers due to circumstances beyond their control , and this is no exception . It's not " The Wolf Man " , but it does just fine for a nights ' viewing .
Stylish and violent giallo with some stand-out moments .	Peter Neal ( Anthony Franciosa ) , an author of mystery novels , comes to Rome to promote his latest work . An avid reader of his stories starts to commit a series of brutal murders , while sending him messages . Concerned , Neal does his own sleuthing when not being interrogated by the detectives assigned to the case . Dario Argento brings his usual flourishes to this movie . As could be expected , the murder sequences are staged for great shock value . The piece de resistance is saved for one of the final murders ; it's wonderfully garish . ( The visual hook of the movie - a lot of red ( including high heels ) on white - is very nice and typical of the director's style . ) The camera-work is indeed impressive as well . An extended sequence where a poor girl is terrorized by a relentless Doberman and ultimately led right to the killer is quite effective . The mystery is actually rather interesting . The revelations are pulled off well and the movie kept me guessing until only one possibility remained . A nice touch was to reference Conan Doyle's " The Hound of the Baskervilles " on screen and the memorable quote , " When you've eliminated the impossible , whatever remains , however improbable , must be the truth . " The twists keep coming until the end credits . Franciosa is good in the lead , and it's easy to watch any movie with such a strong line-up of stunningly sexy women : Mirella D'Angelo , Veronica Lario , Ania Pieroni , Eva Robins , Lara Wendel , and Daria Nicolodi . John Steiner and especially John Saxon are fun in supporting roles , although Saxon unfortunately doesn't get a whole lot to do . Assistant directors Lamberto Bava and Michele Soavi also have uncredited acting parts . ( And Theresa Russell is the voice of Anne in the English language version . ) Overall , it's an engrossing and entertaining giallo worth watching .
Short and sweet and effective little sci-fi effort .	Throughout Britian , people are dying suddenly . Before long , there are very few people left . A handful of survivors hole up in an old inn and formulate their plan for survival , and eventual escape . Although this likable British B picture runs barely over an hour , it packs enough tension and creepiness into its running time to qualify as a good time . Directed with maximum efficiency by Terence Fisher , the man behind some of the great Hammer horror films , it draws you in with a decent , if unoriginal , premise and moves at a respectable pace . About all that contributes to its cheese factor are some silly and quaint looking robots . The actors , led by American Willard Parker , do a good job at maintaining one's interest ; prominent among the supporting cast is genre veteran Thorley Walters . Not only do these survivors have the invading robots to contend with , but some of the victims are turned into unwitting slaves for the robots , shambling along with their eyes turned utterly blank . It's a nice little pre - " Night of the Living Dead " effect that adds to the menace . One standout suspense sequence finds the female lead ( Virginia Field ) trapped inside a building and slowly being encroached upon , by both the robots and the human slaves . A neat , compact end-of-the-world story that really delivers , " The Earth Dies Screaming " ( a good title , if not entirely appropriate ) is worth checking out and truly does make for a good " midnite movie " .
A marvelously frenetic action flick .	The enjoyably laconic Clive Owen is mystery man Mr . Smith , minding his own business when he witnesses crazed assassins trying to take out a pregnant lady . Jumping into the fray , he manages to deliver the baby and kill himself a whole bunch of bad guys . In so doing , he incurs the wrath of maniacal thug Hertz ( Paul Giamatti , who really lets loose ) . In between annihilating a seemingly never-ending assortment of expendable goons , he hooks up with sexy streetwalker D . Q . ( feisty Monica Bellucci ) . Writer / director Michael Davis lets us know quickly enough that this movie isn't going to let realism get in the way of a good time . He impressively delivers a deliciously absurd and deliberately over-the-top festival of violence . ( Smith consistently displays a remarkable amount of ingenuity throughout . ) It's all incredibly stylized and full of attitude , and has the right amount of enjoyably silly lines of dialog as well . It's as effective a send-up of high - body-count escapist action fare as I've ever seen . Plus , it features one hell of a wild sex scene to boot . What I didn't expect was that it would have some rather serious moments , or a message sandwiched between the mayhem , but it all adds up to a gloriously graphic good time . Owen and Giamatti set off sparks as the warring , Tom and Jerry like duo , and Owen shares some good chemistry with Bellucci as well . Prominent character actor Stephen McHattie ( " 300 " , " A History of Violence " ) also has a fairly substantial villainous role that is as tongue - in-cheek as the movie itself . Just to let us know what we're in for , the constantly carrot-munching Smith uses his favorite vegetable to dispatch a goon right at the beginning . In closing , any movie that opens with Nirvana's " Breed " and closes with Motley Crue's " Kickstart My Heart " gets my respect .
A spooky and sinister story .	Music journalist Myles Clarkson ( ever likable Alan Alda ) meets renowned concert pianist Duncan Ely ( Curt Jurgens ) , who happens to be dying . After he passes on , Myles's personality undergoes a drastic change . Myles's wife ( ever gorgeous Jacqueline Bisset ) suspects something awfully creepy is going on , especially since it involves Elys ' provocative , sexy daughter Roxanne ( Barbara Parkins ) , whom she distrusts immediately . Complex but not unduly so , this obviously not too well known chiller could use a little more exposure . It moves a little slowly , but then again , it has a pretty good plot , and there are no interludes which waste time ; every scene has a purpose . For my tastes , it's not particularly scary , although it does exude some menace and atmosphere ; most effective are the various dream sequences , designed and photographed to create a truly surreal effect . Most useful are an unusual Jerry Goldsmith score , far removed from the Latin choruses that he provided for the more widely known Satanic horror flick " The Omen " , as well as a fine cast . Alda , the imposing Jurgens , Bisset , and Parkins are ably supported by Bradford Dillman , William Windom , and Kathleen Widdoes ; seen in a small role is Lilyan Chauvin , whom slasher fans will recognize as The Mother Superior in the tasteless seasonal favorite " Silent Night , Deadly Night " . It's an interesting rare excursion into feature films for Quinn Martin , better known for the many TV series that he produced . Nothing really great but not at all bad , it's an entertaining film with some good moments and an enjoyable resolution .
A gripping little movie about the will to survive .	Busy young couple Susan ( Blanchard Ryan ) and Daniel ( Daniel Travis ) take time for a vacation in a tropical paradise , but when they go on a deep sea dive and get separated from the main group , they find themselves alone in the open ocean , for hours on end . Well , not quite alone . . . before too long they start to get circled by sharks . " Open Water " deserves some credit for basically getting us to stay interested with only two actors on screen for the balance of the picture , and for maintaining a steady feeling of danger . This wouldn't work at all if the two leads weren't likable or sympathetic or interesting enough to command our attention , and Ryan and Travis do an acceptable job in this regard . Director , writer , editor , and cinematographer Chris Kentis emphasizes their isolation at all times , keeping the feeling of unease going especially once the sharks start to be introduced . If you are like me , you will constantly be expecting an attack to happen , and be dreading it . Kentis and wife / fellow cinematographer Laura Lau do a creditable job with a low budget ; both avid scuba divers , their inspiration for this movie was a true story of a couple who had themselves been left behind by a diving boat in the waters of Australia . Enhanced by Graeme Revells ' subtly chilling music , " Open Water " is a rather effective , efficiently made movie that easily rivals anything one might find in a conventional Hollywood film . I thought that it worked quite well , and give it my recommendation .
A spirited comic book adaptation .	Dedicated scientist Alec Holland ( Ray Wise ) is working on a revolutionary formula when sexy government agent Alice Cable ( Adrienne Barbeau ) is sent to watch over him . When arrogant megalomaniac Arcane ( Louis Jourdan ) and his bevy of henchmen step in , poor Alec is doused with his own formula , set on fire , and runs outside to plummet into the swamp . Soon , Alec is reborn as the title character ( now played by stuntman Dick Durock ) . Still in love with Barbeau , he sets out to rescue her from the bad guys ( and she needs a lot of rescuing throughout ) and takes them on . " Swamp Thing " , an adaptation of the cult DC comic , may very well be cheesy stuff , but it's still very likable entertainment . Key to its success is that it's got a lot of heart to go with its goofier moments . The relationship between Alec and Alice is handled very sensitively . However , that's not to say that writer / director Wes Craven ever takes the whole thing too seriously . It also has plenty of very amusing moments . ( For one thing , young Reggie Batts as Jude displays a nice aptitude for deadpan delivery of his lines . ) The monster suits - both Swamp Thing himself and the abomination that Arcane turns into - are a real hoot to look at . On-location filming in South Carolina really helps ; the local atmosphere is very potent . Craven even goes so far as to use comic book style scene transitions , including frequent " wipes " . Harry Manfredini supplies the music score , which sounds awfully close to his compositions for the " Friday the 13th " series at times . It all adds up to a good time . Both Wise and Barbeau are very sincere and very appealing . David Hess , " Krug " in Craven's " The Last House on the Left " , is a gas as Arcane's headband-wearing primary goon , as is Nicholas Worth as the bumbling Bruno . Durock does a fine job of acting under his makeup and suit . But Jourdan is definitely the most fun with his flamboyant portrayal of the villainous Arcane . " Swamp Thing " may not be one of the most notable pictures of Craven's career , but it shouldn't be forgotten , either . It may be lighter in tone than the horror pictures that he has given us , but that's part of its charm . Trivia note : the cut on the original DVD was in actuality the European cut of the film , featuring topless shots of not just Barbeau but some bit players as well . It got pulled from the market , to be replaced by a true PG cut on DVD years later .
" Even when there's no wind , the sand sings . "	Jeff Cooper is Cord , an impetuous fighter who is determined to embark on a journey that will see him face various trials as he seeks out a book full of wisdom guarded by a character named Zetan . A combination of a quest , a martial arts film , and a celebration of Zen philosophy , " Circle of Iron " was the brainchild of the legendary martial artist Bruce Lee , who sadly would not live to see it get made . Scripted by Stanley Mann and acclaimed screenwriter Stirling Sillipant , based on a story by Lee , actor James Coburn ( a student of Lee's ) , and Silliphant , " Circle of Iron " isn't quite like anything I've seen before . Its thoughtful nature and very mystical and spiritual bent help to make it something quite interesting . Those expecting more of a typical action film will not get one . There are , of course , fight scenes that are well staged , and some very bizarre but provocative encounters . The filming location of Bet Shean in Israel gives the movie the best possible look and feel ; Ronnie Taylor's cinematography is superb . And Bruce Smeaton's music score is truly excellent . Beefcake lead Cooper isn't much of an actor , but is fairly engaging nonetheless . The rest of the cast does good work . David Carradine is impressive as he handles no less than four roles . Roddy McDowall , Christopher Lee , and especially Eli Wallach contribute fine cameo appearances . The encounter with Wallach is far and away one of the strangest yet most intriguing sequences in the film . Erica Creer is a real stunner as the young lady that tempts Cord . The movie even manages to work in some humor alongside its serious intentions . Overall , it's well worth watching and pondering and provides some good entertainment .
A dark , moody and enjoyable little chiller .	In Paris , a theater troupe known as " Theatre du Mort " - i . e . , " Theatre of Death " - stages Grand Guignol inspired sketches . Browbeating , tyrannical boss Philippe Darvas ( Christopher Lee , the star attraction of this film and the main reason to watch it ) is particularly attached to rising star Nicole ( Jenny Till , proving she's more than a pretty face with a very intense performance ) . In the meantime , murders done in classic vampire style are plaguing the city . " Theatre of Death " is a nicely done , reasonably engrossing mystery / horror with a nice touch for the macabre . Be prepared for a little dose of the red stuff , although the film-makers really don't make gore the focus here , putting the accent more on atmosphere , suspense , and a stylish look to the film . The decent script is by Ellis Kadison and Roger Marshall , the capable direction by Samuel Gallu . Some shots add an impressive amount of gloominess , as shadows pass over faces , or , in one particular scene , half of Lees ' face is in darkness and one half lit . The mystery element of the film doesn't work out as well ; the identity of the killer doesn't come as too great a surprise . In addition , a little something is lost once Lee is no longer a part of the proceedings , what with the incredible , dominating presence he provides in the early going . Lelia Goldoni , Julian Glover ( this picture does have some trivia value here for featuring two future James Bond villains ) , Ivor Dean , and English stage legend Evelyn Laye are all absolutely fine in support , but this is really Lees ' show . " Theatre of Death " is a fairly solid and spooky , little-known thriller , and a worthy viewing experience , even if it's not altogether memorable . In any event , it has a rather interesting climax and final turn of events .
Very watchable early sci-fi from Roger Corman .	Reasonably entertaining Roger Corman cheapie about dedicated scientist Tom Anderson ( Lee Van Cleef ) , who establishes contact with a monster from Venus and helps it every step of the way . Tom is convinced the monster's arrival can only mean good for the human race , but he couldn't be more wrong . It sends out bat-like creatures that implant control devices in people's necks and make them susceptible to doing the monster's bidding . All that stands in its way is heroic scientist Paul Nelson ( Peter Graves ) . " It Conquered the World " explores the same ideas as " Invasion of the Body Snatchers " ; basically , it deals with the loss of humanity and emotions as individuals begin acting as one for a sinister purpose . It's a good deal of fun , with Graves the perfect stoic hero and Van Cleef doing great work as his misguided colleague . Beverly Garland is quite good as Van Cleef's wife , as she desperately tries to appeal to him to do the right thing ( she's also obliged to utter the truly gut-busting line " So that's what you look like ! You're ugly . . . horrible ! " and does it with an admirably straight face ) . As could be expected , Corman has roles for repertory players Dick Miller and Jonathan Haze as soldiers . The effects are something less than special , but they are good for some major guffaws : the monster is one of the silliest looking things that I've ever seen . It's very funny to watch the actors do all the work as they mime being killed by the thing ! All the same , the movie plays out its alien invasion plot with good pacing , and comes up with some pretty good shocks . It's a fun little B sci-fi movie , over in record time , with a great midnight movie charm going for it . Re-made as " Zontar : The Thing from Venus " in
" The golden rule : he who has the gold makes the rules . "	One of director John Carpenter's more interesting pictures overall has a loner ( the always charismatic wrestling star Roddy Piper ) arriving in L . A . to find a depressed job market and a community known as " Justiceville " where he is able to crash . Soon after his arrival he becomes wise to the actual situation : aliens are already here and are lulling their human counterparts into a state of submission ; their subliminal messages and actual appearances are only visible through special sunglasses . It's up to " Rowdy " Roddy to save the day with the help of Frank ( Keith David , re-uniting with Carpenter six years after " The Thing " ) . Carpenter wrote the screenplay himself , using the pseudonym " Frank Armitage " , and basing it on the story " Eight O'Clock in the Morning " by Ray Nelson . It's a very smart premise and satire of Reagan-era mindless consumerism . The messages are extremely brief and to-the - point : " Consume " , " Marry and Reproduce " , and , most importantly , " Stay Asleep " , while dollar bills now display the phrase , " This is your God . " The film also has characters who inevitably sell out and would prefer to be " on the winning side " , a good way of expressing the notion that there are those who would do anything for comfort and success . And , in the end , it's a good cinematic paraphrase of the influence wielded by big money and special interests . With all of this in mind , it's easy enough to then forgive the movie for becoming ultimately conventional in its final third , turning into a cheesy action movie , and for the ridiculously silly alien make-up . Of course , it's clear that Carpenter's not taking it all too seriously . If a viewer is indifferent to the message in the film , they can at least delight in one of the most hilariously protracted fight sequences ever put on film . Just when you think it's over , it starts up again and goes on for about five minutes and 20 seconds . Carpenter as always provides the film with his own effective electronic score , and paces the film well . Especially impressive are shots of Justiceville with towering office buildings in the background , quite literally illustrating a gap between the financial classes , in a world where the middle class is disappearing and the gap is getting bigger . Piper is an engaging lead with an assortment of amusing one-liners to deliver , particularly a classic involving " chewing bubble gum and kicking ass " . David is solid and a good foil for Piper . Ever-striking Meg Foster does well as the aloof Holly , with other fine supporting and bit performances by George " Buck " Flower , Peter Jason , Raymond St . Jacques , Susan Barnes , John Goff , and Sy Richardson . Producer and first assistant director Larry Franco , a veteran of other Carpenter films , appears on screen as Foster's neighbor . " They Live " is a decent effort from Carpenter that's well worth a look , or re-visit .
Seven Out Of Ten .	This horror thriller was scripted by Ole Bornedal and Steven Soderbergh , based on Bornedal's own 1995 Danish movie " Nattevagten . " Martin Bells ( Ewan McGregor , playing an American reasonably well ) is a law student who takes a job as a night watchman at a spooky morgue . While his outgoing friend James ( Josh Brolin ) tries to goad him into taking chances in life , a serial killer is butchering woman - and Martin eventually falls under suspicion . Above average for the genre , this has a superb cast , and genuine suspense and a good music score . Not quite good enough to make it particularly memorable , but still a good effort . At least it's not overly formulaic or predictable . The invaluable Brad Dourif , once again playing an unappealing character , is the grumpy duty doctor at the morgue and he has a great line when McGregor starts crying wolf : " Can I interest you in something from the ' zine ' family - thorazine ( etc . ) ? " That gave me a good laugh . I gave this one .
Could be better , could be worse .	Based on Stephen King's epic-length bestseller of 1986 ( and my favorite King novel , by the way ) . Seven outcast preteens in the small town of Derry , Maine , gradually realize that a demonic creature is residing underneath their city - and that this thing has been responsible for a rash of child-killings in the city . It most often takes the form of a hideous-looking clown named Pennywise ( Tim Curry ) , luring kids to their untimely deaths . ( Warning : the next sentence could be construed as a spoiler . ) The kids battle the creature , seemingly defeat it , only to find out thirty years later when they are adults , that the creature is still alive - and wants to wreak vengeance upon them . Not a top-drawer King adaptation , but generally speaking , not bad . The film has some major drawbacks : 1 ) So much of the story from the novel is cut out for the film that I'm left wanting more . It's simply too much good storytelling to be told in only two nights . I've thought about it , and seeing as how it is way too much story for any feature film , maybe a ten or twelve-part cable miniseries might have been the way to go . 2 ) I can't help but feel that the film was " watered down " so it could be shown on network , prime-time TV . It's definitely not as all-out scary as the novel . While watching " It " , I'm just constantly reminded of its ' TV-movie sensibilities . This miniseries does generate genuine unease , but , unless Pennywise is on screen , it's hard to be scared by any of it - especially the silly climax , which at least played better on the printed page than when viewed literally on a screen . I was unimpressed by much of the dialog - some of it is just groan-inducing and lame ( example : " Why does it hate so much ? Why is it so mean ? ? ? " ) . Still , I think most people would have to agree , the sequences with Pennywise are often blood-chilling . This is a truly good horror movie character , and Tim Curry plays it for all it's worth . As for the cast , the decision to rely on a bunch of TV veterans doesn't work out too well . I can't help , when viewing " It " now , that Richard ' John Boy ' Thomas is miscast as the adult Bill . ( His attempt at stuttering is sometimes laughable . ) Richard Masur , John Ritter , and Tim Reid are all okay , but Dennis Christopher makes the adult Eddie too much of a nerd , if you ask me . Harry Anderson gets the funniest lines . The kids playing the young Losers all do reasonably well , and they include the late Jonathan Brandis , Seth Green , and Emily Perkins of the " Ginger Snaps " series . As a matter of fact , these young actors make the Losers a more likable bunch as kids than they are as adults . Filmed in Vancouver , which has doubled for Maine in quite a few King adaptations . A couple of familiar Canadian actors turn up in small roles , notably William B . Davis - the cigarette-smoking man of ' The X-Files ' - as a teacher . Rated against other King adaptations , I think this deserves a seven at most .
Sweet , amiably goofy comedy for the family .	Wesley Eure is young inventor Brian Foster , who's invented a new crime busting security device in the form of a robot dog , the titular " C . H . O . M . P . S . " ( It stands for Canine HOMe Protection System ) . C . H . O . M . P . S . , who's been modeled after Brian's real dog Rascal , can do just about anything ; he's got enhanced speed , strength , X-ray vision , and the like . It's just the thing to save his boss Ralph Norton's ( Conrad Bain ) security company . Naturally , a slimy competitor , Gibbs ( Jim Backus ) wants the edge so he tries to get his hands on the secret . This is the kind of thing that's just too hard to resist . It's got plenty of slapstick ( Chuck McCann and Red Buttons play a great pair of bumbling idiots ) , an upbeat attitude , an engaging cast , and enough good laughs to keep one entertained . The energetic disco-style music gets repetitive but is undeniably catchy ; the story is straightforward , and the dogs themselves are absolutely adorable . In one thoroughly odd but side-splitting touch , there's another dog in the film ( named " Monster " ) whose thoughts we actually get to hear ; both his dialog and the performer doing the voice are priceless . In fact , he even utilizes some mild profanity and his last words end the film on a positively gut busting final note . Eure and the cute Valerie Bertinelli are very likable young leads , and their veteran supporting cast plays the material with all the gusto they can muster . Larry Bishop , Hermione Baddeley , Robert Q . Lewis , and Regis Toomey also co-star . A rare theatrical live-action venture for the cartoon-creating team of Hanna & Barbera ( ' The Flintstones ' , ' Scooby-Doo ' , ' The Smurfs ' , and so on ) , " C . H . O . M . P . S . " is agreeably silly stuff . I know it left me with a smile on my face .
Not all that bad as remakes go .	Latest entry in this ongoing series pretty much condenses the plots of the first few entries in the series . The legend of Jason and his vengeance-crazed mother is related as briefly as possible ( she gets barely any screen time ) in order to get to this film's plot , such as it is . After our beloved goalie-masked icon dispatches a group of typically brainless kids , the disappearance of one of them , Whitney ( Amanda Righetti ) , spurs her brother Clay ( Jared Padalecki of the TV series ' Supernatural ' ) to mount a search for her . He comes across another group of hedonistic teens , one of whom , Jenna ( Danielle Panabaker ) is nice enough to want to help him . Michael Bay , his company Platinum Dunes , and director Marcus Nispel ( all of them having brought " The Texas Chain Saw Massacre " series into the 21st century ) aren't out to re-invent the wheel here . They pretty much give what any fan of the " Friday " series could hope for . Liberal doses of sex ( with the attractive female cast members gladly baring their breasts ) , a full-steam-ahead pace , and a flair for sadistic murder set pieces . This particular Jason , played for major physical menace by stuntman / actor Derek Mears ( " The Hills Have Eyes II " ) , is fast and absolutely ferocious . He doesn't just use sharp weapons , either ; in one inspired scene , he roasts something other than marshmallows over a campfire . It's got plenty of loud jump scares , maintains its intense forward momentum until its rousing conclusion , and follows the proved formula of sex + violence right down the line . Production design , art direction , and set decoration go hand in hand with the murky cinematography to give the film a good look , and the gore is well done . I had a fairly good time with this and I imagine so would the majority of " Friday " fans .
Only In New York !	Remake of 1970 Neil Simon-scripted movie about an older couple ( Steve Martin , Goldie Hawn ) whose children have moved out . They travel to New York City so he can go to a job interview - and they endure practically every sort of misfortune imaginable . I definitely liked this one because I actually laughed a fair bit and I like it that the film doesn't overstay its welcome or go TOO far over-the-top . Top-notch comedy cast is a strong asset , with a well-cast John Cleese ( as a hotel manager with a kinky secret ) an enjoyable scene-stealer . Some people may find it amusing that one of the " Sex and the City " stars , Cynthia Nixon , plays a woman in a support group who is a sex addict ! Trivia alert : that's Hawn's actual son , Oliver Hudson ( star of a TV series that I think is called " My Guide to Becoming a Rock Star " ) , playing her and Martin's son in the airport scene . It's been a while since I've seen the 1970 original and I can't remember if I really liked it or not . Anyway , this is a decent comedy and I'm going to give it .
Fairly decent thriller .	After a tryst , sexy boss's wife Sylvia Wentworth ( French beauty Isabelle Huppert ) witnesses an assault on Denise Connelly ( Elizabeth McGovern ) by creepy predator Carl Henderson ( Brad Greenquist ) . Since she would be revealing the tryst by coming forward with the information , she lets lover Terry Lambert ( Steve Guttenberg ) come forward on her behalf . After his lies are revealed in court , he's forced to play amateur detective to both stop the killer and clear himself . An earlier credit for Curtis Hanson , who went on to make critically acclaimed films like " L . A . Confidential " and " 8 Mile " , he scripted from Anne Holdens ' novel . I found that it was a pretty engrossing movie , and it actually managed to keep me interested for the better part of two hours . The time went by fairly quickly , which is an indication of how entertaining it is . It's not always credible , of course , and not all of the acting is that impressive ( Guttenberg is miscast , and Huppert is awkward ) , but it was an entertaining movie regardless of its flaws . A raft of familiar faces fill out supporting and bit parts ( Paul Shenar , Carl Lumbly , Frederick Coffin , Maury Chaykin , Jodi Long , Leon Rippy ) , although the clear standout is playwright and actor Wallace Shawn , as the smart defense attorney who knows how to destroy Lamberts ' credibility . Nicely photographed by Gilbert Taylor , whose highly impressive credentials include " Dr . Strangelove " and " Star Wars " . As Hitchcock-wannabe cinema goes , it's not bad at all ; good for a night's viewing .
Decent B picture with good work by Rondo Hatton .	The distinctively featured character star Rondo Hatton - his face disfigured by the disease acromegaly - gets a starring role as a revenge-crazed murderer dubbed " The Creeper " by the press . Once a handsome if hot-tempered football star by the name of Hal Moffat , a lab accident happened to mar his appearance . Now he's out to strike back at those he blames for his situation , while forming a tender friendship with a blind girl , Helen Paige ( the wonderfully beautiful Jane Adams ) , who is therefore not bound by any fear of his appearance . Were it not for Hattons ' presence ( sadly , this was his last picture ) , this would still be watchable but pretty forgettable . The plot is pretty standard . Supporting performances are acceptable , and the music has a familiar ring to it . There are also points , such as the gin rummy sequence , where the picture ought not to be taken too seriously . It's well paced ( running just under an hour long ) and reasonably entertaining , but Hattons ' poignant presence makes it something different . This is no one-dimensionally evil boogeyman , but a man blinded by the same temper that afflicted him in better days . One can get the sense of the kind and sensitive person that Hatton was . While it may have been unfortunate that the movie business was too quick to exploit Hattons ' appearance , there's no doubt that he made his mark in cinema . People continue to remember him today , right down to the naming of an award - marking achievement in horror research - after him . Rest in peace , Rondo Hatton .
" You never know what the sea will cough up . "	Indeed . Intriguing tale of modern-day pirates living on a Caribbean island who take journalist Blair Maynard ( Michael Caine ) prisoner - along with his son Justin ( Jeffrey Frank ) , whom they successfully manage to turn against him . These blokes are true leftovers from centuries past , are true primitives , and speak the strangest dialog . This is based on a novel by Peter Benchley , of " Jaws " fame . Benchley scripted himself , fashioning a sometimes nasty adventure that is impossible to take seriously 100 % of the time . Just check out the sequence where the pirates pillage the boat of some drug dealers and you'll see what I mean . In any event , I sure don't see movies like this everyday - or nowadays , for that matter . Surprisingly violent at times , and comical at others , it tells its odd little tale with the assistance of an able cast , all managing to maintain incredibly straight faces . David Warner , as the leader of the tribe , Angela Punch McGregor , Frank Middlemass , Brad Sullivan , and Zakes Mokae co-star , each delivering an amusing performance . Lush island cinematography , stirring Ennio Morricone music , and Albert Whitlock matte shots all qualify as assets as well . Although close to two hours in length , I didn't find it boring at any time , as it moves along rather well , moving towards a very bloody final showdown . Again , you will have to see this to believe it . Yes , I will reiterate that at times it is laughable , but give Benchley credit for his fanciful story . It's still a pretty entertaining piece of work .
Enjoyably bleak and sinister back-of-the-beyond horror .	Scripted by director John Russo from his novel , " Midnight " recounts the sordid tale of teenager Nancy ( Melanie Verliin ) . She just can't catch a break . Her stepfather Bert ( screen legend Lawrence Tierney ) , a cop , is a lustful creep who tries to force himself on her . She hightails it away from home , hitching a ride with basically nice but not exactly innocent buddies Tom ( John Hall ) and Hank ( Charles Jackson ) . Circumstances bring them to the remote residence of a family who turn out to be Satan worshipers all too pleased to have these victims just dropped into their laps . " Midnight " proves to be hard to resist . Russo starts his story with an ominous scene of the Satanists as children , urged on by their domineering mother , to finish off a girl caught in one of their traps . From then on , the story follows Nancy , Tom and Hank as they set off on their journey , with a stop off for a grocery robbery and a warning from traveling Reverend Carrington ( Bob Johnson ) . It's a watchable enough story with likable enough characters and passable acting . It does , admittedly , take a while after that opening for the more horrific elements to come back into play . And Russo does well at switching the film's gears into a more harrowing quality , delivering some pretty potent and disturbing scenes ( the victims are forced into cages much too small for them , for one thing ) . The Satanists come off as very menacing , with seemingly no hope in sight for any of their victims along the way . Tierney's character , however , in an appreciably twisted turn of events , becomes an unlikely savior for Nancy . Verliin does alright in the lead role , with a very amusing turn by Tierney as the creep turned rescuer . John Amplas ( star of George Romero's " Martin " ) , Greg Besnak , Robin Walsh , and David Marchick are all quite suitably off-putting ( the massive Marchick comes off as both comical and scary ) as the young , antagonistic family unit . The rural Pennsylvania locations create that all-important sense of true isolation , with sometimes effective music and an irresistibly cheesy title song that just might have some of you singing along with it . Tom Savini supplies the gore and the loving close-up of a young lady getting her throat slashed is bound to satisfy horror fans . While it does in fact take its time setting up its third act , it does eventually establish a grim , gritty atmosphere and feeling of hopelessness that makes for some effective horror . It's a decent low-budgeter worthy of a look and deserving of more exposure .
Mildly enjoyable .	19-year-old Catherine ( the very fetching Candace Glendenning ) travels with her dad and mom to visit a distant relative , Uncle Alexander ( Michael Gough ) . Dad has an accident while driving and the car ends up catching fire . A traumatized Catherine spends the next few days growing attached to Alexanders ' son Stephen ( Martin Potter ) while experiencing odd and disconcerting visions . The always delightful Gough ( rockin ' an impressively big and bushy mustache ) is actually pretty restrained here . Still , he's one of the best parts of this little bit of British sleaze horror . It's a rather low key movie that plods along and doesn't offer much in the way of horror . The David McGillivray screenplay isn't all that interesting ( it clues us in where this is going too early ) , although it does have its moments . By that I mean it does deliver in the sleaze department . There's appreciable gratuitous nudity and even sexual assault at the outset . The picture is undeniably crude , has an unsurprising ending , and doesn't add up to much once it's over . But , providing you aren't too demanding , it's possible to derive some amusement out of it . Glendenning is an appealing presence , Potter is good as the unhinged Stephen , and the sexy Barbara Kellerman easy enough to watch as the secretary . Norman J . Warrens ' direction here lacks style but is decent enough . And there's some cheap and tacky gore to enjoy . Overall , I wouldn't consider it all that good , but it's watchable enough .
Great poster , endearingly silly movie .	Cheesy sci-fi schlock from the drive-in era , this goofy bit of fun has an unstable rich woman , Nancy Archer ( Allison Hayes ) have a close encounter in the desert , with a giant bald alien . Somehow this eventually causes her to grow to gigantic proportions , and she embarks on a rampage , looking for her philandering , greedy , and coldly calculating husband Harry ( William Hudson ) with single-minded purpose . With laughably inept special effects , amusing and entertaining characterizations ( George Douglas as the sheriff , Frank Chase as the Barney Fife-like deputy , Ken Terrell as Jess the butler ) , and a typical schlock movie music score , it all adds up to a " good " guilty pleasure . Co-starring is the alluring , " bad " , other woman , Honey Parker ( the gorgeous Yvette Vickers , Playboy Playmate of the Month , July 1959 ) , who is another good reason to catch this movie . I had my share of real laugh-out-loud moments ; this movie was fun from beginning to end , although the expected final rampage is actually a long time coming , taking place right at the end . I would have liked to see what other mayhem a 50 foot woman could cause in a big city ( to that end , the poster is a little misleading , but it sure is a great hook ) . Recommended to lovers of so-bad-they're-good movies everywhere .
80 minutes of 100 % pure trash !	" Humanoids from the Deep " ( 1980 ) is a memorably and deliriously sleazy , outrageous , gory , and lively B-level monster movie from none other than B-movie legend Roger Corman . Scientist Susan Drake ( Ann Turkel ) , in the employ of a cannery , has supervised an experiment to " improve " local fish life - but as you can expect everything goes wrong . The result is the creation of a quickly evolving new life form - man-shaped amphibious creatures that slaughter men and dogs and rape women . Director Barbara Peeters took exception to Corman's insistence on adding the graphic rape scenes - as a result , he got rid of her , and brought in Jimmy T . Murakami , who at the time was directing " Battle Beyond the Stars " for Corman , to direct the additional scenes . Once all was said and done , Peeters and co-star Turkel went on to publicly denounce the film . The Humanoids were created and designed by a very young Rob Bottin , who would also wear the Humanoid costume . This movie was also training ground for future film producer Gale Anne Hurd , who was a production assistant here , and composer and eventual Oscar winner James Horner , then just starting out in the business . Obviously , anyone watching this would have to have a tolerance for abundant gore and exploitation , but the film emerges as a genuine treat for you lucky people . As I've said before , it's a very energetic movie and it moves at such a quick pace that's it's over in an hour and twenty minutes . The cast is pretty good , with the late Vic Morrow playing his racist meanie to the hilt . Ventriloquist David Strassman gets the film's biggest laughs as he entices his girl to have sex with him by making his dummy crack silly sex jokes . Followed by a made-for-cable TV remake 16 years later .
A provocative and compelling post-apocalypse tale .	The second film version of Richard Mathesons ' novel , after " The Last Man on Earth " in 1964 with Vincent Price , stars Charlton Heston during his sci-fi phase as Robert Neville , supposedly the last normal man alive after the apocalypse . Out to get him are " The Family " , a group of people that have been mutated by the plague led by the charismatic Matthias ( Anthony Zerbe ) . The picture begins very well as the film-makers successfully create a barren and deserted landscape in L . A . , emphasizing Nevilles ' isolation by pulling the camera back and shooting from above as often as possible . Heston also delivers a fine performance , conveying the sense of loneliness that the character feels . This turns into hope and happiness as he discovers that there are others in the area who have yet to suffer the same fate as The Family , including Lisa ( Rosalind Cash , very appealing here ) , her young brother Richie ( Eric Laneuville ) , their associate Dutch ( Paul Koslo ) and an assortment of children . It's a thoughtful and pretty intelligent end-of-the-world saga , and Heston and Zerbe make for an engaging pair of adversaries . Well shot in Panavision by Russell Metty , the picture moves at a slow and deliberate pace but features some compelling confrontations and has some decent suspense . Ron Grainers ' music is so-so ; sometimes it's quite good , and sometimes it just doesn't work . But , overall , the picture is never less than interesting and it's a good dose of sci-fi fun right up to the conclusion . Soon to come will be the third screen version , " I Am Legend " , with Will Smith .
I'd Like To See This Place Myself !	Leonardo DiCaprio plays Richard , a young American adventurer who is given a map to a secret island paradise off the coast of Thailand . He and a young French couple ( Virginie Ledoyen , Guillaume Canet ) travel there and discover a society of pleasure-seekers who treasure their secrecy . Compelling and interesting material ultimately turns into what I think is an exploration on the lengths people will go to to find / create Utopias - and the lengths they will go to to to keep these places to themselves . It loses a little something in Hour Two when DiCaprio is left to his own devices and starts behaving like a character from " Lord of the Flies . " It also unravels a little at the climax , turning rather unpleasant . It's still effective , though , and hard to resist . Tilda Swinton , as the more or less official leader of the society , gives the film's best performance , though DiCaprio isn't too bad himself , and Robert Carlyle leaves a strong impression in his brief role . Best of all is that unbelievable scenery . The film-makers really found the perfect location . All in all , I'm happy I watched this one . I voted to give it .
Better-than-average slasher .	This slasher picture begins as a rural legend told around a campfire about a demented farmer who supposedly butchered his whole family and survived a lynching so that he could return to stalk and kill anyone foolish enough to enter his domain and utter his name above a whisper . " Madman " may have slipped under my own radar for a while , but I can say after seeing it ( more than once now ) , I can say that it is one of the better efforts in its genre . It plays out in a typical enough way , giving in to clichés such as characters splitting up so they can make better victims . That said , this film actually plays it both ways - delivering real suspense as well as grisly splatter - and pulls it off . ( The head under the truck hood is undeniably the highlight , although Madman himself gets a pretty good look . ) It's got a hilariously cheesy romantic hot tub scene ( that , believe it or not , bares more male flesh than female ! ) , and interesting touches here and there to prevent it from being merely just another slasher film . James Momel's nighttime cinematography is impressive , with a heavy , heavy accent on the color blue . He helps director Joe Giannone develop some good backwoods atmosphere ; the film really looks good overall and maintains an ominous mood from start to finish . The characters and performances aren't much to speak of , although it must be said that Giannone and co-writer / producer Gary Sales clearly display a sense of humor by naming a character " T . P . " I rather enjoyed Carl Fredericks as Max , although it's nice to see " Dawn of the Dead " female lead Gaylen Ross here , acting under the pseudonym " Alexis Dubin " . Paul Ehlers , making his only film appearance to date ( he also created the title graphic ) , does the appropriate lumbering and grunting as the massive , disfigured Madman Marz . The electronic music score is rather decent ; there's even a catchy little theme song for the movie sung at the opening and over the closing credits . " Madman " is overall an amusing summer camp slasher romp with some good twists and turns , gore and suspense . It adheres to the standard slasher formula with skill and conviction , and is fun to watch .
Not bad , but I've basically seen it before .	This gory horror movie - which advertisements continue to claim is banned in 31 countries - shares some definite similarities to another gore classic , " Cannibal Holocaust " . It deals with five characters - two lowlife criminal types and three students ( one of whom is actually out to disprove the notion of cannibalism ) - stranded deep in the Amazon and terrorized by the local Indio tribe . It's similar to " Cannibal Holocaust " in that it doesn't shy away from violence against animals as well as against humans , and also meditates on the idea of who the true savages of the Earth are . It even shares a cast member ( Robert Kerman , here playing a police detective ) . Great location filming ( in Colombia ) , jungle atmosphere , and moody music aid in the telling of a nasty adventure that ought to satisfy cravings for bloody mayhem . Bodies are torn open , breasts are ripped apart by hooks , genitals are mutilated , the top of a head is lopped off , and so forth . If you're still interested after reading this , then you will most likely enjoy the movie . The acting is variable , although I thought Giovanni Lombardo Radice was a real scene-stealer in the role of a coke-fueled antagonist . Personally , I wasn't too bothered with the NYC scenes although I won't argue that they don't really add anything . While not as good as " Cannibal Holocaust " , it does deliver its shocks effectively and benefits from the stranding of wholly urban types in such a remote setting . Overall , it's pretty entertaining stuff from a now bygone era of horror .
An interesting , weird , flavorful horror film from one of the masters of Italian horror .	Poetess Rose Elliott ( Irene Miracle ) has a healthy interest in old volumes ; reading a book titled " The Three Mothers " , she lets her curiosity get the better of her . After some surreal experiences , she places a call to brother Mark ( Leigh McCloskey ) , who rushes home in time to witness some strange phenomena himself . There's one thing we all know we can expect from anything by Dario Argento : it's going to be heavily stylish . This film is certainly a triumph of production design and cinematography . It was definitely impressive to look at , with a rich assortment of reds and blues . Special effects are generally decent , although to my surprise it wasn't as gory as I'd come to expect after watching " Suspiria " . Argento paces this film slowly and deliberately - perhaps too slowly - but guides us through a subtly menacing scenario where a first time viewer definitely won't know what to expect . It sets a good mood , with some good set pieces , especially one near the beginning that is set under water . Other sequences are impressive for the amount of animals utilized - there's a multitude of cats , rats , and even ants parading across the screen , sometimes attacking people . Characters aren't really fleshed out here - McCloskey's in particular is no more than a cipher - so it's not too disturbing to see them meet nasty ends . It's really all about the visuals here , and Argentos ' mastery of the medium . The music by rock musician Keith Emerson also works fairly well . The finale , however , isn't as satisfying as I would have liked it to be . In my own opinion , it's not as much fun as " Suspiria " , but it's a worthwhile dose of Italian giallo horror just the same . Done in collaboration with Argento's fellow horror icon , Mario Bava , with Bavas ' son Lamberto as the assistant director here .
From the creators of . . . " Howard the Duck " !	Right around the time they co-wrote " American Graffiti " with George Lucas , director Willard Huyck and producer Gloria Katz concocted this low , low budget oddity . A young woman named Arletty ( gorgeous Mariana Hill ) seeks out her father and comes across his empty home which has been stocked full of his rather striking art . Making the acquaintance of Thom ( Michael Greer ) , Toni ( Joy Bang ) , and Laura ( Anitra Ford ) , whom she allows to crash with her , Arletty slowly realizes the true nature of the town of Point Dune . Huyck and Katz don't clue us in where this is going ; while unfortunately I found it on the dull side at times , it's still full of a weird , highly palpable atmosphere . It's full of bizarre encounters and surreal scenes , taking on the true tones of a nightmare at various points . Highlights include the recurring appearance of a creepy rat-munching albino , and the final scenes of the incredibly sexy Ford ( in a grocery store ) and Bang ( in a movie theater ) . The missing fathers ' diary notes are full of portent as is Arlettys ' narration . As well , the fathers ' home is a marvel of eye-catching set decoration , and the empty and forlorn locale automatically warns of nasty things to come . There's a fairly haunting theme song and music score , and periodic doses of gore , although it's never as brutal as one might think . The acting is decent enough , with especially enjoyable cameos by the likes of Royal Dano and Elisha Cook , Jr . It's by no means perfect , but it's a fairly effective little known horror flick worth seeking out for those who like their horror moody and mesmerizing .
Disappointing sequel to " Angel " .	Molly Stewart , played this time around by the very sexy Betsy Russell , is now studying to be a lawyer , having left her street-walking days far behind . Unfortunately , her guardian , Lt . Andrews ( Robert F . Lyons , taking over the role from Cliff Gorman ) , is killed in the line of duty . As one might guess from the title , Angel turns vigilante to strike back at the scum responsible . And she calls upon old friends , like flamboyant former Western actor Kit Carson ( Rory Calhoun ) , landlord Solly ( Susan Tyrrell ) , and Yo-Yo Charlie ( Steven M . Porter ) , to do so . My major criticisms with this sequel are 1 , too much silliness , and 2 , not enough sleaziness . For a film that is supposedly exploitative in nature , this film doesn't often go very far . There's no sex and one pair of bare breasts on display . There's a fair amount of violence , but even some of it comes off as overly comedic , as when one goon goes sliding down a wet hallway and crashes through a window . Some viewers may well take note that the film doesn't entirely shy away from ugliness , however , as at one point a baby's life is threatened . In any event , director Robert Vincent O'Neill , another holdover from the first film , marches this watchable enough bit of junk through its routine plot towards its inevitable ending . The primary pleasure in watching " Avenging Angel " is seeing a bunch of familiar faces from B movies on display . The main cast is certainly enjoyable ; having such a bunch of unlikely , quirky vigilante heroes take center stage has some appeal . While I kind of prefer the bitter , hard-edged cynicism of Donna Wilkes in the first film , Russell is still quite easy to watch . Calhoun and Tyrrell add much unsubtle comedy relief . Barry Pearl is fairly femme in his role as the gimmick-laden " Johnny Glitter " , but doesn't overdo it either . What is truly amazing is seeing a distinguished veteran such as Ossie Davis in such a film ; his presence is incongruous , but still welcome . The cast also includes Frank Doubleday , a heavy in the John Carpenter films " Assault on Precinct 13 " and " Escape from New York " , and Paul Lambert as a son-and-father pair of criminal masterminds , Tim Rossovich and Ross Hagen as thugs , Hoke Howell as a desk clerk , Liz Sheridan as a nurse , and Robert Tessier as a tattoo artist . Even if disappointing in some ways , " Avenging Angel " is still a reasonably entertaining and very 80's style experience .
A reasonably tense and enjoyable political thriller .	U . S . president Adam Scott ( Hal Holbrook , solid as always ) makes a trip to Toronto where he is promptly kidnapped by terrorist Roberto Assanti ( an effectively smug and creepy Miguel Fernandez ) and confined to a van that's rigged to explode . But Secret Service agent Jerry O'Connor ( a fine William Shatner ) is on the case . O'Connor has some obstacles in his path , such as a weak vice president ( Van Johnson ) and an unbearably arrogant CIA agent ( Gary Reineke ) who would rather be in charge . " The Kidnapping of the President " gets points from me for being a Canadian made picture that's actually set in Canada , as opposed to having one of its cities substitute for an American one . It's a pretty engrossing picture , entertaining all the way through , with a sufficient amount of tension ( especially the conclusion which falls back on the time-honored plot point of " beating the clock " ) and a decent plot . ( Richard Murphy wrote the screenplay , based on a novel by Charles Templeton . ) It also manages to get a fair number of Toronto locations on screen . It's sometimes humorous ( Scott has a wonderfully dry wit ) , to boot . The incredible cast of big names is a big plus , with each of them showing consummate professionalism . It's particularly interesting to see Ava Gardner playing the vice president's calculating wife . Also doing good work are Elizabeth Shepherd as the First Lady , Cindy Girling as Assanti's accomplice , Maury Chaykin as another accomplice who turns out to be a little bit of a bumbler , and Michael J . Reynolds as police chief MacKenzie . Popping up in small parts are such familiar faces as Sully Boyar , Jackie Burroughs , and Michael Fairman . Overall , it's a fun movie that offers good thrills and good acting , with a music score that comes up with a few neat spins on " Hail to the Chief " . It's not destined to go down as one of the great examples of its genre , but it's fairly slick and polished entertainment just the same .
Good fun for genre fans .	Dr . John Pierre ( Vincent Ball ) gets sent to a particular prison after being falsely accused of medical heresy . The man in charge of the prison , Dr . Callistratus ( Sir Donald Wolfit , made up to resemble Bela Lugosi ) , believes that as a fellow man of medicine , John will be able to help with his blood experiments . Callistratus is assisted by a deformed hunchback named Carl ( Victor Maddern ) , with an assortment of sadistic guards and nasty attack dogs at his disposal . This is a good if not great horror movie done in the classic Hammer Studios style . Effective opening sequences lead to a reasonably engrossing if not terribly surprising plot , courtesy of veteran genre scribe Jimmy Sangster , whose credits of course include many Hammer films . ( Incidentally , the title is ultimately misleading , for anybody expecting more of a typical vampire tale . ) The look of the movie is great , with cinematography credited to producer Monty Berman and fine music by Stanley Black . Brit beauty Barbara Shelley plays the love interest to John , who attempts to find out her lovers ' fate by entering the prison under false pretenses . She's good , as are William Devlin as the prisoner Kurt , Andrew Faulds as the brutal chief guard Wetzler , and Bryan Coleman as the slimy Herr Auron . Other familiar faces like John Le Mesurier and Bernard Bresslaw have small roles . But Wolfit dominates the proceedings in a flamboyant performance as the maniacal and determined antagonist . Overall , it's very routine , but it's executed and acted well enough and is certainly colorful to look at . I'd rate this as a decent if uninspired picture for those who like to seek out the less popular entries in this genre .
Fun and engaging low , low-budget schlock .	In a Florida swamp , the locals are starting to disappear . What could be the culprit ? It's all right there in the title . Stoic , hunky game warden hero Steve Benton ( Ken Clark ) , with the assistance of girlfriend Nan Greyson ( Jan Shepard ) and her father ( Tyler McVey ) sets out to investigate what we in the audience already know . Executive produced by Roger Corman and produced by his brother Gene , this A . I . P . flick is not all that bad for its type of film . Director Bernard L . Kowalski establishes the sense of danger and a chilling mood right from the get-go , crafting a tight and trim little sci-fi / horror flick clocking in at just over an hour . The level of atmosphere is right up there , as well . Actor Leo Gordons ' script is amusing , with some decidedly goofy lines here and there . Best of all is the scene in the underwater cave with the monsters approaching their victims and then chowing down on them ; this scene is surprisingly graphic and nasty for a 1950's film . In addition to our likable leads , 1950's era hottie Yvette Vickers ( the mistress in " Attack of the 50 Ft . Woman " ) lights up the screen as Liz , the dissatisfied wife of burly store owner Dave Walker ( a solid Bruno Ve Sota ) who likes turning on the sex appeal any chance she gets . Gene Roth is hilariously surly as an incredulous sheriff . The monsters themselves may be on the blatantly cheesy side , but they ultimately add to the appeal of the film . And , basically , that's really what it's all about . It's just fun , plain and simple ; aside from yet another dig at the advent of atomic energy with a perfunctory possible explanation for the creatures ' existence , this is extremely unpretentious , engaging nonsense .
Decent ' 70's drive-in fare .	The plot here is standard enough stuff : small town football hero " Poke " Jackson ( an amiable Timothy Bottoms ) arrives back in his home town after a five year stint in prison . The crooked sheriff Duke ( Bo Hopkins , in a standard type of role , but doing a solid job ) may have had something to do with that . He's also claimed Pokes ' girl Mary Lee ( Brit beauty Susan George , doing a creditable Southern accent ) , now taking care of Kevin , the son that Poke sired . What we do know for sure is that Duke is behind the assassination of a congressional hopeful , and Poke is a witness . Duke spends the rest of the picture trying to take good ol ' Poke down . Director / actor Jack Starrett , a specialist in this kind of ' 70's fare , does typically good work . The picture moves at a pretty consistent pace ; it's touching at times ( the relationship between Poke and Mary Lee is nicely handled ) and humorous at others . Best of all is the action-oriented climax , which includes some mighty fine vehicle stunts . A solid supporting cast gives it all they've got : Morgan Woodward as crooked fat cat C . J . Crane , John Karlen and Clay Tanner as the deputies Lenny and Junior , Art Hindle and Hank Rolike as Pokes ' good buddies Boogie and Cleotis , and last but never , ever least , the ever endearing George " Buck " Flower , as the hayseed " relative " who gives the heroes a lift ( as well as giving the picture a lift ) late in the game . Fans of the drive-in oriented B pictures of yesteryear should enjoy it . It's an entertaining bit of " hicksploitation " escapism . Starrett has a cameo as the drunken redneck shooting at his own truck at the beginning of the movie .
Guess who's got issues ?	New York mobster Paul Vitti ( Robert De Niro ) is suffering panic attacks and decides he needs to see a psychiatrist . This , of course , poses a major problem for Dr . Ben Sobel ( Billy Crystal ) , who is scared at the thought of counseling a mobster . The fact that the doctor is getting married at the time also happens to be a factor . Essentially a one-joke movie that is certainly funny but nothing really great script-wise . What makes it worth seeing is the chance to see two great performers work together , and believe me , De Niro and Crystal prove to be a good comedy team . Joe Viterelli is also funny as De Niro's consigliere . If you're a fan of the two stars , it's well worth seeing .
Impossible to resist .	In this comic twist on " Carrie " , low-key , nice-guy science whiz Barney Springboro ( Scott Baio ) has an accident in his lab one day , endowing him with powers of telekinesis which affable , scheming best pal Peyton ( Willie Aames ) is most anxious to exploit . Barney finds himself falling for pretty student reporter Bernadette ( Felice Schachter ) while Peyton spends the movie lusting after sexy but snooty Jane ( Heather Thomas ) . It all comes to a head at a hysterical prom dance that earns the movie its R rating . I think that key to the success of this movie for me is likability - both the characters and the movie itself . Even Peyton is not as obnoxious or smarmy as the character could have been . It's an engaging bit of 80's era nonsense , with decent special effects and several laugh-out-loud comedy moments . Examples include baseball coach Dexter ( always lovable Scatman Crothers ) having a marijuana-induced fantasy ( including Albert Einstein ! ) , Barney getting mooned by some dolts in a car and teaching them a lesson , and the utterly dumb but amusing " Exorcist " and ' Star Trek ' send-ups . The script also goes so far as to have Barney recite Travis Bickles ' immortal quote from " Taxi Driver " ! Best of all is the climax ; the film-makers don't fail to give their audience what they've been waiting for , as a number of attractive young ladies get stripped of their clothing . The cast gives it a great effort right down the line : Marya Small and Roger Bowen as Barneys ' uptight mom and bland dad , Robert Mandan as befuddled and love-starved principal Mr . Coolidge , and Sue Ane Langdon as Ms . Burnhart . Familiar faces in small roles include Merritt Butrick , Irwin Keyes , Eddie Deezen , LaWanda Page , and Corinne Bohrer . As shameless , raunchy , and upbeat youth-oriented 80's comedies go , I would consider " Zapped ! " a fine movie of this type . Those cheesy and sentimental ballads got to be a little much for me after a while , but they don't really erase the charm of this fun flick .
Gets enough things right to qualify as a decent slasher .	The depressed mining town of Valentine Bluffs is celebrating its first Valentines ' Day dance in 20 years . Once upon a time , a mine disaster that happened during a dance resulted in a vengeance-crazed murderer named Harry Warden that threatened to strike again if another dance were ever held . And , indeed , young adults die in brutal fashion just as promised . I know I've gone back and forth on this particular slasher , but I now see it for what it basically is : decent slasher fare . It has its assets : a cast full of blue collar young adults rather than teenagers , an impressively bleak locale , a fairly high body count , a streak of nastiness , and a perfectly suitable setting in which to stage the climax . That would be the mine itself , with its filthy , dank , dripping caverns and sense of utter claustrophobia . The movie spends a fair amount of time on a love triangle : T . J . ( Paul Kelman ) , who couldn't hack it in the big city , returns to find that former flame Sarah ( Lori Hallier ) is now dating T . J . s ' friend Axel ( Neil Affleck ) . Fortunately , it manages to stay on track much of the time and moves along fairly well . Other than the climax , one highlight worth mentioning is the terrorizing of Sylvia before her gruesome dispatch . The cast is reasonably good , including Alf Humphreys as obnoxious comedy relief character Howard , Keith Knight as the burly , mustachioed Hollis , pretty Cynthia Dale and Helene Udy as Patty and Sylvia respectively , and especially Larry Reynolds as the mayor and Don Francks as the police chief . Jack Van Evera is hysterical as the clichéd " crazy old guy with a warning " , bartender Happy . I've grown accustomed to " My Bloody Valentine " and now see it as fairly good of its type . At the very least , it's hard to knock a slasher with its own catchy , ominous theme song .
An intelligent and socially conscious picture undeserving of such critical venom .	In this adaptation of the Martin Cruz Smith novel ( co-scripted by Smith himself ) , Nick Mancuso plays Youngman Duran , a policeman with the Maskai tribe in New Mexico , who has more than one problem to contend with . Not only does he have to butt heads with Walker Chee ( Stephen Macht ) , who represents progress and new ways of thinking , but animals and soon people are succumbing to mysterious animal attacks . The culprits are vampire bats , and a Van Helsing of sorts , Phillip Paine ( David Warner , contributing a little class ) arrives to help save the day . Apparently , exterminating this species ( you'd think that would get him in trouble with environmentalists ) is his life's work ! This had to have been an odd choice of material for veteran director / former Academy president Arthur Hiller , known more for mainstream comedies and dramas like " Love Story " . It doesn't offer much in the horror department , however ; only an excellent bat attack set piece where one person is run over by a car and another set on fire is truly harrowing and nasty . It's really more of a social drama , as a modern day ( well modern circa 1979 ) Indian comes to terms with the clash between ages-old superstition and progress . Durans ' scenes with Chee really drive this point home , and Mancuso does a good job of creating a conflicted character . As one might expect from a movie in such a setting , there are some eye-popping vistas to enjoy , capably photographed by Charles Rosher , Jr . Henry Mancini also contributes heavily with a typically fine music score . The special effects by Carlo Rambaldi aren't too shabby , either . A fine supporting cast is worth noting . Kathryn Harrold is a likable and spunky love interest for Mancuso , the ever wonderful Strother Martin ( in , sadly , one of his final roles ) is a delight as an irascible store owner , George Clutesi is captivating as the aged and determined Abner Tasupi , and character actors Donald Hotton , Charles Hallahan , and Pat Corley fill out small roles nicely . It might be worth seeing this one alongside other socially conscious horror films from the same era that also had strong Indian themes , such as " Prophecy " and " Wolfen " . Now , granted , it's not some unsung gem , but I still think it's being judged too harshly . It's simply best if one doesn't look at it as being a pure horror movie , but a drama with some horror elements .
The Debut Of Kane Hodder As Jason	Viewers of this movie are witness to yet another Jason resurrection when an emotionally unstable teenager ( Lar Park Lincoln ) who accidentally killed her father years ago returns to Crystal Lake and inadvertently releases Jason from his watery tomb . Everybody in the cast is doomed . . . An " F13 " entry that runs hot and cold . At times it's pretty bad , with characters and dialog that are not merely aggravating but infuriating ( and in the case of Dr . Crews ( Terry Kiser ) , reprehensible ) . Yet , the idea of a female hero with telekinesis proving to be more than a match for Jason is definitely worthy . Yes , it's a high concept " F13 " entry : " Carrie Vs . Jason " would certainly have been an apt subtitle for the movie . Stuntman Kane Hodder , in his first of four appearances as Jason , proves to be the best of the Jason performers due to real forcefulness and physical menace in the role . The showdown between Tina ( the heroine ) and Jason isn't quite earth-shattering but it does prove to be worth sticking around for . The " F13 " movies were getting more ethnically diverse ( starting in Part V ) but still weren't quite what you could call politically correct . By the way , there is one incredibly stupid continuity error that I fail to comprehend : in Part VI , the " Crystal Lake " area was renamed " Forest Green " . Now it's called " Crystal Lake " again ? [ Note the name on a road sign . ] What did they do , change the name back ? ! ! ? Despite its faults , it's a respectable series entry overall .
Early Walter Hill film that needs a little more recognition .	Ryan O'Neal is the title character , an expert getaway driver who is relentlessly pursued by intense detective Bruce Dern . One thing you'll notice is that these characters aren't given names , a unique touch in what is actually sort of a low-key character study . It does have the obligatory chase scenes that are admittedly very well done , but these are actually not all that numerous . Overall , I would definitely characterize this film as an action / caper film with a difference . I actually couldn't believe how subtle it was at times , yet it sort of drew me in anyway . O'Neal manages to overcome what seems like miscasting ( is he or is he not one of the most " preppy " looking criminals you've ever seen ? ) and delivers an acceptable performance , although Dern really takes center stage here . French beauty Isabelle Adjani is the " player " who is an acquaintance of both men . This film sure isn't much like the in-your-face , explosions - constantly - going - off action films of today , and it's a nice reminder that films of this nature don't have to have tons of technical gloss and can be character-driven and still work . Enjoyably old-fashioned little film .
An excellent vehicle for Peter Cushing .	A skull purported to be that of the infamous Marquis de Sade makes its way into the possession of Christopher Maitland ( Peter Cushing ) , a writer with a healthy interest in all things macabre . Despite the grave warnings of his friend Sir Matthew Phillips ( Christopher Lee ) , Maitland finds himself obsessing over the skull , which seems to wield a mighty influence on those in its presence , compelling them to commit suicide or murder . This overlooked little Amicus production is acted and directed by old pros of the horror genre . It unfolds at a slow and steady pace , little by little increasing the amount of tension until an incredible climax that's very much a showcase for Cushing . Taking place largely without dialog , it focuses on the actor as he believably conveys pure terror . Respectable atmosphere generated by moody photography is a highlight of this film , as well as the efforts of a superior British cast . It's particularly delightful to watch longtime colleagues Cushing and Lee in their scenes together , maintaining a good working chemistry as always , whether playing friends or foes . Patrick Wymark is solid in support as Marco , although Michael Gough and Patrick Magee are wasted in unfortunately small roles ; Magee in particular is barely seen . The skulls ' P . O . V . shots come off as gimmicky at first , but take on a sort of power the more that they are used , as we watch through the skulls ' eyes Cushings ' descent into madness . Lighting also eventually becomes a key factor . A commendable exercise in psychological horror , " The Skull " is an entertaining horror film made with skill and very well acted . It's worth a look for devotees of the genre .
A fairly good little horror film .	Heather ( Lesleh Donaldson ) visits grandmother Maude ( Kay Hawtry ) , who's converted her late husbands ' funeral home into a motel . Heather helps Maude with assorted odd jobs , while falling for affable local young hunk Rick ( Dean Garbett ) . Meanwhile , some of Maudes ' guests are being murdered , there's a secret in the motels ' cellar , and eerie whispering can be heard in the night . Heather and Rick end up deciding to probe the mystery . If one is going to think of this movie as a slasher , it's definitely one of the old-school variety . The body count is pretty low , and the accent is much more on maintaining a solidly spooky tone and atmosphere than indulging in grisly violence . ( The films ' few victims aren't teenagers , either . ) The tone even becomes wistful at times , particularly as it pertains to Ruth , who really seems to live in the past . We even get a few flashbacks , showing differing perspectives on the character of the late grandfather . It doesn't work so well as a mystery , but there is a certain fun in getting to the reveal . The influence of " Psycho " does weigh very heavily on " Funeral Home " , but if one is going to borrow ideas , they might as well borrow from the best . ( One interesting touch is that the ultimate exposition is delivered not during the film , but over the closing credits . That's something I haven't seen before . ) Director William Fruet takes his film very seriously , and gives it a genuinely eerie quality , helped immensely by Jerry Fieldings ' excellent music , and early work by the reliable veteran cinematographer Mark Irwin . The very good cast includes Stephen Miller as the now-clichéd character of the " creepy " guy on the periphery of the action ( in this case , a handyman ) , Alf Humphreys ( who went on to play Howard in the slasher " My Bloody Valentine " ) as the young eager beaver deputy , guest star Barry Morse as Mr . Davis , Harvey Atkin as a randy and ill-fated salesman , and Jack Van Evera ( who also would appear in " My Bloody Valentine " , as " Happy " ) as the grandfather in the flashbacks . The incredibly lovely and appealing Donaldson , who had smaller roles in other early 80's genre fare as " Happy Birthday to Me " , " Curtains " , and " Deadly Eyes " , here gets her shot at being a legitimate lead , which she handles quite capably . It's overall an effective low-budget horror film that I think more people ought to check out . It does have its pluses .
A hero who faints ! I love it !	Washington Irving adaptation , given typically arresting Tim Burton touches , about NYC-based constable Ichabod Crane ( Johnny Depp ) who is sent to upstate New York to investigate a series of decapitation killings . The culprit is a spirit known as " The Headless Horseman " who comes out at night , rides a big black horse , and brandishes a mean sword . Depp is fun and funny as Crane in this horror / action / thriller with fantastic Gothic flavor : it has some of the most fabulously creepy sets and photography you're likely to see in a film of this kind . I thought that it was exciting and thrilling , even chilling , even if I wasn't completely SCARED . Depp is well supported by a superior cast of British and American actors , Danny Elfman contributes another of his great scores , and the special effects are good . Overall , there is much to like about " Sleepy Hollow " . Christopher Walken has a cameo as the previous incarnation of the ghostly killer , and stuntman / actor Ray Park ( whom you may also know as " Darth Maul " in " Star Wars Episode I : The Phantom Menace " and " Toad " in " X-Men " ) is the one playing " The Headless Horseman " in stunt sequences . It's also great to see to see horror legend Christopher Lee in a pre-credits cameo ; Martin Landau has an uncredited , non-speaking cameo right at the beginning . I definitely recommend " Sleepy Hollow " .
Does all of this seem just a little bit bizarre ?	Police detective Tom Beck ( Michael Nouri ) is partnered with subtly strange FBI agent Lloyd Gallagher ( Kyle MacLachlan ) as they go after formerly placid ordinary people who are all of a sudden going on violent - and I do mean VIOLENT - crime sprees . What's really behind all of this ? The less you know going in , the better ! A knockout of a thriller , this potent little gem crisscrosses the science-fiction , horror , and buddy-cop action genres and does so in high style and with good humor . Some of those lines in the script are actually pretty good ! Nouri and MacLachlan work reasonably well together , and are supported by a non-stop gallery of familiar character faces . The special effects are just fine , although in terms of music I actually liked the songs chosen more than the actual music score . What is especially effective is a brutal opening robbery scene that leads to a very intense high-speed car chase , one of the better ones that I've seen . This was director Jack Sholder's impressive follow-up to his direction of " A Nightmare on Elm Street 2 : Freddy's Revenge " . If you're looking for something good that you may have over-looked before , I would definitely recommend this . Written by screenwriter / producer / occasional director Jim Kouf , billed for whatever reason as Bob Hunt ( he also used this alias for 1982's " The Boogens " ) .
Effectively nasty and shocking stuff .	In this fusion of ideas from " Frankenstein " and " Freaks " , Donald Pleasence plays Prof . Nolter , a typical mad scientist . Nolters ' big deal is his reverence for plant life , especially that which has predatory qualities , like the venus flytrap . His ultimate mission is to create a man-plant hybrid . Assisting him is deformed Lynch ( Tom Baker of ' Doctor Who ' fame ) , a towering thug who also works with a circus freakshow ; Lynch , who feels only revulsion towards his fellow freaks , desperately wants to be cured of his own mutation and does all of Nolters ' dirty work in exchange for an ongoing empty promise . Utilizing several real-life freaks such as an " alligator lady " , a " frog boy " , and the memorable " Popeye " , as well as some crude but still pretty effective makeup effects , this movie succeeds as a grim and gruesome shocker . There's some eye-catching time-lapse photography , and other assorted interesting visuals . Granted , I thought the pacing was too slow and the movie often too talky , but it's got a real edge to it ; the victims definitely suffer mightily . The highly offbeat music score is another good touch . Pleasence unfortunately isn't as much fun as he usually is ; he doesn't seem to have a lot of life in him in this one . Baker is rather remarkable as he acts through his heavy makeup . The supporting cast is underwhelming ; Brad Harris in particular is just plain dull as Brian . The girls at least are lovely ; kudos to Julie Ege for her bathtub scene . In the same way as " Freaks " , the sideshow performers emerge as more humane than those " normals " that surround them . Overall , I found it to be an agreeable B flick with its fair share of twisted moments .
I'm Impressed .	This is a documentary about the sport of wrestling , the men and women who do it , and WHY they do it . Three men , in particular , are profiled : " Jake The Snake " Roberts , Mick " Mankind / Cactus Jack / Dude Love " Foley , and Terry Funk . This was particularly impressive for me because I'm not myself a wrestling fan ( although I HAVE watched it sometimes ) and it still won me over . I liked hearing all these insights into these wrestlers ' minds and seeing what they are like outside the ring . Those of you who may already have pre-conceived notions of what wrestlers are like may be surprised to see that some of them are intelligent , soft-spoken , and humanistic when outside the ring . Gets a little too sad , though , when it focuses on the horrid relationship Roberts has with his family , and how he essentially became like his father . Ultimately , this is a winner . You might like it even if you don't watch wrestling . I'm giving it .
Excellent !	It is now 1938 and Indiana Jones ( Harrison Ford ) sets off on a new adventure - this time , to find and rescue his professor father ( Sean Connery ) who disappeared while on a quest to locate the Holy Grail . A noticeable improvement over part two ; while not quite as good as the first movie , it's still adrenaline-pumping , intriguing entertainment , with nary a dull moment . Best part of the movie is the chemistry between Ford and Connery , who make a convincing father-and-son duo ( despite being only 12 years apart in real life ) . They play off each other well and it's the strained relationship between Indy and his father that provides the movie with some of its more interesting moments . We even get to see Indy as a young man in the opening sequence , and the late River Phoenix does an admirable job in the role . Once again , there is a sequence designed to provoke a reaction among the more squeamish viewers ; in the first movie , it was snakes , in the second , it was insects , here it's rats . GROSS ! This is a worthwhile action-adventure that holds up as a solid example of its genre .
Director Bryan Singer follows up " The Usual Suspects " with this creepy movie .	Based on a novella from Stephen King's 1982 collection " Different Seasons " , " Apt Pupil " is about a very bright teenager named Todd Bowden ( Brad Renfro ) who , after studying the Holocaust in school , comes to realize that an aged former Nazi war criminal is residing in his own town . He confronts the man , Kurt Dussander ( Ian McKellen ) but instead of turning him in , agrees to keep his mouth shut in return for hearing all of Dussander's wartime atrocities . " Apt Pupil " is the kind of film that works because it's fascinating in spite of itself . It's a full-bore examination of human evil , not to mention , as Singer puts it , " adolescent curiosity " . As such , it's an understandably unpleasant story . McKellen ( who worked for Singer again in the first two " X-Men " movies ) is truly brilliant because he really becomes this character . Renfro also does a creditable job of getting inside his character's head . There are other good performers in this film as well - Elias Koteas , Bruce Davison , Joe Morton , James Karen , et al , but it's essentially a two character story - a battle of wills between two depraved individuals . The ending is kind of a comedown after everything we've already seen - I think it's a little weak , too , but the way that King's novella ended might have been deemed too controversial for some to take . Highlight moments include Todd's coercion into having Dussander don an imitation Nazi costume , and the moment of revelation in a hospital when a minor character recognizes Dussander for who he is . Both very chilling . " Apt Pupil " is overall a well-crafted movie and a well-told story . It oozes some truly pervasive menace , and is not the kind of film that can easily be dismissed .
Forget " Lake Placid " and see this movie instead .	12 years after a pet alligator is flushed into the sewers , it becomes a ravenous giant after feeding on dead dogs that had been injected with a growth hormone . It goes on to terrorize the city of Chicago - both under the streets and at street level . Dedicated cop ( Robert Forster ) teams up with reptile expert ( Robin Riker ) to try to stop it . Spirited and exciting B-movie from almost a quarter century ago . Written by the great John Sayles ( based on his and Frank Ray Perilli's story ) , the film benefits from better-than-usual dialog and memorable in-jokes . Not a horror comedy , but more a horror movie with a sense of humor . Despite all of the gore on hand , the film manages , like the Sayles-scripted " Piranha " , to avoid being very unpleasant . It's all in fun , although the R rating should be taken seriously . Forster is well cast in the lead , and the supporting cast benefits from the presence of old pros like Michael V . Gazzo , Dean Jagger , Henry Silva ( getting some good laughs as a big game hunter with an ego ) , and Jack Carter . Highlight is an energetic climax where the giant gator wreaks havoc at a wedding . " Alligator " is actually a gem of a B-movie : good entertainment that deserves to be better known . It's short and sweet with a fantastic , fearsome monster , brought to life by reasonably convincing special effects . If you don't think you've ever seen a good giant-reptile-on-the-loose movie , give this one a try and see what you think .
Stallones ' second triumphant return to an iconic role .	Sylvester Stallone once again plays the role of John Rambo , in which Rambo now works as a longboat operator ( as well as a snake collector ) in Thailand . Some missionaries appeal to him to transport them to war-torn Burma , where the maniacal Burmese military mercilessly slaughter the peaceful Karen tribe . When the missionaries ( surprise , surprise ) get captured by the military , a team of mercenaries is hired to extract them , with Rambo once again fulfilling transportation duties . However , he decides that his responsibility won't end there , and joins the mercenaries in an incredibly violent conflict . Stallone really deserves a lot of credit for this one . This being his first direction of a " Rambo " series entry , he uses it to call attention to the real-life conflict in the region . He also gives it a psychological quality in that Rambo needs to be convinced that people can make things change , and also finally comes to terms with who he is and what he does . That's really a great way of bringing the series full circle . He also delivers over-the-top action movie goods in a major way . I can't remember the last action movie that I watched that was this relentlessly gruesome . Bodies explode and get chopped up , heads get lopped off , you name it , he comes up with a way to have a human being die violently . It was extremely enervating and a nice return to the old days of action movies with very high body counts . The energy level is high enough to cater to any attention span . I could have done without some of the sped-up action and wild camera movement , but I can't deny that this is one of the most visceral movies to come along in a long time . As an actor , he settles comfortably back into the old role , with some acceptable supporting performances . Graham McTavish as Lewis really overdoes it , but he was still very amusing doing so . I've always been a big series fan and this was a treat for me that this ( final ? ) entry in the series finally happened . The majestic Rambo theme by the late , great Jerry Goldsmith got me right back into the spirit of things , and it was also poignant to hear archive audio of Richard Crenna , the late actor who played Col . Trautman throughout the series ( his posthumous final movie credit ) . This is a wild and nasty ride and should be a real delight for action fans everywhere .
Typically fine anthology work from Amicus .	Amicus serves up another of their deliciously , ghoulishly fun horror anthologies in this four-story chiller from " Psycho " author Robert Bloch . They each have their own twists , serving as enjoyable punctuation on these nifty little exercises in the macabre . The wraparound story ( which eventually turns into the fourth story , named " Mannequins of Horror " ) sees Dr . Martin ( Robert Powell ) arriving at an insane asylum to interview for a position . He's told by Dr . Rutherford ( Patrick Magee ) that the former head of the asylum , Dr . Star , has gone mad and become a patient . He proposes that Dr . Martin will visit with four of the particularly disturbed patients on the upper floor , and if he can deduce which one is Dr . Star , he will obtain the position . " Frozen Fear " stars sexy Barbara Parkins as Bonnie , having an affair with Walter ( Richard Todd ) . Walter proceeds to get wife Ruth ( Sylvia Syms ) out of the way , but she's been taking voodoo lessons and has a surprise in store for the two lovers . " The Weird Tailor " stars Barry Morse as Bruno , desperate to come up with rent money , who receives an offer from mysterious Mr . Smith ( Peter Cushing ) to make a very unique suit , with very specific instructions to follow . When Bruno goes to Smiths ' place to deliver the suit and collect his money , he discovers the horrific truth about both Smith and the suit . " Lucy Comes to Stay " stars two gorgeous ladies , Charlotte Rampling and Britt Ekland , as Barbara and Lucy respectively . Barbara has come home from a mental hospital stay , and her friend Lucy is now spurring her to escape , insistent that Barbaras ' brother George ( James Villiers ) does not have her best interests at heart . After an escape attempt turns bloody , the true nature of the Barbara-Lucy relationship comes to light . " Mannequins of Horror " prominently features Herbert Lom as Byron , who's fashioning some exquisitely detailed little toys , into one of which he intends to transfer his own soul . As the toy gets loose and goes about a deadly business , Dr . Martin finally thinks he's solved the mystery but turns out to be sorely mistaken . Fun from beginning to end , these neat and nasty little tales are told in tight and trim running times , and each revelation is no less than entertaining . Granted , some of the twists may come off as obvious , but getting to them is still enjoyable . The whole movie adopts a playful approach ; horror veteran Roy Ward Baker directs well and gets wonderful performances out of his star-laden cast . It's also a delightful guessing game for the viewer as well as Dr . Martin ; interactivity is always a nice hook for a movie , and " Asylum " is no exception . Nicely accentuated by Douglas Gamleys ' grandiose music score , it moves along efficiently towards a satisfyingly morbid conclusion . I definitely recommend " Asylum " to fans of the anthology format .
" You have clearance , Clarence . " " Roger , Roger . What's our vector , Victor ? "	When the flight crew of a commercial airliner fall victim to food poisoning , the only one on the plane who can save everybody from disaster is former war pilot Ted Stryker ( Robert Hays ) , who's a neurotic mess , in this spoof of the 1970's " Airport " series from Universal , but which actually takes its biggest inspiration from the 1957 thriller " Zero Hour " . " Airplane ! " is a classic , influential comedy , among the best of its kind . It may be not the first of its kind - when I wrote my original comment , I somehow forgot about earlier Mel Brooks classics like " Young Frankenstein " and " Blazing Saddles " . The film-makers ( Jim Abrahams , David Zucker , and Jerry Zucker ) throw joke after joke at the audience - both verbal and visual , and even when the joke is stupid , it's still worthy of a laugh . There is an impressively high quotient of successful and memorable gags ( I've always loved the " Saturday Night Fever " parody ) , as well as many hilarious quotes . The great cast includes some veteran " straight man " actors ( Lloyd Bridges , Robert Stack , Peter Graves , Leslie Nielsen ) who do marvelous self-parodies , as well as some gag cameos and a number of now-familiar character actors ( Nicholas Pryor , Jonathan Banks , James Hong , and others ) . The three film-makers themselves have bit parts , and the Zucker brothers even throw their mother into the mix ( she's the one having a hard time putting on her makeup ) . Even after many years of watching this movie , it still holds up remarkably well , and for me , that plays a big part in its appeal . Some of the jokes may be dated now , but they are all still funny . Followed by a decent yet inferior sequel two years later .
Riveting from start to finish .	A gut-wrenching revenge thriller in which three criminals - unrepentant racist white guy Jessie Lee ( William Sanderson , in a scenery-chewing early role ) , Hispanic Chino ( Daniel Faraldo ) and Oriental Ling ( Peter Yoshida ) escape from a prison transport and end up inside the house of a black family headed by Ted Turner ( Robert Judd ) , a minister . The family endures a nonstop barrage of taunts , humiliation , and brutality ( not to mention a mind-boggling assortment of racial epithets ) before they finally get a chance to turn the tables . Writer Straw Weisman ( yeah , that really is his credited screen name ) and director Robert A . Endelson serve up an incredibly riveting exploitation favorite that holds absolutely nothing back . They know how to push all the right buttons here ; I dare a viewer not to get riled up to some degree watching this ! It's fascinating in a true can't-look-away fashion . Weisman and Endelson also take undeniably potent risks here in killing off a boy and don't even spare a baby from being threatened . It's well staged , and flows along quite quickly towards its inevitable final confrontation . By the time of the climax , it's all too easy to root for the Turner family to go for blood . Sanderson dominates the whole proceedings in a true force-of-nature performance , creating a memorable and compelling villain no matter how vile , bigoted , evil and degenerate he proves himself to be . The rest of the cast , consisting of much less recognizable folk ( although Reginald Bythewood , as Floyd , continued to act and eventually went on to write and direct as well ) , each do their job well ; the grandma ( Lela Small ) in particular stands out , as she refuses to ever let herself be intimidated . A relic of a time where film-makers could take the chance of exploiting political incorrectness ( something like this would never fly nowadays ) , " Fight for Your Life " is one hell of a guilty pleasure and a true marvel to watch . Other highlights : The family dog peeing on Sandersons ' face while he's out cold . A minor character conveniently getting her top yanked off , exposing her bouncing breasts , before being pitched over a waterfall to her death . Trash doesn't come much more gritty , nasty , and shameless than this . Providing you have a high tolerance level for offensive dialog and situations , you may find it quite worth your while .
William Smith won't be good for your eyes here . . .	He just might gouge them out for you . The veteran movie tough guy plays nasty thug " Carrot " , leader of a group of trouble makers in NYC in the year 2012 . It's a post-apocalypse year , and much of the city is deserted , forlorn , run-down , and covered in cobwebs . Trying to avoid confrontation with Carrot's men are another group of more peaceable individuals , led by the " Baron " ( always wonderful Max von Sydow ) . The Baron believes that thanks to the machinations of Cal ( Richard Kelton ) , the botanist of their group , the seeds that Cal's created will be a good bargaining chip for wherever they may go . He enlists the aid of the solitary Carson ( a nicely imposing and enigmatic Yul Brynner ) to be a much needed muscle man . Robert Clouse of " Enter the Dragon " fame is writer and director of this entertaining futuristic thriller . It's commendably harsh and uncompromising ; few people are spared the realities of day-to-day life in this new world . And the film does well in portraying human desperation and the lengths to which people will go to survive . In the end , there's little difference between the bruisers led by Carrot and the Baron's followers . It's both rousing and suspenseful at the same time . The showdown between Brynner and Smith is saved for the very end , but is worth waiting for . Brynner , still a fine physical specimen in his mid-50's at the time , is believable in all of his action scenes and he and Smith go at each other with a vengeance for a conclusion that comes with a fairly nasty twist . Especially impressive is the look given to the film . It's amazing to see so many locations look so desolate , and environments look so decrepit as to visualize gloom and despair in a major way . Adding to the quality of this production are Gil Melle's music score and Gerald Hirschfeld's moody cinematography . Contributing fine supporting performances are Joanna Miles ( " Bug " ) as the Baron's pregnant daughter and Stephen McHattie as one of his people . In the end , " The Ultimate Warrior " stays true to its bleak nature while still generating a feeling of hope for the future . It's grim , gritty , and well-acted , and thoroughly entertaining .
More good 70's era horror from ever-reliable Dan Curtis .	Dan Curtis , one of the great names in the horror genre in the 70's , gave us such memorable titles as ' The Night Stalker ' , ' Dark Shadows ' , ' Trilogy of Terror ' , and " Burnt Offerings " . Here he once again delivers an effective shocker that was supposed to be the pilot for a series that unfortunately never came to pass . Roy Thinnes is writer David Norliss , whose latest project involves exposing the fraud behind supernatural occurrences . He comes across the story of widow Ellen Sterns Cort ( Angie Dickinson ) , who claims to have had an encounter with her supposedly deceased husband . David investigates this story and finds himself starting to believe as related murders ( in which blood is drained from various victims ' bodies ) begin occurring . " The Norliss Tapes " is basically good , solid storytelling with a script by William F . Nolan ( based on a story by Fred Mustard Stewart ) . It's got effective twists and turns , enjoyable shocks , and a top-notch cast . Thinnes is solid in the lead , with Angie wonderful as always . Don Porter , Claude Akins , Michele Carey , Vonetta McGee , Hurd Hatfield , Robert Mandan , George DiCenzo , and Patrick Wright co-star , with stuntman Nick Dimitri impressively creepy , buried under blue makeup , as the ferocious boogeyman of the story . Robert Cobert supplies a fine music score , and the presentation is quite atmospheric and right to the point ; it wastes no time and everything is played commendably straight . The finish is a real corker although it's an honest shame that the series attempt was not successful considering how the story wraps up and how much more material could have been derived from the premise . Still , it's worth catching for any fans of the horror films and TV series from this era .
A must for the action fan .	Rambo ( Sylvester Stallone ) is sprung from a prison work detail to undertake a daring mission : to infiltrate the P . O . W . camp that he escaped from back in the days of ' Nam , and confirm that prisoners of war are still being held there . Little does he know just how little he can trust the bureaucrat ( Charles Napier ) in charge of the operation . While just as politically loaded , if not more so , than the first movie , this movie favors the straight action approach . It's pure escapist fare , comic book style and a lot of fun . Yes , of course , the suspension of disbelief will have to reach new levels here , but the film is so infectiously over-the-top and rousing ( helped in no small part by a very provocative score by Jerry Goldsmith ) that it's easy to go along for the ride . Stallone is definitely at ease with the role now , and has more dialog ( and is more intelligible , to boot ) . His " First Blood " co-star Richard Crenna is back on hand to be his rock , colonel and mentor Sam Trautman . Crenna and Napier are both wonderful in support and playwright and actor Steven Berkoff has a field day as the flamboyant Russian bad guy Podovsky . Martin Kove of ' Cagney and Lacey ' and " Karate Kid " fame also puts in an appearance as another dubious type . As a matter of fact , all of the bad guys are choice villains who you will love to hate . Also making a good impression is appealing and gorgeous Julia Nickson as the Vietnamese contact Co Bao . A very professional looking picture as well , it's photographed by an ace Brit veteran named Jack Cardiff . All the night scenes look moody and all the day scenes are bright and dazzling . The stunts are incredible , the deaths good and violent ( although you technically won't see a lot of blood spill on camera ) , the action loud and hard-edged , and the pace quite admirable . Never at any time does it get boring . One neat sequence involves a camouflaged Rambo . Closing credits tune , " Peace in our Life " , is co-written and sung by Sly's brother Frank . Followed three years later by " Rambo III " .
Great fun ; nature strikes back with a real fury in this one .	A disparate group of hikers led by rugged mountain guide Steve Buckner ( the always solid Christopher George ) is trapped in the wilderness by an onslaught of animals which are all being driven into a frenzy by a depleted ozone layer ( according to this movie , it's the fluorocarbons released into the air that are responsible ) . It truly is survival of the fittest time in director William Girdlers ' follow-up to his killer bear flick " Grizzly " . It's a pretty enjoyable B movie with a supporting cast full of familiar faces like Richard Jaeckel , Lynda Day George , Ruth Roman , Michael Ansara , Andrew Stevens , and last but by no means least , an over-the-top Leslie Nielsen whose foolhardy , macho bravado is just priceless . His acting practically makes the whole movie , especially when he insists on going head-to-head with a bear - while shirtless . Susan Backlinie , the highly memorable first victim of " Jaws " , actually repeats that duty here - she's the first to go ! I had a very good time watching this one . The animal wranglers on this film certainly earned their pay ; many of the attack scenes were genuinely harrowing . The eye-popping scenery of the High Sierras looks great as photographed by Robert Sorrentino , and Lalo Schifrins ' score is perfectly ominous . Director Girdler paces and stages it with considerable panache , and while some of the victims can be annoying and are really no more than fodder for the rampaging animals , he still made me uneasy to see what would become of them . If you're like me and are partial to " nature strikes back " cinema to begin with , I'm sure you'll have a good time with this as well .
Here comes the bride . . .	Eight months after the " Miskatonic Massacre " , Drs . Herbert West ( Jeffrey Combs ) and Dan Cain ( Bruce Abbott ) are at it again . This time , West isn't content to re-animate the dead . He wants to take their wacky experiments a step further , and the aim is now to create life . Assembling a collage of body parts , West intends to breathe new life into Meg Halsey ( the ill-fated love interest in the first film played by Barbara Crampton ) by making her heart the centerpiece of his macabre new creation . Brian Yuzna , who'd produced the first " Re-Animator " for Stuart Gordon , knew that it would be a tough act to follow . Fortunately , he succeeds in giving us an oftentimes over-the-top sequel , combining the H . P . Lovecraft story and characters with a pertinent homage to " Bride of Frankenstein " , that gives us the elements that we loved about the first film - the wild and crazy horror , the delightfully ghoulish onslaught of squishy splatter , and the gleefully dark humor - while adding some new ideas to the mix , preventing it from being merely a " more of the same " type movie . It goes without saying that it isn't quite as good as the first movie , and doesn't really break any new ground , but it's still a well made and fun movie for fans of the original . Dr . Wests ' basement lab , not to mention the adjoining crypt , are great examples of moody and stylish production design , and it's all excellently photographed by Rick Fichter . Richard Band returns to supply us with another great score , highlighted by the memorable main theme . The gore and creature creations show some definite ingenuity ; the melding of various body parts ( an arm and a leg fused together , a crawling eye with fingers for legs , a re-animated dog with a human arm substituting for a severed leg ) provides for some great moments . Combs steals the show with his delightful , hammy histrionics , while Abbott once again fulfills the duty of trying to keep his head in the face of so much chaos . David Gale , who wasn't originally supposed to have a part here , returns as the now vengeance-crazed decapitated head of Dr . Hill ; he's just so much fun that one might wish that he had more to do throughout . Claude Earl Jones plays a relentless police detective who's actually got an agenda that doesn't have everything to do with merely solving a case . And knockout actresses Fabiana Udenio and Kathleen Kinmont are respectively a new potential love interest for Dr . Cain inevitably thrust into the ensuing bloodbath , and a terminal patient who will become " The Bride " for the rousing conclusion . Kinmont doesn't have too much to do until then , but she elicits some real sympathy as this unfortunate science experiment . It's a fine horror film in its own right , with enough good stuff to make it solid entertainment for horror fans .
Fabulous and original ; inspired lunacy .	After trading places with an Elvis impersonator 20 years ago , the King himself ( Bruce Campbell ) is a bitter and lonely old man living out his life in a rural East Texas nursing home . His confidante is an elderly African-American ( Ossie Davis ) who genuinely believes himself to be JFK . Together they learn that one of the lesser-known Egyptian mummies is prowling the hallways of their nursing home at night and sucking the souls out of their fellow patients . This film never takes itself seriously and well it shouldn't . Enjoyably silly - - it's far , far out premise is handled just right by the film-makers , who turn their film into what could promise to be a memorable cult item . I dare say , this amusing blend of horror and comedy is one of the best things that I've seen lately . I need to see these kinds of films sometimes - they help to shake me out of a certain seen-it-all complacency . Campbell and Davis offer incredible , right-on-the-money performances and the script offers some genuine laugh-out-loud moments . I had fun watching it and I will recommend it to others .
Very entertaining .	Giorgio Mainardi ( George Hilton ) is an unfaithful husband who witnesses an unnamed murderer ( creepy faced Michel Antoine , a . k . a . Antoine Saint-John ) in the act of disposing of a body . He uses this to his advantage : he blackmails the man into performing a service for him : namely , murdering his wife Norma ( Teresa Velazquez ) . But that's not the end of this twist-laden thriller . The killer has his car stolen by two attractive , footloose young lovers ( stunning Cristina Galbo as Laura and hunky Alessio Orano as Luca ) and relentlessly tracks them down , while Giorgio is dealing with a suspicious police inspector ( Eduardo Fajardo ) . I'm not an aficionado of the giallo genre , but I know enough to be aware that this often farcical thriller is a real change of pace from giallo conventions . It's actually very easy to follow and consistently entertaining , ultimately leading to some dark places and some potent violence . Director Luigi Cozzi does one thing very well , and that's building up tension . He crafts this engaging thriller with style . Color schemes ( like orange and yellow ) are very noticeable , lovemaking scenes are handled quite well , and his juxtaposition of two very different sexual encounters ( nudity is quite in abundance here , for those of you who are interested ) is impressive . In a nice touch , the murder plot is hatched while Giorgio and the killer are at an ice rink . The acting is generally good ; Galbo is one incredibly bewitching actress , and Antoine makes for a positively unpleasant but compelling creep . This is overall a slick and fun movie that's well worth catching .
My first dose of J-horror .	During the latter part of the 19th century , when some parts of Japan were being Westernized , some parts were still deeply rooted in the past . The story here has a cruel land-owning family seizing the property of a deeply-in-debt farmer . In an ongoing series of tragedies , the farmer dies , his wife and daughter are enslaved , the wife dies when trying to prevent the killing of a snake ( it's considered bad luck to kill a snake ) , and the daughter is assaulted by the son of the landowner . Eventually , the spirits of the farmer and his family materialize in a quest for revenge . This Japanese shocker is equal parts devastating , surreal , and eerie . It's artfully and skillfully made , with lush , impressive , widescreen cinematography and excellent sets . Imagery is powerful and likely to provoke strong reactions from the viewer . The acting is impressive ; it's all too easy to deeply sympathize with this poor farming family and root for them to take their revenge , as well as hating the landlords . ( There's also a heavy dose of comedy relief , mostly in the form of the character Kame . ) Director Nobuo Nakagawa , considered the father of J-horror , and whose credits include the 1960 classic " Jigoku " , combines all the elements very well to create a memorable movie with elements of melodrama and the supernatural . The ghosts here don't directly cause the ruination of the villains , but are manifestations of their guilt , causing them to bring about their own ends , creating a strong psychological quality . The result is a pretty effective movie that is clearly not that well known and could use a little more exposure . Any horror fans fond of the Japanese takes on the genre would be advised to check it out .
For what it is . . . it's a fun ride .	Football star Brian " Boz " Bosworth attempted to start an acting career with this very fun bit of escapism , as a suspended Alabama cop who is coerced by the FBI into participating in a sting operation . He will infiltrate a particularly ruthless motorcycle gang known as " The Brotherhood " , led by " Chains " Cooper ( Lance Henriksen , enjoyable as always ) in order to get the goods on them . Personally , I think it's just simple , cool , bada$$ action movie fare . Predictable it may be , but it ain't like it's supposed to be anything resembling high art . It's entertainment , plain and simple . Bosworth makes a creditable enough debut as an action hero ; the beefy , blond , mullet-haired " Boz " certainly looks the part . He's well supported by Henriksen and William Forsythe , two actors often at their best when playing nasty villains , and they don't disappoint here . The film features the to-be-expected stunts and action set pieces , but they're all very well executed and help to maintain a steady level of interest . The finale is the best part . In the very amusing opening supermarket shoot-em-up , look for a very young Renee O'Connor ( ' Xena : Warrior Princess ' ) wearing big , unwieldy braces . Hopefully , this movie will raise your adrenaline level as it did mine , and the strains of The Doobie Brothers ' " Dangerous " playing over the closing credits will leave you with a big grin on your face !
I thought this was pretty entertaining .	Los Angeles is engulfed in flame , lava , ash and the like when a volcanic eruption happens underground . Mike Roark ( Tommy Lee Jones ) , the head of the Office of Emergency Management , is the requisite hero , with Dr . Amy Barnes ( Anne Heche ) filling the role of the exposition-quoting scientific expert . For a natural disaster movie , I think it did its job . It got awfully intense . Those special effects were very darn convincing . It really did look like the characters were going through hl on Earth . The picture wasted little time getting to the good stuff , and remained a flashy thrill ride for the duration . Thankfully , the film has good enough actors that are able to transcend the surrounding spectacle . Jones and Heche are just fine as the leads , and the presence of Don Cheadle and Keith David was very welcome . Gaby Hoffmann , as Jones ' daughter , is clearly too old to be playing a character that was probably written as being a couple of years younger . I agree that her pinhead character needed saving a little too often . John Corbett has a rather small role as a developer and the little-seen , under-appreciated Jacqueline Kim is his doctor wife . Even if much of the writing and characters were much too flawed for some viewers to tolerate , I got into the spirit of this thing . I really did . It's basically like other releases of the time like " Twister " and " Dante's Peak " where a team of technical wizards were able to create a picture that's really just for fun . I didn't really think about it ; I just went with the flow ( to use a really horrible pun ) .
A real hoot of a backwoods horror comedy spectacle .	Co-writer / director Tim Sullivan pays fond tribute to the immortal Herschell Gordon Lewis with this 21st century version of Lewis's heralded " Two Thousand Maniacs ! " If you're not already familiar with the story , it involves vengeance-crazed Southern folks who mask their unwavering blood-lust with good ol ' Southern hospitality . Led by eye-patch-wearing Mayor Buckman ( long time genre pro Robert Englund ) , they waylay hapless Yankees with their phony detour sign that leads them right to the community of Pleasant Valley . The victims this time are a pretty typical bunch of attractive college age kids who get slaughtered in a variety of ways . The original had a good deal of infectious charm , enhanced by Lewis's highly memorable ditty " The South Will Rise Again " , rehashed here several times . This redux is definitely slicker and higher budgeted , with not as much of the charm , but is still recommended viewing for horror fans for a variety of reasons . Sullivan includes the kind of ingredients guaranteed to give viewers a good time . The girls are all hotties , there's a pleasing amount of T & A , a gleeful go-for-broke enthusiasm , an onslaught of outrageous gore ( Sullivan and company come up with some very amusing ways of killing people ) , and , most important , a refreshing tongue-in-cheek sensibility where no-one ever takes themselves too seriously and just has a good time with the sadistic , flavorful , politically incorrect material . The cast clearly has a ball , especially all of those in the antagonistic roles . Englund is a delightful , expressive ham as the flamboyant Mayor Buckman , with the always wonderful Lin Shaye in one of her biggest ever roles ( outside of her work with the Farrelly brothers ) as the seemingly warm and inviting Granny Boone . Among the crazed townsfolk , the incredibly alluring Christa Campbell and Wendy Kremer stand out as the milk maiden and Peaches . Giuseppe Andrews is also quite good as the maniac who switches , Jekyll and Hyde style , between a gentlemanly manner and his truer nature . The cast is littered with cameo appearances : Johnny Legend and Scott Spiegel as the strolling minstrels , Eli Roth as Justin and Grim , country star Travis Tritt as a gas station attendant , Bill McKinney ( of " Deliverance " infamy ) as the chef , Peter Stormare as Professor Ackerman , and Kane Hodder as Jason . Sullivan himself can be seen as Coffin Harry . " 2001 Maniacs " displays effective pacing , with Sullivan bringing real flair to his film . It's a gleefully over-the-top smorgasbord of grisly set pieces , maintaining its amusing mean - spirited approach right up to the hilariously nasty finish .
By Grabthar's Hammer , It Works !	This is a spoof of Star Trek , and the pop culture phenomenon it started , using the has-been actors of a Trek-like TV series who now do no more than make personal appearances at conventions . However , they are forced to take on the roles of real space adventurers when they are approached for help by genuine alien beings who are being slaughtered by a merciless enemy . It works , this movie , it actually works . Even if you're like me and are not a Trek fan to begin with , I think you'll be able to appreciate this comedy . It's smart , likeable , and once again - - I know I say this an awful lot - - made great by a perfect cast . Genuinely entertaining , with characters who are actually funny . I give it .
Too bad we don't see pictures like this nowadays . . .	From one of the foremost exploitation experts of decades past , Jack Hill , comes this outlandishly fun girl-gangs flick . Lace ( Robbie Lee , of the previous years ' " Big Bad Mama " ) is the leader of the girl gang " The Dagger Debs " , affiliated with a male gang known as " The Silver Daggers " . Trouble brews when Lace allows new acquaintance Maggie ( Joanne Nail ) into the Debs , while the Daggers are busy feuding with a rival gang for control of a high school . This lurid , flashy and trashy little gem is completely hard to resist . Walking an amusing line between earnestness and tongue-in-cheek , it draws one in with its colorful assortment of uninhibited and brassy and sometimes downright rotten characters , brought to life by a ready and willing cast . Leads Lee and Nail are enjoyable - if not really all that convincing - while supporting actress Monica Gayle ( dubbed " Patch " for an obvious reason ) tends to steal all of her scenes as a particularly ruthless gang member . Other cast members include Asher Brauner as Dom , the leader of the Daggers - a truly despicable heel , Kitty Bruce ( daughter of legendary comedian Lenny Bruce ) the portly and put-upon Donut , Don Stark ( ' That 70's Show ) as Daggers member Hook , Marlene Clark as Muff , the leader of a group of black revolutionaries , Kate Murtagh as butch prison matron Mom Smackley , and veteran stuntman and character actor Bob Minor as a cop . There's much here to revel in ; as a whole , " Switchblade Sisters " is as ingratiating a guilty pleasure as anything that I've ever watched . The rival gang is particularly delicious with their insanely ridiculous wardrobes . Director Hill also stages some entertaining and highly amusing action scenes ; a gunfight in a roller rink , of all places , rates as a definite highlight . Screenwriter F . X . Maier also supplies us with such wonderfully glorious lines as " Hands off the fruit , ft ! " and " Maggie's now , and you're slidin ' . " as well as a patently silly final monologue from Maggie right before the closing credits . The music score is upbeat and funky and the movie gets off to a good-natured start with its opening credits song . Even with some fairly serious moments , Hill and company never treat this basically campy material with too much gravity . Both a celebration of female empowerment and plain old-fashioned sex appeal , it emerges as a fun picture , silly and easy-going and guaranteed to leave a smile on the face of many an exploitation fan . It might be worth pairing this movie with " The Warriors " for a great 70's gang picture double bill .
One of the best pictures from the late 1970's / early 1980's Roger Corman vault .	The first solo directing effort for Joe Dante , future director of movies like " Gremlins " and " Innerspace " . Heather Menzies plays Maggie McGowan , a skip tracer who enlists the aid of surly local Paul Grogan ( Bradford Dillman ) in her search for a pair of missing youngsters . Their search leads them to a top-secret military facility hiding a deadly secret - hordes of mutated killer fish - which Maggie unthinkingly releases into the nearby river system by draining a pond . The hungry fish proceed to do exactly what you would expect them to . . . This is a highly spirited , trashy yet undeniably fun little thriller made as sort of a tribute to " Jaws " . It gets very bloody and yet at the same time manages to avoid being overtly unpleasant - no mean feat . The decent leads are ably supported by a pleasantly campy supporting cast full of familiar faces - some of whom would become regulars in Dante's movies . Makeup effects are somewhat better than the creature effects - the fish look too phony , sorry to say . Best of all , it's reasonably amusing , with a savvy screenplay by John Sayles , who before becoming a major name in independent cinema , wrote this and a few other good horror movies from the same era , e . g . " Alligator " , " The Howling " . " Sir , the piranha . . . they're eating the guests . "
" The life of a repo man is always intense . "	Highly original 1980's cult classic has Emilio Estevez in one of his best early roles : new wave punk Otto , taken under the wing of veteran car repossessor Bud ( a truly excellent Harry Dean Stanton ) . Otto soon learns to love the life of a repo man . Meanwhile , a ' 64 Chevy Malibu with a nasty secret in the trunk is causing all sorts of trouble for all sorts of people . After a while , it ceases to make much sense , but if you're like me , you'll be so amused by what's going on you probably won't mind so much . It has a constant off-the-wall sensibility , combining a science-fiction plot involving extraterrestrial corpses with more earthbound , satirical and black comedy elements . The cast gives it extra value ; Sy Richardson , Susan Barnes , Fox Harris , Olivia Barash , Tom Finnegan , Richard Foronjy , and Vonetta McGee contribute substantially in supporting roles , with the inimitable Tracey Walter scoring strongly as the yardman Miller , whose philosophical ramblings are one of the highlights of the picture . The film moves at a very nice pace ( it certainly isn't at any time ever boring ) , and features a real cutting-edge soundtrack that is fun to listen to ( Iggy Pop composed the " Repo Man " theme ) . It's capped off by a truly perfect , out-of-this-world ending . I had a good time watching this one , and I would easily recommend it to others .
" There is no end , only a new beginning . "	The Baldwin family - dad / husband Harry ( Ray Milland , doubling here as director ) , mom / wife Ann ( Jean Hagen ) , son Rick ( Frankie Avalon ) , and daughter Karen ( Mary Mitchel ) - are going for a camping trip in the country . While driving through the country , they find out that nuclear war has devastated Los Angeles , and they head into an all-too-plausible every-man-for-himself situation . Hoping to find a secluded enough location where they can hole up , they struggle to deal with their predicament , while having to defend themselves from some predatory young toughs . As long as the threat of nuclear warfare exists , the message of movies like this will always be timely . There's no melodrama here , merely a realistic portrayal of determination , courage , selfishness ( there will always be those who will get greedy and otherwise capitalize on human desperation ) , ruthlessness , and societal breakdown . It's handled very capably by Milland as a director . Working from a smart script by Jay Simms and John Morton , he gives us a convincing depiction of a world coming unglued , making the interesting move of focusing on this one low-key , likable family . The acting is good from everybody involved , including teen star Avalon . Richard Garland , as a hardware store owner , and Richard Bakalyan , as the leader of the young thugs , stand out among the supporting cast . Sharp black & white photography ( by Gilbert Warrenton ) is an asset , while the jazz music score by Les Baxter makes for a striking and unusual choice . Milland , cast , and crew deserve credit for opting to be as grim as possible . The overall tone is pretty dark yet a feeling of hope does come through . It's overall an effective and entertaining thriller , with a strong , no-nonsense performance by Milland at its core .
William Smith is the man .	A group of bikers is recruited by the military for a daring rescue operation during the Vietnam War . The trouble is , can these fun-loving hooligans stay focused long enough to complete the mission ? An Army captain does his best to supervise / babysit them . Directed with typical assured efficiency by action specialist Jack Starrett , this starts slow but still has some rather interesting and poignant moments to deliver . The climax is the best part , with plenty of well-staged stunts and special effects . The cast includes the fantastic veteran B movie he-man William Smith as the amiable yet all-business Link , Adam Roarke as the romantic Duke , Paul Koslo as the engaging Limpy , and Bernie Hamilton as the captain . Some unexpected developments pack a good punch . Screenwriter Alan Caillou , whose other credits include " Kingdom of the Spiders " , does a good job in showing the effect of the war on the region and the people . Provocative as well as visceral , this movie delivers good B-movie entertainment . It blends the biker and war genres into a satisfying mix .
Premium-Quality H2O .	Bobby Boucher ( Adam Sandler ) is a slow-witted mama's boy who loves his work : he's the waterboy for a college football team . After taking tons of abuse from the players , he is fired by the coach ( Jerry Reed ) , and he ends up connecting with Coach Klein ( Henry Winkler ) who discovers Bobby's hidden talent : if you get Bobby mad enough , he can run and tackle like nobody's business . I don't mind saying this : this movie may be silly , but it's hard to resist . I think it's genuinely likeable and funny ; Kathy Bates ( as Bobby's mama ) and Winkler are right-on-target , and Fairuza Balk ( as the bad-girl love interest , Vicki ) is definitely sexy . Also : Sandler's one-time Saturday Night Live colleague Rob Schneider has a recurring cameo that falls into the stupid-but-hilarious category . I do have to say that doesn't really sound like a Cajun accent that Sandler is doing , just a funny voice . And I think anybody who can figure out what Farmer Fran ( Blake Clark ) is saying most of the time deserves some sort of prize ! I will give it !
Very Good !	Hunter ( Denzel Washington ) is recruited to be the new XO for submarine commander Ramsey ( Gene Hackman ) at a time when the United States and Russia are poised on the brink of a nuclear war . At one point in the film , the sub receives a message that is incomplete . Ramsey believes it's his duty to fire his nukes while Hunter insists on receiving clarification about the message first . This all leads to a mutiny on board the sub ! Worth watching to see two fantastic , incredible actors butt heads . Theirs is a struggle that is compelling and very tense . The film-makers know this and handle the premise expertly . A fine supporting cast is the icing on this cake . I just really enjoyed this movie . Some people may view the outcome of this film as being entirely predictable , but getting there is the fun part . I think it's worth .
The ' Great Teacher ' Story Once Again . . .	Morgan Freeman plays " Crazy Joe " Clark , a veteran educator who accepts the challenge of restoring a nightmarish inner-city school to its former days of glory . . . and inspiring the students to actually start learning . Based on a true story . While stories of ' Great Teachers ' have been around for some time now - going all the way back as far as " The Blackboard Jungle " and " To Sir With Love " - this one holds up reasonably well . What makes it a must-see are a few exceptional performances - especially the always compelling Freeman . I also happen to think Beverly Todd , Robert Guillaume , the late Lynne Thigpen , and Karen Malina White are impressive ( although the vindictiveness of Thigpen's character is hard to understand ) . While the film itself is not totally infallible , it still makes for good entertainment . Keep an eye out for a pre-'Sopranos ' Michael Imperioli , in his film debut , as one of the thugs that " Crazy Joe " has removed from the school . A pre - " Candyman " Tony Todd is also on hand to play the school's chief of security . I gave it .
Entertaining and worth checking out .	" Breakdown " is a better than average thriller pitting Jeff Taylor ( Kurt Russell ) , a more or less ordinary guy , against a quartet of nasty , slimy kidnapper-extortionists , led by semi truck driver Warren " Red " Barr ( the late , great J . T . Walsh ) . Jeff and wife Amy ( Kathleen Quinlan ) obviously have had more money than some folks , but have run into financial difficulty and are moving west - as the film starts , we see them driving through the Southwest - from Massachusetts to California . After a run in with creepy looking " redneck " Earl ( M . C . Gainey ) , the two have a problem with their jeep on the road . " Red " shows up , and offers to drive them to the nearest diner so that they can phone for a tow truck . Only Amy goes with him , however ( Jeff doesn't want to leave the jeep ) , and when Jeff later shows up at the planned rendezvous point , Amy's nowhere to be found . " Breakdown " works for me for basically two reasons : One , co-writer and director Jonathan Mostow has a genuine knack for directing riveting action and suspense scenes , and Two , the character of Jeff Taylor , well thought out and brought to believable life by Russell , most often does things that actually make sense . For once , I saw a movie character that behaved like a real person might do . Jeff is no over the top , macho , typical action movie man who snarls at the bad guys , spits in their faces , and reels off one liners - he's basically Everyman . Quinlan is rather under utilized , because Amy is out of the action for much of the film . Jeff's nemeses are grandly played by Walsh , Gainey , and Jack Noseworthy , although Ritch Brinkley's role - as the fourth bad guy - doesn't seem to serve any purpose . I think that you could have cut his role from the film and had basically the same results . " Breakdown " is efficiently paced , decently photographed ( featuring some of the best Southern vistas that I've seen since the likes of " Thelma & Louise " ) , and has an effective music score by Basil Poledouris . One of the best moments in the film has to be the scene where Jeff is in a police station and gaping at a massive bulletin board completely covered with missing persons reports and pictures . " About 100 , 000 people disappear a year in America " , says a deputy , and I don't exactly disbelieve him . However , the closing moments may leave a bad taste in some viewer's mouths . As it turns out , Amy ends up taking vindictiveness to new lows . This is a great vehicle - so to speak - for Russell and Walsh ( " Red " is , I think , one of the best bad guys role that he ever had ) . Good work by all concerned .
Chucky continues his psychotic carnage !	Andy Barclay ( Alex Vincent ) the young would-be victim of the first " Child's Play " , is now boarding with foster parents . Unfortunately , the Chucky doll from the first movie is resurrected ( because the company that makes the Good Guys dolls wants to dispel the negative publicity ) but we all already know what a stupid decision that will be . Chucky tracks poor Andy down and proceeds to slaughter everybody in his way as he attempts once again to transfer his soul to the boy's body . Chucky is truly one of the nastiest , most foul and evil , snarling little psychopathic villains of slasher cinema . While it is unpleasant in one sense to spend ( movie ) time with such a demonic little creep , I can't help but be amused . The movie itself is mean-spirited , and the script is often improbable and full of holes , but overall it is also slick , reasonably well acted , and entertaining in the usual visceral manner . Once again , kudos to the creators / designers of all Chucky effects , and to Brad Dourif for giving such a fine vocal performance . Few actors are as good as he is at playing such rabid , foaming-at-the-mouth psychopaths ( of course , this has also hurt his career , since he has often been the victim of typecasting ) . Definitely far more amusing than scary - like I said , it's not really that GOOD , but it IS entertaining .
Corman delivers another fun adaptation of Poe material .	This is an entertaining three-part horror anthology taken from works by Edgar Allan Poe , scripted by Richard Matheson and produced & directed by Roger Corman . While not without flaws , it's stylish film-making and is well performed by a distinguished cast of thespians . It explores the ideas of what happens after death , before death , and at the exact moment of death . " Morella " features young Leonora ( Maggie Pierce ) , who is dying and visits long-estranged father Locke ( Vincent Price ) in order to make some sort of connection with him before her time is gone . She learns that her late mother Morella ( Leona Gage ) came to hate her when Morella herself perished shortly after giving birth . And father and daughter will learn just how determined their dearly departed is to strike back at both of them . This entry is the shortest . It gets to the point quickly and delivers some good and creepy moments , as well as a finish that literally brings the house down . The art direction is stunning ; I don't believe I've seen a film that draped everything in cobwebs as much as this film does . " The Black Cat " stars a constantly mugging and amusing Peter Lorre as Montresor Herringbone , a hopeless alcoholic who at one point staggers into a wine tasting session , and impresses the attendees with his knowledge , including Fortunato Luchresi ( Price ) . When Fortunato is introduced to Montresor's long-suffering wife ( Joyce Jameson ) , the two new acquaintances begin a passionate love affair which Montresor eventually discovers . He seals them behind a brick wall in his basement . As this segment progresses , more and more bizarre , surreal sequences occur that seem to suggest Montresor's conscience nagging at him . The photographic effects are very striking . There's also quite a comedic element to this tale , thanks to Lorre's performance , although it goes on the longest of the three tales , ultimately dragging too much to be completely effective . " The Case of M . Valdemar " features Basil Rathbone as Carmichael , an unscrupulous hypnotist who's helping Mr . Valdemar ( Price once again ) , who's dying , put off his inevitable death for as long as possible . When Valdemar physically passes on , his spirit remains strong , although now under Carmichael's control . This segment really hinges on its acting , and Rathbone is delicious as the subtly sinister villain . It's an interesting and riveting story that culminates in an enjoyably gruesome comeuppance . Production designer / art director Daniel Haller and cinematographer Floyd Crosby continued to help Corman get a great look for these pictures ; " Tales of Terror " is always visually effective . It's an entertaining horror anthology that benefits strongly from its cast and storytelling . Despite the over-length of the " Black Cat " segment , the stories move along pretty well and the reasonable 89 minute running time results in some fine little horror tales . It's a good addition to Corman's Poe series of the 1960's . " The Black Cat " and " The Case of M . Valdemar " were subsequently adapted together for the 1990 film " Two Evil Eyes " , directed by Dario Argento and George A . Romero .
A charming low-budget sci-fi winner .	At a remote space station , Max ( Don Opper ) is the loyal assistant to Dr . Daniel ( Klaus Kinski ) , a devoted scientist . Max also happens to be a very lifelike android with a healthy interest in human relationships . On his own initiative , he allows three people , who happen to be criminals on the lam , to enter the station , with memorable repercussions for all involved . " Android " stands out among other cheaply made sci-fi efforts of the 80's for its thoughtful and sensitive script ( co-written by Opper ) , as well as Oppers ' own very sympathetic , low-key , and believable performance . In fact , it's so nicely done the fact that it's cheaply made really ends up beside the point . The story is genuinely offbeat and of a sometimes dark nature ; it's interesting and refreshing and the final twists are pulled off very well . It may move at an unhurried pace but it's never boring at any time and it clocks in at a very reasonable running time of just over 80 minutes . Adding to the high likability factor is Don Prestons ' very pleasant electronic score , which always sets the appropriate mood . Tim Suhrstedts ' cinematography is likewise quite effective . Also among the crew are folks such as John Carl Buechler , Mark Shostrom , James Cameron , and Rachel Talalay ( who also acts in the film ) . Kinski is as fine as ever in his indomitably edgy and eccentric manner . Opper , who would go on to play the affable comic relief character Charlie in the " Critters " movies , also creates some appealing chemistry with co-star Brie Howard , as the female member of the criminal trio . " Android " is an appealing little film that should be better known ; it's too good for it to remain relatively obscure .
This is John Candy's show all the way !	The late , great John Candy does well as stressed-out air traffic controller Jack Chester , who's actually ORDERED to go on a vacation . He and his family ( Karen Austin , Kerri Green , Joey Lawrence , Aubrey Jene ) travel to Florida and rent a home for the summer , where obligatory misadventures take place . Jack also butts heads with obnoxious , snot-nosed local moneybags Al Pellet ( Richard Crenna ) and seeks to take the rich guy down a peg or two . " Summer Rental " is for me good comedy entertainment that is likable and down-to-earth . It doesn't get too silly , or over-the-top , and the characters are actually realistic . Candy is , in the film , just as funny and naturally endearing as he ever was . Even Crenna does a good turn , playing for laughs the same kind of role he was supposed to have played in the previous year's " The Flamingo Kid " . Candy's children are actually likable and are not portrayed as stereotypically wisecracking little know-it-alls . Rip Torn gets into the act , too , hamming it up ( but not unbearably so ) as crusty local restaurant owner Scully . I really like " Summer Rental " ; I have seen it before and still laugh at it quite a bit . It's quite possibly one of Candy's best vehicles . There's not really a lot of plot , but that doesn't mean that the writing is necessarily BAD . In fact , some of those lines were good . I even liked that song " Turning Around " by Jimmy Buffett ( played once in a montage , and then again over the closing credits ) .
A stylishly macabre melange of surreal scenes .	A very young and beautiful Jennifer Connelly has an early career top-billed role as Jennifer Corvino , daughter of a famous actor , who is sent to a girls school in Switzerland . Jennifer has an uncanny way of bonding with insects that is encouraged by local entomology professor John McGregor ( Donald Pleasence in a delightful performance ) ; it will come in handy as Jennifer seeks to probe the mystery of a sadistic killer butchering local girls . Dario Argento scores again in another of his carefully orchestrated horror masterpieces . As is often the case for his films , one mustn't ponder the plot ( as interestingly bizarre as it is ) too much but let him take them along for the ride . With frequent Argento collaborator Daria Nicolodi and Patrick Bauchau doing solid supporting work , Connelly showed even back then that she had what it took , and she carries the film quite capably . Sergio Stivaletti does his usual bang-up job in the creation of good and gruesome makeup effects , and Luigi Cozzi handles special optical effects duties . These colleagues and more assist Argento in the creation of an atmospheric , grim , and nasty shocker that remains a puzzler until its marvelously twisted revelation / resolution . Use of lighting is superb as always for an Argento movie and there is an odd mix of instrumentals from Goblin and Simon Boswell with tunes from metal groups like Iron Maiden and Motorhead ( I found it amusing how Maidens ' tune " Flash of the Blade " would just start playing at certain points ) . I was also pleasantly amused by the reverence that the script has for the insect world ; this was one of those instances where the exposition was definitely interesting to hear . ( Connellys ' connection to insects does get utilized quite handily in the end . ) I watched the full-length version of the film running approximately one hour and 50 minutes ; there's also an alternate cut out there running one hour and 22 minutes , just so viewers are aware . Weird , intense , and hypnotic , it's worth catching for horror fans eager to seek out the work of the director . Look for Argentos ' daughter Fiore and future director Michele Soavi ( Soavi also being the 1st assistant director here ) in small roles .
Carpenters ' early and excellent foray into made-for-TV movies .	Leigh Michaels ( Lauren Hutton ) is the new director of live TV at a small time station who receives the attention of a frighteningly persistent psycho who continuously phones her . With her likable new love interest Paul Winkless ( David Birney ) and friendly co-worker Sophie ( Carpenters ' ex-wife and frequent performer Adrienne Barbeau ) to offer support , Leigh ultimately decides that she will have to take matters into her own hands . Carpenter had only had his debut " Dark Star " and " Assault on Precinct 13 " under his belt when taking the helm of this thriller . Mostly during the 1970's , he was a screenwriter for hire ( one example was the 1978 thriller " Eyes of Laura Mars " ) , but he proved to be up to the task of crafting this genuinely spooky and riveting story . Good jump scares and suspense sequences combine with good performances to make it a really entertaining film , showing that Carpenter could do solid work in the medium of television . It's well shot by Robert Hauser ( Carpenter had yet to form his partnership with ace cinematographer Dean Cundey ) and the music by Harry Sukman is excellent . Hutton is a likable and refreshingly loopy and neurotic heroine often given to talking to herself , at least in the early going . She even does her own potentially dangerous stunt at one point . Birney is very pleasant as her new boyfriend , and Barbeau very cute as the co-worker ; this was her first time working for Carpenter . In supporting roles , familiar faces like former Carpenter regular Charles Cyphers , James Murtaugh ( " The Howling " ) and Len Lesser ( ' Seinfeld ' ) can be seen . This marked a very busy period in Carpenters ' career , as he worked on this movie , filmed " Halloween " , and started work on ' Elvis ' all in the same year - very solid output over a short span of time . This is clearly not one of Carpenters ' better known works , but hopefully I and others can help to remedy that . It's now available on DVD and I hope that helps it to develop a larger audience . It's chilling and believable ( with a nice little nod to " Rear Window " at one point ) and a lot of fun .
Well worth seeing .	A psychiatrist ( Sigourney Weaver ) who's an expert on serial killers is targeted by a devious , brainy psycho who's intent on making history by paying homage to murders committed by monsters such as Berkowitz , Dahmer , and Bundy . While not totally without flaws ( yes , I can see some of the holes in the script ) , this is a slick , stylish , and professionally handled " cop vs . killer " story with a top-notch , A-list cast . It maintains interest for approximately two hours although it goes a little too astray from the main story at times . Did it really need the subplot involving detective Monahan ( Holly Hunter ) and her bitter ex-boyfriend ( and fellow detective ) Nicoletti ( played by Will Patton ) ? It makes the running time more padded out than it needs to be . However , I have seen it before , and it was worth watching again . That's an indicator of how successful it is at affecting me on a gut level . That character that Harry Connick , Jr . plays is just too creepy and disgusting for words ! Overall , as far as " cop vs . killer " movies go ( and there have been way too many of those ) , this one is pretty good . I gave it .
The boys are back in town ! ! !	Nick Nolte plays Jack Cates , an edgy , sullen , and world-weary San Francisco police detective who temporarily paroles young convict Reggie Hammond ( Eddie Murphy ) so Hammond can help him catch psychotic thief and murderer Albert Ganz ( James Remar ) . One of the first , and absolute best , " mismatched-partners " cop movies of all time , this is slick , funny , violent , and energetic . Nolte and Murphy make a good team . Murphy is especially funny , making his feature-film debut , as a smooth talker who's desperate to have some sex before he has to go back to prison . The scene where Hammond shakes things up in a redneck bar is admittedly one of the best scenes in the movie . It really is a fine cast ( unfortunately , Annette O'Toole , as Cates's long-suffering girlfriend , has nothing important to do ) that includes some actors who have worked with director / co-writer Walter Hill on a fairly regular basis . Many of the " mismatched-partners " cop movies released since this one just can't compare ( excepting the " Lethal Weapon " movies , in my opinion ) .
A truly gripping thriller .	Jim Halsey ( C . Thomas Howell ) is driving / delivering a car to a buyer in California , when he makes the mistake of picking up a hitchhiker who calls himself John Ryder ( Rutger Hauer ) . Ryder relentlessly pursues Halsey throughout the desert , appearing and disappearing at will , causing havoc and bloodshed wherever he appears . The Ryder character is a great role for the charismatic and handsome Hauer , who plays him as a truly enigmatic force of nature . Howell's Jim Halsey is kind of a crybaby at first , but as his resolve deepens and his survival instincts kick in , he becomes more interesting , likable , and easier to root for . An appealing Jennifer Jason Leigh is an unfortunate diner waitress unlucky enough to get caught up in the action ; her final scene is a memorably sadistic one . The typically solid Jeffrey DeMunn is a cool , calm , and collected rural sheriff , and other familiar faces like Billy Greenbush , Jack Thibeau , Gene Davis , and Armin Shimerman play small roles . The movie itself is an interesting and intense thriller ; it doesn't skimp on action ( there's some good vehicle stunts to enjoy ) or tension ; it begins on a nicely ominous , atmospheric note , and time and again , it delivers the goods . It's well directed , well edited , well photographed ( that's almost needless to say - the desert vistas in " The Hitcher " are gorgeous to look at ) and well scored . It doesn't necessarily always make sense , but it does work that way in that it resembles a twisted , existential nightmare . Entertaining from beginning to end , and a movie I would easily recommend to others . Followed by a direct-to-video sequel in 2003 , and a remake in
It certainly seemed simple enough . . .	Based on Scott B . Smith's novel ; scripted by the author himself . This is a story of three men ( Bill Paxton , Billy Bob Thornton , Brent Briscoe ) who find a staggering amount of cash in a downed airplane . Their decision to hold on to this money until they can figure out what to do with it turns out to be a very bad one . Before long , people are being murdered left and right , and the relationship of Paxton and Thornton ( who play brothers ) gets very strained indeed . An almost top-notch thriller with a compelling moral dilemma : what would any of us do in this situation ? To keep the money or not to keep it , that is the question . I think it's stretched out a bit long , but ultimately I understand it's necessary for the viewer to understand where these characters are coming from . The highlight of this movie is watching this cast at work , especially Thornton ( an Academy Award-nominee for his performance ) , who may make it a must-see even for those who aren't impressed with the movie otherwise . An ultimately very sad and bleak movie ( with an inspired wintry Minnesota setting ) about the horrible things that otherwise good people can be capable of . I give it .
An intense and gripping thriller .	A mysterious black Sedan appears in the desert outside the small town of Santa Ynez , New Mexico , and proceeds to mow down assorted townspeople . Stoic and reliable Sheriff Wade Parent ( a solid James Brolin ) and his men eventually realize something infinitely powerful is driving this demonic vehicle of death , and they unite in a frantic attempt to send it right back to Hell . Opening with a quote from Church of Satan founder Anton LaVey ( creative consultant on this movie ) , " The Car " perfectly creates a sense of fear . It begins on an ominous note , killing off two amiable bike-riding kids ( the girl played by future " The Young and the Restless " actress Melody Thomas Scott ) almost immediately . It's fun and exciting , but also quite bleak and despairing . It shows no mercy ( perhaps in deference to the evil nature of this vehicle , it kills off a bunch of nice folk while letting surly , repugnant wife-beater Amos ( R . G . Armstrong ) live and he even gets to help save the day during the climax ) . It's got some good shocks - rolling over two cop cars and destroying them without sustaining any serious damage itself , and crashing through a house to strike down a victim ) . It has both a good level of energy and some decent suspense . The characters are well delineated by a fine cast of familiar faces . Brolin is well supported by Kathleen Lloyd ( as Lauren , his new girlfriend who has the audacity to taunt and curse out the car ) , John Marley as Everett , Ronny Cox as Luke , the ineffectual deputy with a weakness for alcohol , and in a real treat , real-life sisters Kim and Kyle Richards together on screen as Brolin's daughters . The desolate desert landscape looks great thanks to Gerald Hirschfeld's Panavision cinematography . Leonard Rosenman's score is good and spooky , and the car P . o . V . shots add a nice , stylish touch . The movie should also get some credit for being fairly intense and creepy without falling back on graphic gore to make an impact . The movie also concludes on an impressively ambiguous final note . It's a fine thrill ride with a chilling overall air of relentless evil . That infernal honking of the car's horn becomes quite disconcerting especially when the car appears to celebrate each time a victim is claimed . I give it a strong recommendation .
Temper , Temper !	Failed hockey player Happy Gilmore ( Adam Sandler ) is persuaded by disabled former golf pro Chubbs Peterson ( athlete-turned-actor Carl Weathers , in an amusing character role ) to turn his attention to golf instead . When Happy's grandmother ( Frances Bay ) loses her home to the IRS , Happy has added incentive to start golfing so he can win a lot of money in a short amount of time . His biggest problem is his temper , which earns him notoriety on the greens , and his fiercest rival is a snobbish , arrogant golf pro ( Christopher McDonald ) who acts like he's God's gift to the game . The character of Happy Gilmore may not appeal to some viewers ; like other Adam Sandler characters , he's an infantile grouch with a tendency to blow his top and attack people . He even goes after the golf pro with a busted beer bottle at one point . Not a good sign . A publicist ( Julie Bowen ) finally convinces him to chill out but I'm still left wondering what is going to set Happy off next . Ultimately , though , the film does its job in making me laugh . It is pretty funny throughout , and the award-winning fight between Sandler and game show host Bob Barker is the highlight of the film . That's Sandler's frequent cohort Allen Covert as the windshield-washer who he hires as a caddy . Definitely one of Adam Sandler's better movies ; I give it .
The title is misleading . . . but it's still interesting .	In what may be the performance of his career , veteran character actor Dick Miller , who's popped up in LOTS of movies both big and small , plays Walter Paisley , a nerd and a wimp who works as a busboy in a coffee shop . He idolizes the beatniks and otherwise arty types who frequent the place and more than anything longs to be part of their crowd . His accidental killing of his landlady's cat jump-starts his short-lived career of creating amazingly lifelike sculptures . Sharp and very amusing black comedy , written by Charles B . Griffith , who also wrote the equally memorable " Little Shop of Horrors " , producer - director Roger Corman's follow up picture . " A Bucket of Blood " is a very modest , efficient little picture and benefits from effective performances . You'll notice there's really not much of a story , so the picture clocks in at the very short running time of an hour and six minutes . Best thing about it may be the interesting depiction of the beatnik / coffee shop crowd and scene from that era . Recommended to anyone who , if you are like me , is a fan of Miller - this guy has to rank as one of the most prolific and reliable of character actors in existence - I first noticed him in " Gremlins " and I think it's been good that he's emerged as a regular in Joe Dante's pictures since the 1970's . Decent viewing and hey , even if you don't like it , it's not like you have to sit through it for very long .
Here's a new reason to hate lawyers !	Mitch McDeere ( Tom Cruise ) is persuaded to join a prominent Memphis law firm , and everything seems so perfect that you just know it's too good to be true . And it is . The firm works for the Chicago mob , and for anybody who tries to leave the firm after learning the truth . . . well , need I say more ? The FBI , personified by agent Tarrance ( Ed Harris ) starts leaning on Mitch to supply them with evidence , but he knows that he can't just hand over confidential information about his clients . . . so what's a hotshot young lawyer to do ? Top-notch , slick , very classy legal thriller that is well-cast ( and well-acted ) right down the line . So engrossing , in fact , that it hardly seemed like two and a half hours went by while I watched it . Pretty good piano-based music score , too . The first John Grisham adaptation to reach the screen ( although The Pelican Brief was released just a few months later ) , this was notably well done . I give it .
Campy and cheesy B-picture is a lot of fun .	In this movies ' vision of the year 1999 ( it's amusing to watch this sort of thing now , since almost a decade has passed since the year portrayed in this film ) , gang violence has become very predominant across the country . One enterprising company named Megatech has come up with the solution : enlist a trio of cyborgs to educate these hardcore incorrigibles . As one might expect , the cyborgs give up the idea of education pretty quickly and decide they'll be better off simply eliminating the student bodies . Former gang banger Cody Culp ( Bradley Gregg ) , who's had a change of heart while in prison , becomes the hero of the piece as he mobilizes his cronies in a war against the teachers . The commentary isn't as biting as in director Mark Lesters ' original gangs-in-school cult classic " Class of 1984 " , nor does this film operate in a really " realistic " mode . Its standard vision of the future as a land of incredible societal breakdown and decay ain't exactly original , but it has a pretty good look , just the same . This belated follow-up basically ups the level of exaggeration and flamboyance , delivering an engaging little guilty pleasure of a film that simply entertains without dwelling too much on any statement that it's making . The action sequences and special effects are generally good for low-budget fare ; Lester keeps this plot moving along very well and gives us a decent final confrontation . Young actor Gregg , in his first starring role , does his best to project an air of rebellious cool , and his very gorgeous love interest Traci Lin is quite appealing . However , it's the adults here that take center stage , as John P . Ryan , Pam Grier , and Patrick Kilpatrick ( especially Ryan , who's just a blast ) have a field day as the ruthless teachers . Stacy Keach , as the mad scientist in charge of the project , is a truly delightful over-the-top ham , while Malcolm McDowell , in a change-of-pace good guy role , is quite solid . Complete with amusingly tacky wardrobes and the inclusion of punk and rock songs as cheesy as the movie itself , " Class of 1999 " hits the spot for anyone with a fondness for B-level entertainment . I had quite a good time watching it myself .
Good B-movie junk from the 1980's !	Several innocent people in NYC get slaughtered by a mysterious figure dressed as a cop . Police officer Jack Forrest ( Bruce Campbell ) is conveniently singled out to be the prime suspect , while detective Frank McCrae ( Tom Atkins ) tries to identify the real culprit . Solid , chilling little movie is an enjoyable guilty pleasure ; a sleazy and amusing combination of a standard cop movie and a standard slasher movie . It features a number of reliable B-movie veterans , although it is really veteran actress Sheree North that stands out . Character actor Robert Z'Dar , who plays the movie's disfigured villain , happens to have been a real-life Chicago policeman himself . It's certainly cool to have Bruce " Don't call me Ash " Campbell as the hero . Some additional scenes have been added featuring Ken Lerner and Leo Rossi ( you can also see them in the films " Hit List " and " Relentless " , director William Lustig's next two pictures ) . Lustig features his uncle , legendary boxer Jake La Motta , in a cameo , and also look for a cameo from director Sam Raimi as the reporter at the parade . I have to admit that I liked it . Another trivia note : after calling it quits as a director , Lustig went to work for Anchor Bay Entertainment , procuring titles and producing documentary shorts and DVD packages . He then went on to form his own company , " Blue Underground " , a company that specializes in bringing cult films to DVD . I was reasonably impressed to find that out . Followed by two sequels .
Violent Eurotrash movie packs a mean punch .	Robert Mitchums ' son Christopher ( who bears a definite resemblance to his legendary father ) is the laid-back lead and title character in this Italian / Spanish co-production , a crime and revenge story that delivers impressive doses of female flesh and nasty violence . Ricco has been in prison thanks to the machinations of Don Vito ( a marvelously scuzzy Arthur Kennedy ) . Vito has also murdered Riccos ' father , taken over his empire , and even taken Riccos ' girl Rosa ( Malisa Longo ) . Curiously , Ricco isn't that interested in getting his revenge ( for one thing , he didn't care a lot for his father ) , but is drawn into an inevitable final showdown just the same , affecting everybody else in his life . The absolutely stunning Barbara Bouchet , as the sexy con artist Scilla , and Longo are outstanding visual attractions ( Bouchet has one fantastic scene in the middle of a road that needs to be seen to be appreciated ) . Director Tulio Demicheli never hesitates to utilize their impressive assets , dishing out all of the sleazy and trashy goods that this movie has to offer with great relish . The scenes of utter , shocking , sadistic violence are especially potent - heads getting battered , innocent folks ( including Riccos ' wheelchair-bound mother ) shot to death , people getting acid baths , and the show-stopping punishment doled out to one horny and unlucky mob flunky . Mitchum is a rather amiable , self-confident , yet low-key lead who's easy to watch , although his fight scenes are indeed hard to swallow . Kennedy is a fantastic villain here , doing a great job of chewing the scenery . " Ricco " is an enjoyably dark mix of sex and brutality that is sure to titillate and entertain fans of exploitation .
" Holy s # # t , it's the attack of Eddie Munster ! "	Lucy ( Dianne Wiest ) moves with her sons Michael ( Jason Patric ) and Sam ( Corey Haim ) to California where Michael gets mixed up with local teenage gang , headed by David ( Kiefer Sutherland ) , that is actually a group of vampires . " The Lost Boys " is an entertaining modern vampire movie with lots of flash , style , 1980's music , and flamboyant effects and interesting design . There's no substance to this picture , but I don't think that the film-makers cared about that . No , they just made a picture strictly catered to the young crowd that is really just for straightforward fun . Don't worry about looking for hidden meanings or symbolism . David and his gang are a cool-looking bunch with two members ( Brooke McCarter , Billy Wirth ) who look like they could have been part of a rock group and the third guy is played by Alex Winter - a . k . a . " Bill " of " Bill & Ted " . The young cast is okay ; I would only have real criticisms for Jami Gertz's ' performance ' . Wiest , as usual , is excellent , and seasoned performer Edward Herrmann kind of looks out of place but he makes up for it with a typically good performance . Echo and the Bunnymen do a good cover of the Doors ' " People Are Strange " and Roger Daltrey does an equally fine cover of Elton Johns ' " Don't Let The Sun Go Down On Me " . " The Lost Boys " is fun if never truly scary .
A fine werewolf tale from Hammer .	Based on the novel " The Werewolf of Paris " by Guy Endore but set in Spain , this effective little story starts with a beggar being imprisoned by a nasty nobleman . This poor soul turns feral after many years of confinement and ends up raping a mute servant girl before expiring . The girl gives birth to a son on Christmas day , which only results in tragedy : according to superstition , unwanted children born on this day are cursed . As the boy grows up , the curse comes to fruition , as he turns into a fanged and hairy beast during the full moon . A heartfelt , tragic story as the best werewolf stories often tend to be , the great Hammer Studios give this film a solid production . It's a visually rich picture shot in beautiful color , and it offers some moody and atmospheric sequences . Terence Fisher does a fine job of directing , as always , holding off the reveal of the werewolf as long as possible , and delivering a striking climax . The proliferation of British accents in a story set in Spain is distracting , although never unbearably so . The acting is the best component . Oliver Reed is quite believable as Leon , the agitated and desperate and , most importantly , very likable victim . An extremely impressive supporting cast includes Clifford Evans , Yvonne Romain , Catherine Feller , Anthony Dawson , Richard Wordsworth , Hira Talfrey , Justin Walters , John Gabriel , Warren Mitchell , and Michael Ripper . Dawson in particular amused me as the cruel and depraved Marques Siniestro , with Walters quite adorable in the role of Leon as a child . It's too bad Hammer never made another werewolf film ; they did excellent work with this one .
A fun and funky blast of choice blaxploitation .	Cooler-than-cool Isaac Hayes essays the title role here , a slick former football pro turned skip tracer . He and partner Jerry ( amiable Alan Weeks ) go after thuggish pimp Gator ( Paul Harris ) and are forced to shoot and kill the cretin when he refuses to go quietly . This incurs the lethal wrath of Gators ' woman Dorinda ( Nichelle Nichols , a long , long way from Lt . Uhura of ' Star Trek ' and a lot of fun as a foul-mouthed and very nasty dragon lady villainess ) . She appeals to her fellow lowlifes to bump off Truck , not the least of which is super-smooth Harvard Blue ( Yaphet Kotto ) . " Truck Turner " is one of the livelier movies of its kind that I've seen . Director Jonathan Kaplan doles out energetic action sequences that unfold at a breakneck pace , including both car chases and fight scenes . It's also humorous at times ( check out the " funeral for a pimp " sequence ) and offers a smashing climax with one hilarious gag of a blood bag being shot during an operation ( ! ) . The music , naturally supplied by Mr . Hayes himself , is the perfect accompaniment . Kotto is solid as always and a fine presence on screen , while Annazette Chase is one very sexy lady and an appropriately spunky love interest for our lean and mean hero . There are plenty of familiar faces filling out small roles admirably , including Charles Cyphers , Dick Miller , " Scatman " Crothers , Stan Shaw , Henry Kingi , Don Megowan , Matthew ' Stymie ' Beard , and Kaplan film regular Johnny Ray McGhee . A no-foolin ' around , engaging dose of 70's grooviness , " Truck Turner " hits the spot for fans of the blaxploitation genre .
Don't forget a steady supply of body bags . . .	Dramatic action classic features Sylvester Stallone as one of his two iconic film characters ( the other being Rocky Balboa , of course ) : John Rambo is a sullen and traumatized Vietnam veteran who starts his own private war in the Northwestern United States when ignorant , bullying small-town sheriff Will Teasle ( Brian Dennehy ) pushes him too far . Rambo's long-ago superior , Col . Trautman ( Richard Crenna ) comes in to try to talk some sense into him . I'm not really interested in the political views involved in such a movie ; all I know is that this movie has kept me entertained for years . It's slick as all get out , violent , energetic , amusing , and well acted ( especially by Dennehy ) ; heck , some of those forest scenes are even suspenseful . David Caruso has one of his earliest film roles as the young deputy Mitch . Jerry Goldsmith's music score is memorable and the closing song ( " It's A Long Road " ) sung by Dan Hill ( better known for his sappy love ballads ) is pretty good too . The script is the only drawback because it suffers from some holes and implausibilities that some people may not be prepared to put up with . Filmed in the town of Hope in British Columbia , Canada , and followed by two sequels that are very much typical macho action movies . I'm not ashamed to admit that I really enjoy " First Blood " .
Grim and grisly grocery store slaughter .	The staff of a grocery store , on the night that they're told that they will soon have to find new jobs , are lined up for slaughter by a nasty and most sadistic maniac , in this very enjoyable late entry in the slasher film cycle . Director Scott Spiegel goes a little overboard in the early going with his crazy ideas of where to place the camera , but eventually settles down and crafts a fine and entertaining film of its kind . He stages his many stalking and slashing sequences with considerable flair ; the K . N . B . group , in one of their earlier gigs , supply him with some eye-popping splatter . It's pretty good for a low budget flick . Suffice it to say that our killer here really makes excellent use of all the tools at hand . The grocery store makes for a rather effective setting . Decent pacing , plenty of darker-than-dark humor ( it was a real kick seeing a guy get beat down by a severed head ! ) , spooky music , a good final act , and a downer of a finish add to the surprising effectiveness of this little picture . The acting from the likable cast is variable ; Dan Hicks is an undeniable standout as Bill , although it's really cool to see director Sam Raimi and his actor brother Ted among the assorted victims . Very brief cameos by the likes of Bruce Campbell and Alvy Moore certainly don't hurt . The cute Renee Estevez ( " Sleepaway Camp II : Unhappy Campers " ) is an appealing presence for the duration of her role . Concocted by genre veteran Spiegel along with future film producer Lawrence Bender ( whose noteworthy credits include his association with Quentin Tarantino ) , this is a real fun hoot of a slasher film certain to appeal to fans of the genre .
" People always go away so they can forget where they were " .	Director George A . Romeros ' own personal favorite out of his entire oeuvre is a thoughtful , and original take on vampire tales . The title character is a young man , believably portrayed by debuting John Amplas , who believes himself to be a vampire . He's had this idea drilled into his head for a long time , especially by his Old World uncle Cuda ( Lincoln Maazel ) . He becomes quite close to the lonely Mrs . Santini ( Elyane Nadeau ) as well as Christina ( Christine Forrest ) , who comes to stay with him and Cuda . This was a refreshing change of pace for me , as I'm sure it must have been for Romero and company when they made this approximately thirty years ago . An effective character study , it's not at all your typical horror film , although we are treated to some bizarre and provocative murder sequences , and some very surreal black & white flashbacks . It's a highly intriguing mixture that results in a one-of-a-kind film . In another amusing twist , Martin's frequent calls to a radio call-in show result in his becoming a celebrity of sorts , although the host clearly just thinks of him as entertainment and doesn't take him seriously . Tom Savini , in his very first association with Romero , supplies the makeup effects and stunts , and even co-stars in a small role ( sans his trademark mustache ) . Donald Rubinstein contributes a striking music score that is decidedly odd at times but adds to the overall feel of the film . The shooting location of Braddock , Pennsylvania adds a run-down quality to it as well . What ultimately makes it work , I feel , is that Amplas really creates a memorable , compelling focal point for the movie . Romero himself has a cameo role in the film as Father Howard . Although this film may get overshadowed by the directors ' more famous works like his " . . . of the Dead " series , that doesn't make it any less effective . It's a good little shocker , and it's certainly got my respect .
A pleasure to watch in a variety of ways .	Fran ( Marianne Morris ) and Miriam ( Anulka ) are two mesmerizing bisexual beauties in this 1974 entry in the erotic vampire film cycle of the 1970's . They prey on unwary motorists , but bring some trouble on themselves in acquiring their newest victim , Ted ( Murray Brown ) . In their vicinity are two vacationing lovers , John ( Brian Deacon ) and Harriet ( Sally Faulkner ) and Harriet is immediately suspicious of them . " Vampyres " is a fun film to watch . It could have been treated as camp , but is rather effective as a serious horror film as well as a delicious arrangement of eye candy . The brunette Morris and the blonde Anulka are absolutely fetching and look good both in and out of clothes ( There's no fooling around here : the first dose of nudity occurs about 20 seconds into the movie ! ) . The sex scenes are all quite enticing ; the ladies have an especially effective shower scene . As befitting any vampire film , we're also entertained with a generous dose of the red stuff . The scenes of violence work excellently , particularly because much of the film consists of build-ups to these scenes , and when they come , they're enjoyably shocking and graphic . The horror elements are strong , to boot . Filmed in the autumn ( over a span of three weeks ) , the almost always overcast sky adds the perfect sense of foreboding . There are decent scenes of suspense and many shots that are quite simply atmospheric and chilling . The cinematography and music score are truly strong contributions to the overall moody feel of the film . It's all packaged and directed very capably by Jose Ramon Larraz , who gets the most out of his budget , cast , and crew . It worked for me as studies in not just desire , but obsession - whether it be Frans ' growing feelings for Ted , Teds ' lust for Fran , or Harriets ' morbid curiosity - and as good , old-fashioned entertainment . It's a sexy vampire story worthy of discovery or re-discovery .
Thoroughly entertaining nature-strikes-back horror scores a bulls-eye .	Arizona veterinarian " Rack " Hansen ( William Shatner ) probes the death of farmer Walter Colbys ' ( Woody Strode ) prize calf ; entomologist Diane Ashley ( Tiffany Bolling ) shows up to inform them that the cause of death was spider venom . Then the culprits - a seemingly never-ending army of tarantulas - show up to terrorize all the locals . I was pleasantly surprised by how much I ended up liking this B level rural horror movie . It builds slowly but surely to a squirm-inducing climax with more tarantulas than I've ever seen in a motion picture . A fair portion of the budget for this picture went towards collecting the little stars , and boy does it show . In its final third , the film delivers some good , solid , creepy scenes . Hansens ' niece Linda ( Natasha Ryan ) on a swing , surrounded by the small menaces , a pilot trapped in his own crop duster , unable to get away from the critters , Colbys ' unfortunate wife Birch ( Altovise Davis ) actually shooting a spider off of her hand , and so forth . The images of victims covered in webbing is also chillingly effective . The cast delivers engaging performances right down the line ; other fine performers in the cast include Lieux Dressler , Roy Engel , and Hoke Howell . It's not entirely free from " Jaws " references : the ignorant mayor ( Engel ) concerns himself more with the towns ' financial success than his citizens ' survival . Marked by a nicely realized downbeat ending , that ensures that this picture will stick in my memory instead of quickly fading . It's directed efficiently by John " Bud " Cardos , with first-rate animal action . I'm glad I caught this one ; it's a good picture of its kind and I'd recommend it to others .
Intriguingly grim and creepy little film .	Actor Laurence Harvey made his final feature film appearance in this interesting mid-70's shocker which he also directed ( and also apparently helped to edit while on his deathbed ) . The Oscar nominee plays Jason Henry , living in seclusion with sister Grace ( the beautiful Joanna Pettet ) . Into their lives comes young hippie / hitchhiker Robbin ( the absolutely stunning Meg Foster , in one of her earliest roles ) , who while wandering their house discovers Jason's secret predilection : butchering ( and supposedly eating ) human victims . The solid supporting cast includes John Ireland as an uptight sheriff up for a re-election , Stuart Whitman as his deputy , Gloria LeRoy as ill-fated hooker Ginger , David Macklin as the kindly hospital employee who helps Robbin , Altovise Davis as Deputy Molly , and Jesse Vint as the reckless hot rodder whose actions get the movie off to a lively start . The movie then settles down as it establishes a certain sordid and trashy atmosphere ( Jason and Grace are more than siblings ) and general feeling of doom and gloom . Aside from one rather stylish and in-your-face killing that doesn't skimp on the blood , the movie isn't as explicit as one might think . Its pace is on the slow side but at least this allows for the three main characters to make a memorable impression . Foster is quite appealing and sympathetic ( even taking off her clothes at one point ) , while Harvey is good as the sort of person who manages to hide their disturbed nature under a veil of warm hospitality . Good theme song ( sung by Lou Rawls ) is another nice touch , although its presence is incongruous . This seemed to be a little bit of a theme for the decade . This and other elements definitely establish this film as a period piece , but that also helps it to be something of a real curiosity . It's an effectively seedy film and well worth a look for fans of this sort of thing .
Enjoyable late 70's low-budget horror flick .	A group of young adults get stranded in the back of the beyond , where the only place in the vicinity is a museum full of wax dummies , and the only form of help is affable local Mr . Slausen ( Chuck Connors ) . As night falls , the kids get picked off in record time . An odd , freaky B movie that combines the creepiness of backwoods settings with the plot device of all-too-lifelike mannequins ( making this a good update of the " bodies in the wax museum " genre ) , this is an intense shock fest along the lines of " The Texas Chain Saw Massacre " . ( It should then come as no surprise that TCSM art director Robert A . Burns repeats that duty here , and his eye for great set decoration always comes in handy . ) Pino Donaggios ' score is downright chilling ; accompanied by the murky photography of Nicholas von Sternberg , it drenches the film in oppressive atmosphere . Plot twists vary in level of success ; there was one that I saw coming a mile away , and one that actually took me by surprise , and I was all the more happier for it . One of the best moments is shared with us almost right up front , as the first chump victim is trapped in a room with objects flying at him of their own volition . The capper is a great impalement by pipe with blood dripping out of the end . Star Connors offers an engaging performance as our down-home good ol ' boy antagonist , while the younger co-stars , predictably , can't perform at the same level , although Jocelyn Jones is a likable enough and certainly winsome lady who has enough appeal to rate as a sympathetic damsel-in-distress . Co-star Tanya Roberts ( a brunette in this film ) is okay in support . ( If I had one problem with this film , it's just that the victims are a little too stupid . Then again , that doesn't make this much different from many horror films of the 80's . ) Future notable names among the credits are future directors Ted Nicolaou , who was the editor here , Ron Underwood ( who made a great debut almost a dozen years later with " Tremors " ) as the assistant director , and veteran makeup artist Ve Neill , who's done many films and won three Oscars since . Although some horror fans may be disappointed by the lack of nudity and sexual elements , this is otherwise a nice little surprise that debuting director David Schmoeller delivers with conviction and gusto . Recommended .
The real star of the movie is obviously Rick Baker .	Astronaut Steve West ( Alex Rebar ) and his comrades undertake a space mission that sees them flying through the rings of Saturn . His comrades are killed instantly , but it would seem that they are in fact the lucky ones . Steve returns to Earth a constantly oozing mass of humanoid pulp ; as he turns into a savage killer , melting every step of the way , he is tracked by his friend , Dr . Ted Nelson ( Burr DeBenning ) . This is often so uproariously funny - with enough absurd lines and situations to go around - that it's hard for me to believe that the laughs are all unintentional . It seems to me to be kind of a goof on low-budget genre efforts from the ' 50's and 60's , and as such , it's a marvelously entertaining movie . That sequence with the nurse is simply hilarious . We're even treated to a split screen sequence that doesn't really add anything , but is still a gas to watch . Writer / director William Sachs deserves credit for coming up with this ingenious idea ; his ultra-slimy character is a memorable one indeed . I think his pacing is a little off ; some scenes ( like the one with the elderly couple ) go on a little long , but ultimately he delivers solid , schlocky , B-movie goods with a degree of panache . The climax is especially fun . Arlon Obers ' music is enjoyably shuddery ( yet also amusingly silly during some moments ) , and Willy Curtis's cinematography creates some really great shots at times . That brings me to Rick Bakers ' fantastic and convincing makeup effects , which form a highly respectable centerpiece for the movie , right down to the ultimate final melt . Rebar is under the heavy makeup for almost the entire movie ( Sachs also gets my praise for having the movie hit the ground running ) and does what he has to do well enough . DeBenning makes for a rather oafish and silly hero , and Ann Sweeney isn't so hot either as his wife , but Myron Healey , Michael Alldredge , and Lisle Wilson are fine in support . It's also worth it to see folk like Cheryl " Rainbeaux " Smith ( doing an appreciable topless shot ) , Janus Blythe ( of Tobe Hoopers ' " Eaten Alive " and Wes Cravens ' " The Hills Have Eyes " ) , and even director Jonathan Demme in a bit part . This is a highly entertaining midnight movie with enough gore , chills , and laughs to rate it as worth catching for lovers of low-grade sci-fi / horror everywhere .
Christopher Lee makes a triumphant return to one of his best-known roles .	Very entertaining belated sequel to " Horror of Dracula " in which two vacationing couples - Charles ( Francis Matthews ) & Dianna ( Suzan Farmer ) and Alan ( Charles Tingwell ) & Helen ( Barbara Shelley ) - are lured to Draculas ' castle . The good count is resurrected that very night by loyal servant Klove ( Philip Latham ) and proceeds to terrorize the locals all over again . Although it took some convincing to get Lee to reprise the role , it was worth the wait ( a sort-of sequel named " The Brides of Dracula " had been released in between ) . He plays Dracula with utter , mesmerizing menace and the silence of the character makes him much more animal-like ( although , in truth , Lee played the role silent because he thought Draculas ' dialog was abysmal ) . The other actors do fine in support ; as is always the case for Hammer shockers , the ladies present are quite lovely and bewitching , especially Farmer , who also had the additional task of dubbing Shelleys ' screams . Andrew Keir is a solid standout as the gruff , no-nonsense Father Sandor , who proves to be very helpful indeed . The film is quite atmospheric , with darkness effectively blanketing many shots . Nicely shot in Technovision by Michael Reed , with appropriate sets by Bernard Robinson . James Bernard supplies one of his many ominous , grandiose , and unsettling music scores . Genuinely spooky from beginning to end , there's some wonderful suspense to be enjoyed here , as well as some decent effects . The mood is always oppressive and grim , and the climax is incredibly rousing , with an unconventional demise this time for our villain . It's a very good entry in the series . Followed in 1968 by " Dracula Has Risen from the Grave " .
As sexy as a B movie gets . . .	This endearing bit of 1970's era schlock is about a maniacal plan to turn unsuspecting women into sex-driven predators who are determined to make sure that the local male population dies happy , if you know what I mean . Government agent Neil Agar ( tough and stolid B movie veteran William Smith , looking quite handsome here ) is called in to help the local cops solve the bizarre deaths . ' The Prize is Right ' model Anitra Ford is an incredibly alluring villainess , with Playboy playmate Victoria Vetri providing equally eye-catching support as the brainy cohort who helps Agar save the day . This would qualify as my newest guilty pleasure ; it's technically not all that good , but that's hardly the point . It's one phenomenally sexy movie - women are shown in various stages of undress throughout , and they're all real lookers . That provides the extra kick the movie needs , although it's hard to hate an unabashed schlock film that's so gleefully ridiculous . It moves at a decent clip , and is nicely underscored by a fun music score by Charles Bernstein . When even some of the big time critics give it their approval , you know you've really got something here . Recommended to lovers of B movies everywhere .
Very likable and funny horror for a younger audience .	Entertaining PG-13 extravaganza for the kid in all of us . Dracula ( a dapper Duncan Regehr ) materializes in modern times , rounding up other such horror movie icons as The Mummy , The Wolf Man , The Gill Man , and Frankensteins ' monster ( Tom Noonan ) . Dracula is in search of a special amulet and needs his fellow creatures ' assistance in pursuit of his goal . However , he didn't count on the title group - a rambunctious group of pre-teens who have devoted themselves to the horror genre . Would I say that this is all that good ? Not really , but there's just something very endearing about it , especially if you yourself became a horror junkie at a reasonably young age , as I did . It's full of some truly hysterical jargon that had me laughing out loud : " dweeb " , " feeb " , " jerkoid " , etc . I didn't take this too seriously , and I had fun with it . The young cast is nicely exuberant , adding to the overall good vibes that the movie provides . ( Ashley Bank as Phoebe and Michael Faustino as Eugene are just adorable . ) The adult co-stars , while largely in the background , offer some solid support , with Stephen Macht as the Squad leaders ' ( Andre Gower ) detective dad , Mary Ellen Trainor as his mom , Jon Gries as the Wolf Man's human alter ego , Stan Shaw as the detectives ' partner , David Proval as a pilot , and two guys in particular who are wonderful and steal the show : the afore-mentioned Noonan , and Leonardo Cimino as Scary German Guy ( that is one of the funniest character names that I've heard in a while ) . Stan Winston and his team crafted the genuinely cool-looking creature characters , and Richard Edlund and his Boss Film Corporation provided the razzle-dazzle special effects . Bruce Broughton also gives the movie an appropriate music score . Filmed in the wider-than-usual Panavision aspect ratio , the picture looks pretty good overall . A lively , affable ode to vintage horror , made from a childs ' wide-eyed perspective , " The Monster Squad " may come off as too lame for some peoples ' tastes , but it's a real hoot for those who remember what it was like to enjoy the horror genre as youths . Oh . . . and the " Wolf Man's got nards " moment is hysterical . I thought that this was really cute , and really amusing . I wouldn't call it bland at all .
Good work by first-time director Bill Paxton .	Actor Paxton made his directorial debut with this chilling , dark , and competently made thriller about a widowed mechanic ( Paxton himself ) who ropes his two sons into participating in savage ax murders , claiming that the victims are not human beings at all but " demons " , and that they have been selected by God to destroy these " demons " . This is all told in flashback by one of the sons , now grown up ( Matthew McConaughey ) to skeptical FBI agent ( Powers Boothe ) . Hard to automatically forget this film ; better than most serial killer features , it's a twisty and unsettling tale told in straightforward fashion with a bare minimum of cinema gimmicks . Paxton , commendably , barely shows any blood at all until near the end . Well acted by all , especially the two child actors ( Jeremy Sumpter of the recent " Peter Pan " and Matt O'Leary of " Spy Kids 2 " and " Domestic Disturbance " ) . The only reason I deducted any points at all is because I can understand that some people may find all of this hard to stomach . In any event , it's an atypical thriller with a decent script .
Instant cult stuff .	Inventive , silly-as-can-be B movie that has simple , no-brainer fun with a ridiculous premise . Nasty alien beings that look like clowns arrive in the woods outside a small town . They have a variety of ingenious methods of disposing of their dumber-than-dumb human victims ( popcorn guns , anyone ? ) . Amiable goofball Mike ( Grant Cramer ) is an unlikely hero who teams up with his sweet girlfriend Debbies ' ( Suzanne Snyder ) policeman ex-boyfriend Dave ( John Allen Nelson ) to save the day . Of course , that's not to let out Mikes ' even goofier buddies the Terenzi brothers ( Peter Licassi and Michael Siegel ) who use an ice cream truck to pick up girls . The Chiodo brothers ( creators of effects for movies such as " Critters " ) hit upon as many circus-related gimmicks as they can . What other movie is going to give you a death by pies-to-the-face ? This movie is such spirited and tongue-in-cheek stuff that it's hard to resist . Genuinely gnarly looking clowns , excellent visual design , an efficient pace , and great gags add to the mix . And let's not forget a delightful title tune by The Dickies . Even in light of enjoyable performances by the leads , the show is stolen by the too briefly seen Royal Dano in a scenery-chewing part as an ill-fated farmer , and the great John Vernon who delivers his lines in a hilarious way . One fine moment has his line " you're not gonna make a dummy out of me " coming back to haunt him . While this is inevitably just going to come off as stupid to some viewers , I see it as a fun and easygoing kind of stupid . I have a good time watching it . Look for comedian Christopher Titus in a small part .
Thrill me , Mr . Dekker !	This well-loved 1986 movie is about an alien experiment that crashes to Earth in 1959 ; immediately , a slimy little alien slug leaps inside a guy's mouth and he ends up in cryogenic suspension for 27 years . First year university students Chris ( Jason Lively ) and J . C . ( Steve Marshall ) attempt to pilfer his corpse as a prank / frat initiation , but as you can imagine everything goes awry and the newly reanimated corpse starts shambling around and a zombie proliferation is soon underway . A likable little combination of horror and comedy , this self-referential B-movie actually has lots of fun being a B-movie ; it's solid entertainment , with some good lines ( especially one spoken by the always welcome Tom Atkins ) , it successfully walks the line between delivering scares and laughs . Proving that the trend of being self-referential in genre work did not start with " Scream " , but actually began many years earlier ( " Night of the Creeps " is just one example ) , writer / director Fred Dekker , in his film-making debut ( the same year , he provided the story for the equally comedic horror film " House " ) names several characters after big names in the genre : Romero , Hooper , Cronenberg , Cameron , Landis , and Raimi . The university is named Corman University , the name Cunningham is mentioned at one point , and even an Oriental janitor gets named Miner ( most likely referring to " House " director Steve Miner ) . The young lead characters are actually likable people , and Atkins delivers a great , entertaining performance . You'll also see a younger David Paymer as an ill-fated grad student / scientist , and a typically amusing cameo by B-movie legend Dick Miller . The movie moves along very well , and the gore and the creature work ( future notables such as Howard Berger and Robert Kurtzman are among the crew , and also play zombies ) are pretty good . I also enjoyed the music score by Barry De Vorzon . It's an enjoyable romp , a witty take on creepy-crawly and zombie tales and a guaranteed good time for genre fans .
An emotionally charged character study .	Terry ( John Savage ) has been in prison for two years for a sex crime . He returns home to his doting mother Thelma ( screen legend Ann Sothern ) , but it's obvious his mind has taken a fateful turn for the worse . A sullen , withdrawn , and brooding individual , Terry develops an unhealthy fixation on Thelmas ' new tenant Lori ( Cindy Williams , a long way from ' Laverne & Shirley ' ) , while he himself becomes an object of interest for repressed neighbor Louise ( Luana Anders ) . More than just simple low-budget exploitation , this obscure film from Curtis Harrington sometimes succumbs to conventions of a revenge thriller as Terry strikes back at both the girl ( Sue Bernard ) whose testimony put him away as well as the lawyer ( Ruth Roman ) whom he feels failed him . However , it's the performances and the interactions of the characters that really sell this film . A sad , sordid air of melancholia permeates this film ; it got under my skin and stayed there . An unnatural relationship between mother and son is nothing new to film , but it takes on a real potency here . The film is also full of such striking and disturbing scenes as Thelma photographing Terry in the shower , Terry demonstrating to elderly tenant Ms . Orland how a mouse trap works , Terrys ' truly creepy dream of lying in a crib on the beach and being doted on as if he truly were still an infant . Sothern and Savage deliver exceptional , memorable performances , with Williams , Anders , and Roman fine in support . This picture really needs to be better known . More interesting and thoughtful than one might expect it to be , it really hits a nerve . I can't recommend it enough .
A superior thriller !	Jane ( Pamela Franklin ) and Cathy ( Michele Dotrice ) are two comely young British nurses on a cycling trip in rural France . After they have a row spurned by Cathy's desire for an extended rest , Jane pedals off and leaves Cathy on her own . Before long , she's feeling guilty , and when Cathy never turns up anywhere that Jane goes , an increasingly nervous Jane finds that getting help from the locals is no easy task . Director Robert Feust ( " The Abominable Dr . Phibes " ) crafts an impressively taut thriller that works mainly because of its steadily escalating level of tension . Setting it in such a desolate region is another major plus considering the way that Cathy could have vanished into any number of places . There's no shortage of strangers that could conceivably be responsible . ( Sandor Eles is quite prominent as the scooter-riding Paul , although Jane can't be certain whether he's a help or a hindrance . ) Add this factor of paranoia and suspicion into the mix , and the ingredients are well mixed for a thriller that maintains a hard grip and doesn't let the viewer go until after the harrowing conclusion . Laurie Johnson's score strikes an amusing balance between more upbeat pieces ( like the opening titles theme ) and eerier ones . And the picture has very good atmosphere for a thriller set in the daytime ; it may as well be taking place at night considering how much in the dark Jane is figuratively . An interesting thing to note is that even though without English subtitles for the French dialog , it's not too hard to get the gist of what characters are saying . The cute Franklin does a fine job of engaging sympathy from the viewer , while even though she disappears early , Dotrice provides a fine contrast to the more serious-minded Franklin , making a strong enough impression in her time on screen . Eles is quite good in support , with equally effective contributions by John Nettleton as the gendarme , John Franklyn as the old man , Clare Kelly as the schoolmistress , and Hana Maria Pravda as Madame Lassal , essentially playing the part in horror fare of the older person with the warning ( when she manages to get out two English words : " Bad road " , it sends chills down the spine ) . This is very good stuff and recommended to thriller fans everywhere .
" This is my kind of place ! "	Foul-mouthed , hot-tempered criminal Seth Gecko ( George Clooney ) and his disgusting , idiotic brother Richie ( played by writer Quentin Tarantino ) leave a trail of bodies in their wake as they head for Mexico . They take a vacationing family ( Harvey Keitel , Juliette Lewis , Ernest Liu ) hostage and arrive at their intended rendezvous point : a phenomenally seedy , sleazy bar called " The Titty Twister . " Before long , they have learned the truth about the bar : all the staff are vampires who regularly prey on the customers . While the excesses of this movie are too much for conservative folk ( and especially film critics ) , this action-packed , spectacularly gory movie was fun for me ; it's like being in an intense , gruesome haunted house ride . The cast is enjoyable ; it's particularly noteworthy that Tarantino and director / editor Robert Rodriguez chose an interesting , off-the-wall collection of performers , including former " blaxploitation " star Fred Williamson , makeup effects expert Tom Savini ( as a biker named " Sex Machine " ! ) , and veteran movie heavy Marc Lawrence . It also provides an amusing showcase for Cheech Marin , who plays three small roles . The visual / makeup / creature effects design is impressive , although I must repeat that this movie is more for hardcore horror fans and some of you may find it repulsive ( and pointless ) . However , I say good job ! I give it !
Good and overlooked vampire film .	Kate Davis ( Chantal Contouri ) is abducted by a cult who inform her of her lineage ( she's supposed to be a descendant of real-life historical figure Elisabeth Bathory ) and believe that they can help fulfill her destiny . Confining her to a " farm " where they harvest human beings for their blood , they hope to convert her to the ways of vampirism and have her marry their leader . And they will resort to any means necessary to persuade her . The screenplay by John Pinkney offers up yet another interesting variation on vampire tales . Part corporate satire , part disturbing mood piece , and also a blood-drenched and intense horror story , the film delivers some good scenes and images . Particularly effective is seeing humans lined up in rows as the blood is pumped out of them . It manages to build up some sympathy for its imperiled heroine , putting her through some good nightmare sequences . It also comes up with some twists and turns here and there . Overall , director Rod Hardy and company succeed in creating an interesting vampire story for the modern ( circa 1979 ) age . Co-stars Max Phipps ( The Toadie in " The Road Warrior " ) , Rod Mullinar and Robert Thompson of another great Aussie horror film , " Patrick " , are fine , while the always cool Henry Silva has little to do as one of the cult members . David Hemmings of " Blow-Up " and " Deep Red " is solid as the lone sympathizer to Kate's predicament . But the cast member who's the most fun is Shirley Cameron as the ruthless Mrs . Cameron . Enhanced by a wonderfully spooky Brian May score , " Thirst " is a well made little shocker and worth seeking out .
A solid little thriller .	Dennis Pitt ( Anthony Perkins ) , a pathetic , eccentric young man being released from a mental institution after a long ago arson , is prone to fantasizing . When he spies luscious high school student Sue Ann Stepanek ( Tuesday Weld ) , he worms his way into her life by concocting an elaborate story about being a CIA agent . The lovely young lady seems a little too easily intrigued , willing to play along at every turn . Eventually , she reveals a disturbing true nature , and it's too late for the meek-hearted Dennis to back out . Weld offers a true standout performance while Perkins gets to do a bit of a variation on his infamous Norman Bates role . The two of them work well together , creating a great dynamic . Beverly Garland and John Randolph are also excellent in supporting roles . It's a highly amusing and offbeat and twisty movie , moving along very well and always maintaining interest . It's as unpredictable as Welds ' memorable character . That said , it really kicks into gear once Sue Ann starts taking over and Dennis is merely plodding along in her wake . The picturesque small town locale is a nice setting ; the cinematography is superb . It's a likable and engrossing film that does , indeed , deserve to be better known . I highly recommend it .
A sad , poignant tale of innocence lost , this is not your usual vampire tale .	Lila Lee ( 1970's drive-in flick star Cheryl " Rainbeaux " Smith ) is the angelic daughter of Alvin Lee , a gangster on the run . Lilas ' guardian is The Reverend ( played by director Richard Blackburn ) . One day , Lila receives a letter from a mystery lady named Lemora ( Lesley Gilb ) , who tells her that her father is dying and implores her to come . Lemora has other things on her mind than reuniting father and daughter , however . Smith is extremely appealing in her role ; she perfectly captures a sense of innocence , while Gilb is quite striking as the cagey and enigmatic Lemora . These two performances anchor a film that truly does live up to the idea that this is a childs ' version of a scary movie . It has the qualities of both a dream and a fairy tale ; it's atmospheric , full of dread , and sinister . Contributing substantially to the films ' impact are Dan Neufeld with his beautiful music , Robert Caramico with his moody photography , and Byrd Holland with his excellent - for - a - low - low - budget makeup and visual effects . Making this a period piece ( it's set in the late 1920's ) is also a nice touch . Worth noting is that it doesn't seem as if Lila can really trust anybody - even the reverends ' discomfort with her displays of affection reek of a repressed desire of sorts , lending an uncomfortable feeling to the proceedings . Also worth seeing for the brief eye-popping , hammy acting by co-star Hy Pyke as a deranged bus driver ; this guy provides the film with another can't miss moment . Overall , this is a poetic , mesmerizing little gem of a film , that resonates very strongly even after it's over .
Worth catching for hardcore horror fans .	Full-blooded horror story about two teen-aged sisters , Brigitte ( Emily Perkins ) and Ginger ( Katharine Isabelle ) who are both morbid , obsessed with death , and seemingly joined at the hip . One night , they are in a wooded area , on the edge of their suburb , intending to play a prank on a classmate . However , Ginger is attacked and mauled by a hairy beast , and from that point on the girls ' relationship is put to the ultimate test as Ginger begins to undergo radical changes . I have to say that I really enjoyed this one . The two leads are excellent , and this is an unflinching , intense addition to the werewolf sub-genre of horror movies . A lot of gore splattered throughout the movie gives it maximum shock value ( although this also means some viewers will be turned off ) . I'm pleased to see a great modern horror film come out of Canada , and I'm glad to see that others are too . Of course , some people may see it as being merely crude and excessive , but that's their prerogative . I'm not saying it's perfect ; some loose ends are left untied , but for me it doesn't hurt the movie as a whole . I'm glad to give it .
Well-wrought ghost story .	Four people , including parapsychologist Dr . Lionel Barrett ( Clive Revill ) and his wife Ann ( Gayle Hunnicutt ) , mental medium Florence Tanner ( Pamela Franklin ) and physical medium Ben Fischer ( Roddy McDowall ) investigate the psychic phenomena of a sprawling mansion with the expected skeletons in its closet . Adapted by Richard Matheson from his own novel , " The Legend of Hell House " is a skillfully orchestrated and acted horror drama with good performances and a subtle , menacing music score . It may not leave quite as much to the imagination as , say , the 1963 film version of Shirley Jackson's " The Haunting of Hill House " , but it doesn't go overboard , either . The effects are limited and are good and believable . The comparisons to " The Haunting " will be , I suppose , rather inevitable , but this film can stand on its own . This film introduces a scientific approach to the investigation rather than a scholarly one . Roddy McDowall contributes a standout performance in this exemplary cast ; there is a cameo appearance by a familiar face at the very end ( which , by the way , is rather low-key , flying in the face of horror films that usually demand some sort of frenetic conclusion ) . This is a good film , good enough to make me want to read the Matheson novel eventually . Director John Hough considers this to be one of his very best films , right up there with 1974's " Dirty Mary Crazy Larry " ( this is mentioned in the DVD commentary for the latter film ) .
Solid low-budget psychological horror that just oozes menace .	In a small rural community , a series of graphic murders - the murder weapon in this case is a pair of scissors - is baffling the police and terrifying the citizens . Forlorn farm woman Ingrid ( May Britt ) , who clearly has had a traumatic incident in her past , Ingrids ' uncle Carl ( Cameron Mitchell ) , and the local sheriff ( Aldo Ray ) are among those caught up in the nightmare . Writers Anne Marisse and Herb Freed ( Freed also co-produced and directed ) certainly have the right name for their movie . " Haunting " would be one apt word to use to describe this . The picture has a palpable sense of nasty and gloomy atmosphere that begins immediately and holds up right to the conclusion . The murders are graphic , and there's no shortage of suspects . It's overall a bizarre and extremely twisty movie that ultimately doesn't lead to any predictable finish ; Marisse and Freed came up with quite the plot indeed , with some remarkable revelations that don't stop coming until the end credits start rolling . The music by the ever reliable Pino Donaggio is beautifully eerie . The small town setting is incredibly well utilized by the film-makers and the rather murky photography simply adds to the gloomy feeling throughout . The acting is generally very good , especially by Britt , Mitchell , and Ray . While I have to wonder if the plot would hold up to close scrutiny , it still did a great job of reeling me in and maintaining my interest . Overall , this is a well realized , genuinely spooky low-budget horror film that's worth checking out . I'm certainly glad that I did . Freed went on to direct the horror features " Beyond Evil " and " Graduation Day " .
Definitely deserving of its cult status .	Director Richard Franklin and screenwriter Everett De Roche , who also gave us the great 1981 thriller " Roadgames " , team up here for this modest yet effective tale . The title character , played by Robert Thompson , murders his mum and her lover , then ends up in a comatose state for the next three years . As he lays in a bed in a private clinic , young Kathy Jacquard ( the cute and appealing Susan Penhaligon ) becomes the new nurse on staff and is assigned to watch him for the noon to nine PM shift . Kathy soon finds herself becoming attached to Patrick , and realizes that he can communicate with her . However , he also has psychokinetic abilities unencumbered by his condition , and he uses them to strike out at those around her . This film gets a lot out of its interesting and unconventional approach to what is ultimately a love story of sorts . It doesn't go the route of going overboard with special effects or atmosphere , and doesn't try to dazzle the viewer with any flashy film-making techniques . ( Even the finish is decidedly low-key . ) It merely tells a good story well , helped by decent performances , including Robert Helpmann , Rod Mullinar , Bruce Barry , Julia Blake , and Helen Hemingway . The sharp-featured Thompson has a certain presence on screen even though most of the time all he has to do is lie in bed and stare into space . " Patrick " delivers some good suspense as well as shocks and even has a touch of humor ( particularly amusing is a moment where Kathy is testing Patrick's sense of touch ) . The scenes in which Kathy and Patrick communicate are especially riveting . It also has an undeniably offbeat quality to it as well , as scenes with the stern Matron Cassidy ( Blake ) and Captain Fraser ( Walter Pym ) will show . The film is also helped immensely by Brian May's simply outstanding music score . This is the kind of film that while likely too slow and subtle for some folk , does have its rewards for patient viewers . It's highly recommended to those who want to dispense with more typical Hollywood fare .
Check your brain at the door and you may have a blast with this one .	Paula Powers ( Nancy Morgan ) defies snooty , filthy-rich jerk father Bigby ( Barry Cahill ) by taking off in his prized Rolls Royce , intending to marry lover Sam Freeman ( Ron Howard , also making his directorial debut here ) . As more and more people take off in pursuit of the two , it turns into a circus , especially when obnoxious super-DJ Curly Q . Brown ( Don Steele , in fine form as always ) makes the whole affair a media event . Ron is joined by actor-father Rance , with whom he wrote the script and whom also acts and takes an associate producer credit , and younger brother Clint , playing one of the many pursuers . Ron had taken the lead in the Roger Corman-produced " Eat My Dust " with the proviso that he get to direct a picture , and this was the result , a frenetic , energetic , and blatantly humorous B flick filled to the brim with plenty of action , stunts , and crashes . It's particularly fun to see Howards ' ' Happy Days ' mom Marion Ross as a foul-mouthed , high-society type with terrible driving skills and a surprising contempt for the law ! Paul Linke , as the annoying would-be fiancée , and Hoke Howell , as a preacher lured by the promise of a substantial monetary award , also get a mention here for their blustery portrayals . Other familiar faces in small roles include Ken Lerner , Paul Bartel , Garry Marshall , Leo Rossi , and the long-ago co-star of " Boys Town " turned reverend , Bobs Watson . It's very simple , unpretentious , mindless nonsense that , for what it is , is quite enjoyable . Howard particularly piles on the wreckage and chaos for a true slam-bang finish . It sure as heck ain't fine art , and that's the whole point . Deftly edited by Joe Dante , photographed by Gary Graver , and accompanied by a fun and funky music score by Peter Ivers , " Grand Theft Auto " is purely silly lowbrow action movie hijinks , and recommended to action and comedy fans everywhere .
An effectively disturbing little movie .	In this combination of sci-fi / horror and political conspiracy thriller , a company named Clonus is making copies of human beings ; these clones are kept docile and , for the most part , not particularly curious , in a facility in the California countryside where they're constantly being trained before they are sent to " America " , although they're being collected for a more sinister and selfish purpose . Trouble brews when one of the smarter clones , Richard ( Timothy Donnelly ) starts asking too many pointed questions . " Parts : The Clonus Horror " is effective at being both intelligent and delivering an assortment of thrills . The plotting is interesting and the pacing fairly efficient . ( It's worth noting that the movie does hit the ground running and establish the disquieting mood right away . ) While the revelations don't come off as being very surprising , it's still entertaining to watch and the larger moral statements that the movie makes are impossible to miss . One nightmare sequence in particular delivers a creepy feeling ; the movie also doesn't hesitate to show violence and gore when necessary . The presence of old acting pros like Peter Graves ( still a few years away from successfully sending himself up in " Airplane ! " ) , Keenan Wynn , and Dick Sargent helps lend the movie credibility . Star Timothy Donnelly may be on the bland side , but he's an adequate enough lead , and Paulette Breen is an undeniable knockout as his love interest . ( It's also worth noting that Frank Ashmore is in the movie too , since Graves and Ashmore were both among the flight crew in " Airplane ! " . ) It's too bad that this is the only substantial film credit for the director , Robert S . Fiveson ; he did a good enough job with this movie that we should have seen more from him over the years . But having this movie on his resume is not such a bad legacy to have . Smart , provocative , and uneasy , " Parts : The Clonus Horror " leads to an effectively bleak conclusion and delivers a good dose of low-budget genre fare to rate as a solid hour and a half of viewing .
Yes , I can say that the buzz is real . . . this is as good as people say .	Bloody historical epic as well as a period piece horror film , this takes place during a time of civil unrest in England , as Royalists are fighting the Parliamentary party for control . During this time , some unscrupulous people seek to eliminate the thorns in their side by exploiting superstitious fears , and accusing them of witchcraft . One such expert in these matters is Matthew Hopkins ( Vincent Price ) , who " proves " that the accused are in league with the devil ( his methods of interrogation are more akin to torture ) and then executes them . However , Hopkins makes the mistake of targeting the good-hearted uncle ( Rupert Davies ) of a lovely young lass ( Hilary Dwyer ) , whose new husband ( Ian Ogilvy ) swears vengeance . The last directing effort for a very young director named Michael Reeves ( he died before age 26 of a barbiturate overdose ) , he shows here that he could have had quite an extensive career had it not been cut tragically short . " Witchfinder General " ( also known under the alternate title of " Conqueror Worm " is a good and bloody , yet also stately and intelligent , tale . It's nicely rousing at times , with some good chase scenes on horseback . The music score by Paul Ferris is quite wonderful , and the quality of the photography is just superb . Price is very solidly under-stated as a cold-blooded villain ; in fact , I would be in agreement that it's simply one of his best performances captured on film . The handsome Ogilvy believably conveys a sense of conviction and determination , Davies is excellent as the doomed priest , and Dwyer is a very winsome female lead . Although for a supposed " horror " film this is really not scary at all , it still delivers good period flavor and a palpable sense of the paranoia and fear of the time . It's an intense and involving story and is compelling every step of the way , with not one dull moment to slow it down . It's a good film , and now that it's readily available on DVD , more people will have the ability to become aware of it .
A good deal of fun .	Smooth , dapper gangster Morgan ( a most enjoyable Robert Quarry ) desires the nightclub of a man named Langston ( Larry D . Johnson ) . Morgan is yet another of those " I won't take no for an answer " types and has his thugs beat Langston to death . Langston's furious lover Diana " Sugar " Hill ( the impressively gorgeous Marki Bey ) determines that Morgan and his goons will be made to pay . So she hooks up with aged voodoo practitioner Mama Maitresse ( Zara Cully ) , who conjures up the demonic Baron Samedi ( Don Pedro Colley ) , who in turns resurrects a group of zombies that go after the bad guys . The PG rating would explain why this is never as violent or sexy as it could ( and should ) be , but it's still quite a bit of macabre fun . Veteran producer Paul Maslansky , in a rare directing credit , infuses the proceedings with atmosphere . The music is typically dazzling for a blaxploitation flick ; the song " Supernatural Voodoo Woman " is a blast . Bey is a great lead in the Pam Grier mold - just as tough , independent , and sassy as she is sexy . The supporting cast ( also including Richard Lawson and Charles Robinson , ' Mac ' of ' Night Court ' fame ) is entertaining as well . Colley in particular looks like he's having a great time . The zombies themselves , their heads covered in cobwebs , are a nicely spooky and threatening looking bunch . The deaths are successful for suggesting extreme violence without actually showing it . " Sugar Hill " can stand alongside such fare as " Abby " , " Blacula " , and " J . D . ' s Revenge " as a fine and funky blaxploitation / horror combo .
That's Life .	Two young men ( Eddie Murphy and Martin Lawrence ) are paired together by circumstance in 1932 New York City ; while travelling in the South , they are framed for murder and are sent to Mississippi State Prison where they spend the majority of their lives ( over fifty years ! ) . For me , what really made it work was seeing Murphy and Lawrence work together , and they are really , really good . The material has both plenty of humor and some very serious , heartfelt moments . Other assets include Wyclef Jean's music score , amusing supporting performances by Obba Babatunde , Nick Cassavetes , Bernie Mac , et al . , and writing that is actually decent . Thanks to Rick Baker's fantastic makeup effects , Murphy's and Lawrence's characters actually look their ages at the different stages in the movie . It's one of the better movies that I've seen from either Murphy or Lawrence in the last few years ; it gets an from me .
Really good ; I always have a good time watching this one .	Third " Nightmare " movie in which Freddy continues to terrorize the dreams of the last of the Elm Street children . They all end up in the psychiatric wing of a hospital where dedicated doctor Neil Gordon ( Craig Wasson ) and original survivor Nancy Thompson ( Heather Langenkamp ) work overtime to help and protect them . One of the strongest entries in the series ( at least from my perspective ) , this shows more imagination than the second movie and the talents of the cast and crew are evident . At this point , Freddy was still a scary figure and the nightmares are well realized ( excellent special effects , too ) . I agree that there is good camaraderie among the young cast and that this entry shows a little more hope for the intended victims than other entries . Good , entertaining horror sequel . Among the four writers who worked on the screenplay are original " Nightmare " creator Wes Craven , director Chuck Russell , and future director Frank Darabont , based on a story by Craven and Bruce Wagner .
Don't expect a horror movie , and you might like it .	Amiable combination of dark comedy and thriller in which Craig Lewis ( Jeff East ) goes to college on a track scholarship . He makes friends with Barney ( Charles Martin Smith ) and they undergo initiation for entrance to a fraternity . They have to run in freezing cold weather wearing only jockstraps . When Barney falls and breaks his leg , Craig goes for help , only to come back and find Barney dead . The slick top dog of the fraternity , Rod ( a perfectly smarmy Brad David ) engineers a cover-up and forces Craig to participate , which really puts Craig through the ringer . I guessed at the outcome early on , and was proved correct , but there's still a certain fun in getting to the conclusion . It's a pretty engaging movie which ultimately works because Craig is easy enough to sympathize with . It's also fun hating David as Rod and Jim Boelsen as his flunky Phil ; they're a fine pair of antagonists . The only advice I will give to the unaware is not to expect anything remotely resembling a horror film ; it's anything but . Granted , I could have done without a sappy interlude featuring a cloying 70's style ballad , but that's a minor quibble . Working from an amusing screenplay by Bruce Shelly , debuting feature director Douglas Curtis maintains a decent pace , working the movie towards a silly but endearing ending . The cast also includes David Hayward , of such movies as Altmans ' " Nashville and Tobe Hoopers ' " Eaten Alive " , as Craigs ' loving older brother , and he figures prominently in that ending . The always solid Smith is fun in his brief time on screen , and Kelly Moran a real cutie as Craigs ' concerned girlfriend . I had a pretty good time with this one .
Smart and lots of fun to boot .	A very affable Nathan Baesel plays the title character , an aspiring slasher aiming to take his place among the greats - Jason , Freddy , Michael . His every move is followed by a documentary film crew - Angela Goethals , Britain Spellings and Ben Pace - as he makes preparations for his first mass slaughter . " Behind the Mask : The Rise of Leslie Vernon " is as clever and engaging a skewering of the slasher genre as I've ever seen . Superb dialog ( " You have to do lots of cardio to make it look like you're merely walking when everybody else is running ! " ) and situations do an excellent job at establishing a methodology behind murder sprees . Leslie plans everything down to the last detail , including expectations on how characters will act and re-act . He figures out who his " survivor girl " will be , and is delighted when he attracts an " Ahab " ( genre icon Robert Englund , doing a funny riff on Donald Pleasence's signature role of Dr . Loomis ) . He also finds the time to hook up with his mentor , now supposedly retired , played by the wonderful and under-rated veteran Scott Wilson . Wilson's dialog is particularly solid as he talks about the act of murder and considers it both a business and an art . There are also discussions about the nature of sexual symbolism , both phallic and yonic . Eventually , the movie shifts into another gear and reveals the grave seriousness behind Leslie's outgoing demeanor . Then we're in slightly more traditional slasher territory , but the movie continues to successfully subvert the genre's conventions , as Leslie is able to adjust admirably when his carefully constructed scenario seems to be going awry . There's a twist during the climax that is pulled off quite humorously . There's also an ultimate revelation to come although it doesn't come off as that surprising given the way the film-makers so gleefully play with us , and so well establish Leslie's cunning intelligence . Throw in an enjoyably gratuitous breast shot , a fair bit of graphic mayhem , and a cameo appearance by Zelda Rubinstein of " Poltergeist " fame , and the result is a movie that provides a welcome deconstruction of the slasher genre . It's both smart and entertaining and should provide some amusement for the genre's fans . Be sure to watch for the fleeting Kane Hodder cameo , and to stay through the end credits .
A lewd and likable lowbrow comedy .	This sexploitation comedy is just so upbeat and blatantly comedic it's hard to resist . The title girls have lives that pretty much revolve around sex . A new member of their team , Jeannie ( nude model Stephanie Fondue ) is a wallflower who is recruited because it isn't believed she'll get into the same trouble as the girl she's replacing ( i . e . pregnancy ) . However , her teammates vow to help her lose her virginity ! Paul Glickler supplies these amiable antics with pretty freewheeling direction . He gives all interested viewers exactly what they could hope for : lots of sex and lots of nudity . The girls are a very attractive bunch and look extremely good sans clothes . It's all appreciably raunchy and there's no pretense at following any sort of real plot . It's just about having a good time . All sexual encounters and escapades are played not just for prime titillation but full comedic potential . One of the funniest highlights is a wild bus ride . It includes so many freeze frames that one watching this on DVD may think their disc is skipping ! There are also hilarious uses of wipes . The dialog is absolutely priceless , and often involves rhyming : " I'm wise to the rise in your Levi's " and " Don't get your liver in a quiver " . The music is quite catchy , to boot . And everybody looks like they're having fun , regardless of the lack of actual " acting " . " The Cheerleaders " is agreeable trash from its spirited beginning to its raucous end .
A very interesting and original thriller .	As a follow-up to his wonderful tongue-in-cheek nature-strikes-back horror movie " Squirm " , the always original cult director Jeff Lieberman concocted this provocative thriller . It seems that the people who took an acid named Blue Sunshine 10 years ago at Stanford University are all of a sudden suffering delayed reactions . They're experiencing dramatic hair loss , and lapsing into psychotic episodes . Out to seek the truth is Jerry Zipkin ( Zalman King ) , who's erroneously assumed to have committed some murders actually committed by a friend at a party . Lieberman always has a knack for humor in his films , and this is no exception . Here he maintained in me a level of curiosity and interest , although I knew the whole set-up of the movie going in . The movie is marked by some good set pieces ; particularly horrendous is the sight of a murder victim shoved into a fireplace . The plot is genuinely intriguing , and Lieberman plays with the conventions of this type of film by having his protagonist not be terribly likable , and by having the supposed " villain " , a politician running for congress ( ' Lost in Space's ' Mark Goddard ) not being really evil at all but just a guy whose bad decisions in the past are now coming back to haunt him . The mood is always kept intense and reasonably creepy , and the director also maintains a snappy pace , with no dull sequences to have to sit through . The picture also has a purely 1970's vibe ; hairstyles and wardrobes and of course a climactic disco sequence strongly evoke the era . Future soft core director King is an acceptable if not especially dynamic lead ; the supporting cast includes Deborah Winters , Robert Walden , Charles Siebert , Ray Young , Ann Cooper , and Bill Adler . The crazed friend at the party is played by Richard Crystal - Billy Crystals ' brother , Stefan Gierasch and Alice Ghostley make very welcome guest appearances , and future prominent film heavy Brion James makes one of his earliest screen appearances as the drunk at the party who thinks he's a bird ( ! ) . Other elements adding to the films ' creepy feel are Charles Gross's eerie music and the striking sight of the victims in their bald or balding skulls . I recommend checking this out . It's a great early film from a director who always succeeds in crafting well made independent films with a difference .
Entertaining trash .	Virginal nice-guy high school teen Sean ( Jay North ) is seduced by his impossibly sexy teacher Diane ( a smokin ' hot Angel Tompkins ) in this nicely tawdry sleaze fest from Hikmet Avedis . Also lusting after Diane is Ralph ( veteran bad guy actor Anthony James ) , a pathetic , deranged creep who starts stalking after Sean as well after an accident in which Ralphs ' brother / Seans ' best friend falls to his death . This is a pretty engaging drive in treat that dishes out its serving of sex with great relish . Tompkins is well worth watching , offering a likable performance in addition to looking so delectable . Norths ' character is a little too timid at first but once he gives in to temptation , he looks totally relaxed . James is fine as the psycho , although it's true that he often comes across as too pathetic to be truly scary . Co-starring are Marlene Schmidt as Seans ' easygoing mother , Med Flory as his grumpy father , Barry Atwater ( the relentless vampire from the 1972 TV-movie fave " The Night Stalker " ) the local sheriff , and in cameo roles , the mothers of John Cassavetes and Gena Rowlands as prudish gawkers in a restaurant scene . Shorty Rogers ' funky jazz score is most amusing , although that theme song is just too silly for words . Overall , it's a nice little guilty pleasure ( with a surprisingly downbeat conclusion ) ; fun and sexy and just as enticing as its memorable female lead .
A good example of low budget horror movie-making .	This memorable cult classic from 1974 was the big breakout film for writer / composer / director Tobe Hooper . It's a story , one of several to be inspired by the exploits of Ed Gein , about five young people who travel to an old family home which unfortunately happens to be too close to the abode of an ultra creepy family who proceed to terrorize and butcher them . This modest little horror film is genuinely nerve-wracking and it particularly hammers away at you ( not to mention the victim ) in the last half hour . It also suggests its violence rather than actually showing it - not much blood is shown on camera . The characters may not be given much depth but they are at least reasonably likable , unlike some slasher movie victims . The actors ( Gunnar Hansen , as the iconic " Leatherface " , Jim Siedow , as " The Old Man " , and Edwin Neal , as " The Hitchhiker " ) playing the demented family are real standouts , especially Neal , whose character is overtly comedic . Kudos definitely goes to the art and prop department , who created some of the most creatively macabre decorations to be featured in a film of this kind . The music is appropriate , and the film has a grabber of an opening and a memorable final image . I would recommend this to those who have yet to see it - it's worth catching at least once .
Amiable dark comedy / splatterfest .	Ritchie ( Stephen Dorff ) is an American in Russia in debt to a mobster named Groznyi ( Sean Pertwee ) ; after screwing up a diamond robbery at the outset of the movie , Ritchie is given a final chance to pay up : obtain a cross from a family living in an apartment building . Saddled with a loose cannon accomplice who also has a weakling brother , Ritchie ends up taking hostages . However , he quickly finds out that someone is onto them - not the cops , but a sadistic bad guy with control of the building . Be prepared for some very juicy gore in this high-energy , outrageous , sometimes farcical trashy movie . I saw another user comment that refers to it as " splatstick " , which is an apt and hilarious way of putting it . Ridiculous situations are in plentiful supply , and the actors play it for all it's worth . Dorff is fun as a guy who comes off as a hapless schmuck at first , but ultimately proves to be efficient at dealing with his insane predicament . Jaime Murray is quite sexy as Anna , and Hugh O'Conor and Geoff Bell regularly steal all of their scenes as , respectively , Dmitry and Boris . Edward Baker Duly is downright campy , not in the least really menacing , but still pretty entertaining , as the flamboyant killer . This engaging bit of nonsense is packed to the brim with fine set pieces , delivered with gusto by first-time director Kit Ryan . The morbid humor is positively gut-busting , and it rates as a certifiably nutty and nasty bit of non-think entertainment .
A well-done thriller worth checking out or re-visiting .	William Petersen of ' C . S . I . ' fame plays Will Graham , a former FBI agent whose capture of brilliant psychopath Hannibal Lecter ( Brian Cox ) left him with both physical and psychological damage . He's living an idyllic life now in Florida when his old colleague Jack Crawford ( Dennis Farina ) implores him to help with a new case . A maniac who butchers entire families and goes on a lunar cycle is baffling the FBI and they need Will's insight to catch the killer before the next full moon . While the cinematic marketplace has been over-saturated with " cop vs . killer " films for a long time now , this film still stands tall as a fine example of its particular sub-genre . It's a fascinating look into all the technical aspects of solving crime , and is just a good , solid story ( based on the novel " Red Dragon " by Thomas Harris ) , to boot . It also tackles the then relatively untapped idea of psychologically profiling criminals . It's a solid , creepy thriller with a number of memorable sequences . The tall , soft-spoken great character actor Tom Noonan plays the adversary with the strong Jekyll-and-Hyde type personality . What's unexpected is that for a fair portion of the second half , the film becomes his story as we get to learn more about him , and even watch as he makes a connection with blind woman Reba , played remarkably well by the then up-and-coming Joan Allen . " Manhunter " first introduces us to the character of Hannibal Lecter so memorably etched in our minds by Anthony Hopkins ' charismatic scenery-chewing in " The Silence of the Lambs " . The excellent Brian Cox gives us a much subtler interpretation of the role , generating an air of true uneasiness especially in the way that he displays his own chilling insight into Graham's psyche . The atmospheric music score is reminiscent of the work of Tangerine Dream , and writer - director Michael Mann makes great use of the 2 . 35 : 1 aspect ratio . His cinematographer Dante Spinotti creates some very stylish visuals throughout . The increasingly tense climax makes fine use of the classic rock song " In-a-Gadda-da-Vida " . The main cast is rounded out with nice turns by Kim Greist as Will's concerned wife Molly and Stephen Lang as shameless tabloid writer Freddy Lounds . Turning up in small parts are such actors as Frankie Faison ( he being one constant in the film adaptations of the Lecter novels ) , Michael Talbott ( who was playing Detective Switek on the Mann-created TV series ' Miami Vice ' ) , Garcella Beauvais-Nilon , Dan Butler , Chris Elliott , Bill Smitrovich , Michael D . Roberts , Peter Maloney , and Patricia Charbonneau . Dr . Chilton , the slimy doctor in " Lambs " well played by Anthony Heald , turns up here as well and is played by Benjamin Hendrickson . " Manhunter " gets off to a good spooky start and entertains thoroughly for two hours straight . It's simply one of the better thrillers to come out of the 80's .
A compelling saga of revenge .	Madeleine ( Christina Lindberg ) is rendered mute after a horrible childhood rape . 15 years later , her life takes a new turn for the worse when , after missing a bus , she accepts a ride from Tony ( Heinz Hopf ) , who unsurprisingly turns out to be a real monster , getting her hooked on heroin and forcing her into working as a prostitute . Her spirit - she badly scratches a customers ' face - enrages Tony to the point where he gouges out her eye as punishment , obliging her to wear a patch from that point on . Madeline eventually can take no more . Targeting both her kinky customers ( including one lesbian ) and her boss , she uses her down time to plan revenge , receiving lessons in firearms , driving , and martial arts . She then goes about seeking retribution for everything that she has suffered . Although heavily exploitative - the full-length cut has violence aplenty and some especially graphic sex shot in close-up , this film has its arty and expressive side to it as well . It's often just as quiet as its main character , opting for a slow - very slow - and steady approach ( even the final action scenes are shot this way ) . However , its sense of grim inevitability and somber mood are quite affecting , and Madeleine is quite sympathetic and appealing as played by Lindberg . The incredibly winsome performer accomplishes just as much with facial expressions alone as she could with dialog . There are , in addition , shots from Madeleines ' P . O . V . to allow us to see through her eye ( s ) , and experience things from her perspective . We truly get a sense of a life irreparably shattered in " Thriller : A Cruel Picture " . Although sticking with it may require patience on the part of some viewers , it does offer its rewards .
Absolutely priceless stuff !	Prolific horror author Stephen King made his only directorial effort to date with this hilariously silly adaptation of his short story " Trucks " . It's so laughable , in fact , that I now believe King had to have had his tongue in his cheek making it . As the film opens , a text informs us that the Earth is passing into the tail of a " rogue comet " and will remain there for over a week . This is assumed to be the cause when just about every machine on the planet then rebels against the humans , slaughtering them in a gloriously graphic manner . It starts off with a mass accident on a bridge that sets the tone for the rest of the movie ( keep an eye out for Marla Maples during this sequence ! ) . King provides a deliriously high level of violence ; highlights include a killer soda machine and especially a runaway steamroller . The dialog is hysterical and quotable , and little touches like an unmanned ice cream truck playing Roger Miller's " King of the Road " work well . The pacing never drags and King displays an obvious enthusiasm for giving the audience a rip-roaring good time on a true no-brainer level . Emilio Estevez is Bill , our young hero , and is cool as always . Laura Harrington is Brett , the hitch-hiker who takes a very quick shine to him . Yeardley Smith , automatically recognizable as the voice of cartoon character Lisa Simpson , does a great job of being annoying in a very funny way . Christopher Murney as lecherous , blowhard Bible salesman Camp Loman and Ellen McElduff as the waitress Wanda June who comes unglued are likewise a real hoot . Some familiar and reliable character actors - Frankie Faison , J . C . Quinn , Leon Rippy , and Giancarlo Esposito - have minor roles . But stealing the show outright is the late , great veteran Pat Hingle , clearly having a blast as a shamelessly scuzzy white trash villain . With a soundtrack full of incidental music and actual tunes from the band AC / DC ( " Who Made Who " is one of my all-time favorite songs by them ) , a lead semi featuring the head of Spider-Man arch-nemesis The Green Goblin , and so much carnage and good laughs going for it , " Maximum Overdrive " is a highly agreeable dose of 80's horror cheese . The same story was filmed again in 1997 as the made-for-cable movie " Trucks " .
" We can live together as mates . "	Director Paul Schrader presents a " Cat People " for the 80's in what nowadays would probably be labeled a " re-imagining " . Working from a screenplay by Alan Ormsby , he crafts a compelling story of myth , sexual awakening , and obsession . While the classic 1942 version of the story is revered for its power of suggestion , Schrader's movie leaves little to the imagination . It truly is a different " beast " , but it has assets of its own . It's set in New Orleans , and virginal Irena Gallier ( Nastassia Kinski ) has just hooked up with long-lost brother Paul ( Malcolm McDowell ) . Irena falls in love with zoo curator Oliver Yates ( John Heard ) , but as will be explained , she and Paul are two of the title individuals , and if they have sex with anyone other than each other , it turns them into leopards and only by killing someone can they return to human form . New Orleans is the ideal setting for this twisted tale . It has such an atmosphere of its own that it adds greatly to the experience . More of an erotic fantasy with a strong European feel than horror ( although there's a fair share of creepy and very gory moments ) , it plays up Kinski's exotic allure every chance it gets , having her parade around naked often during the second half . Giorgio Moroder's electronic score is haunting ( as is the David Bowie song " Putting Out Fire ( With Gasoline ) " , heard over the closing credits ) , and Ferdinando Scarfiotti lends so much visual style to the movie that Schrader actually campaigned to have him credited as co-director . The contributions by the legendary Albert Whitlock shouldn't be overlooked , though , as he's also an integral part of the movie's look . Those opening scenes are highly impressive . Tom Burman supplies the generally good makeup effects . Kinski is a fine choice for the lead as she projects both innocence and untapped sexuality , with sterling support by McDowell , Heard , Annette O'Toole , Ruby Dee , Ed Begley Jr . , and Scott Paulin . Other familiar faces include Frankie Faison ( who is dubbed by Albert Hall ) , Lynn Lowry , John Larroquette , Marco St . John , and Ray Wise . This could easily be seen by some as excessive , indulgent trash , but for trash it's certainly artfully done , intriguing in terms of both story and style . It does make nods to the original movie - an encounter in a restaurant and especially an extended suspense sequence where O'Toole seems to be in jeopardy . But it puts its own 80's-era modern stamp on the basic premise and succeeds at what it does .
Very enjoyable .	Returning to the Western genre for the first time since " The Outlaw Josey Wales " , Clint Eastwood produced , directed , and acted in this tale of an unnamed soul , referred to only as " Preacher " , who supplies desperately needed support for a community of " tin panners " who mine for gold the hard way . A local tycoon named LaHood ( Richard Dysart ) who's using more advanced techniques is trying to muscle them out of their territory , using every thug and goon he can buy off . " Preacher " becomes particularly close to Hull Barret ( Michael Moriarty ) and Hulls ' fiancée Sarah ( Carrie Snodgress ) and Sarahs ' daughter Megan ( Sydney Penny ) , both of whom fall for the cagey and low-key stranger . It seems inevitable that any review submitted for this film would comment on its similarity to " Shane " and even Eastwoods ' own " High Plains Drifter " , and while the themes are all familiar , " Pale Rider " is still solidly entertaining and is certainly as well crafted as anything Eastwood's done . Magnificently photographed in Panavision by Bruce Surtees , there's some great scenery to enjoy . The film in general has a great look and feel , and Eastwood moves the plot along well , maintaining a feeling of hope for the miners but also a dark approach to the story to show that there will be prices to pay . While not as surreal or offbeat as " High Plains Drifter " , the film does have some mystical elements to it that add to the flavor and impact . The final showdown is reasonably suspenseful . Eastwoods ' subtle , soft-spoken portrayal is matched by many of his co-stars . Although traces of his standard eccentricity filter into his performance , Moriarty is quite solid as the decent and brave Hull . Snodgress and Penny both deliver heartfelt performances as the two primary female characters , with Penny displaying a touching amount of youthful innocence and naivety . Dysart is a wonderfully wicked bad guy , with John Russell adding another touch of menace late in the film as hired gun Stockdale . Many familiar faces - Richard " Jaws " Kiel , Doug McGrath ( the clueless deputy in the ' 74 " Black Christmas " ) , Charles Hallahan ( Dysarts ' co-star in John Carpenters ' " The Thing " ) , Marvin J . McIntyre , Fran Ryan , Richard Hamilton , Billy Drago , John Dennis Johnston , and Robert Winley - round out a very entertaining cast . While it doesn't reach a level of true greatness , " Pale Rider " is still an entertaining Western with a fair bit going for it .
" Two cops , wishing me luck . . . I'm doomed . "	Veteran director John Carpenter created a great , classic B thriller with this witty , stylish little piece - although it went virtually unnoticed at the time of its release , taking a while to develop a " cult " reputation . A small group of cops , secretaries and convicts are forced to band together in order to protect themselves from a street gang which has vowed to destroy them no matter what the cost . Confined to a single location - an isolated , nearly empty police station - they are attacked repeatedly throughout the night , with little to no chance of any cavalry riding to their rescue . Acknowledged as a modern , urban reworking of the 1959 Howard Hawks western " Rio Bravo " ( Carpenter even edited the picture himself , using the pseudonym ' John T . Chance ' , which was John Waynes ' character name in that movie ) , Carpenter creates a classic " Hawksian " woman in Laurie Zimmer's deliberately tough-as-nails and deadpan Leigh . He also gives great roles to two under-appreciated actors , Austin Stoker and Darwin Joston , as , respectively , the ambitious and practical Lieutenant Ethan Bishop and the cheerfully enigmatic Napoleon Wilson . It's a shame these actors never became more " mainstream " , as they delivered captivating , career-high performances here ( sadly , Joston has since passed on ) . Carpenter proves here , as he did so impressively in the early years of his career , that a film-maker does not need a great big budget to deliver potent thrills that really grab a viewer's attention . This is a picture that moves well , has some great dialog , and has some impressive atmosphere . It's fast , furious , and never boring . ( It must set some sort of record for the most squibs ever used in a low-budget picture . ) What really puts it over is one of his most memorable music scores ever , haunting and ominous - in my own opinion , just as good as the classic " Halloween " theme if not as commonly heard . Also included in the cast are future " Halloween " sheriff Charles Cyphers , in the first of six projects that he did with Carpenter , Nancy Loomis from " Halloween " and " The Fog " , former boxer Tony Burton - better known as the corner-man ' Duke ' from the entire " Rocky " series , Kim Richards from the " Witch Mountain " movies ( interesting that Carpenter would then work with Kim's sister Kyle in " Halloween " ! ) , veteran actor Henry Brandon , and an actor named Alan Koss , who any fan of ' Cheers ' will recognize as one of that series ' prominent background barflies . Beginning her association with Carpenter here , Debra Hill worked on this picture as the script supervisor and assistant editor , with Carpenter's longtime associate Tommy Lee Wallace working behind the scenes as well . If you are a fan of Carpenter , and actually have yet to see the original " Assault on Precinct 13 " , I advise you not to pass it up . It's simply , in my own humble opinion , one of the best things that he's ever done . Only " Halloween " and " The Thing " rank even higher in my books .
I've always enjoyed this particular Stephen King short story .	So to see it come to life is especially fun . William Hurt plays Jason Renshaw , a coldly efficient hit man who bumps off a toy company CEO in the opening minutes . Shortly after arriving back at his own apartment , he receives an unexpected package : an assortment of toy soldiers , weapons , and helicopters . As one might expect , these are no ordinary toys , and they wage war on the hit man . Hurt delivers a game performance in this entertaining debut episode of the ' Nightmares and Dreamscapes ' mini-series . Brian Henson ( son of legendary entertainer Jim H . ) directs with efficiency ; the episode moves along quite well . It has some good suspense and the special effects are quite good . The story doesn't waste any time trying to explain the far-fetched premise , it merely goes straight to the action . Also worth noting is an almost complete lack of dialog ; here the actions really do speak louder than the words . Jeff Beals ' music was another fine asset . Bruce Spence ( the Gyro Captain from two of the " Mad Max " pictures ) and the beautiful Mia Sara ( Sloane in the 80's favorite " Ferris Bueller's Day Off " ) also appear . The teleplay is by another second-generation talent , Richard Christian Matheson . This was a good way to kick off the mini-series .
An excellent vanguard zombie film .	Two young newlyweds on vacation in Haiti ( Madge Bellamy , John Harron ) fall victim to the machinations of sinister Murder Legendre ( the great Bela Lugosi ) . Murder is a sugar plantation boss who controls a legion of zombie helpers with the help of some zombie powder ; when the young couples ' host ( Robert Frazer ) decides to act on his overwhelming passion for the girl , he strikes a Faustian deal with the evil zombie master that leads to dreadful repercussions . Brothers Victor and Edward Halperin truly make the most out of a minuscule budget and a brief shooting schedule . This modest little fright feature is certainly as atmospheric as any of the Universal classics of the period , and is ambitiously arty , to boot . Director Victor gives it great touches ; his use of framing , " wipe " transitions , sound , and light and shadow is quite commendable . He moves it at a slow and steady pace , getting a most enjoyable performance out of Lugosi ; although most of the supporting roles are either over-played or under-played , it doesn't distract too much from a movie with a mesmerizing , moody feel and palpable sense of doom . Even the effect of having Lugosi look directly into the camera can make a viewer feel as if they are a part of the proceedings . The zombies themselves convey a certain sense of creepy menace ; whether there truly is any element of the supernatural involved in their existence is intriguingly kept ambiguous . Noteworthy as the first zombie movie , as well as a movie with no primary existing source material unlike " Dracula " or " Frankenstein " ( the film utilized a few different sources , including a factual book on Haiti ) , " White Zombie " - which was a commercial success in its time - is a nicely done early terror tale worth discovering . As you may guess , rocker / film-maker Rob Zombie took the name of his former band from this film .
More ghoulish fun with horror icons Lee and Cushing .	Emmanuel Hildern ( Peter Cushing ) is a scientist / researcher who believes that evil is actually a disease for which he intends to find a cure . He's discovered a very unusual skeleton , one that he hopes will throw all ideas of evolution out the window . Also part of the plot is his ( half ) brother James ( Christopher Lee ) , head of a mental hospital , who intends to compete against him for a prestigious scientific honor , and daughter Penelope ( Lorna Heilbron ) , born of a mother who'd gone insane and whom Emmanuel fervently hopes will not suffer the same fate . I give Peter Spenceley and Jonathan Rumbold credit for a marvelously ambitious and crafty script . As others here have noted , there's really enough plot threads here to fill out a couple of movies . The title phenomenon is just one of the ideas going on . The movie takes some interesting turns and leads to a fantastic twist ending . Colleagues Cushing and Lee do well in another of their many teamings , although there are stretches where one or the other is absent from the proceedings . Heilbron is absolutely lovely and appealing in the fine tradition of beautiful leading ladies in British horror films . Other fine actors such as George Benson , Duncan Lamont , and British horror mainstay Michael Ripper are solid in support . It's capably directed as always by horror veteran Freddie Francis , with decent period flavor and amusing special effects . Both the music by Paul Ferris and the cinematography by Norman Warwick are excellent . The movie builds in intensity until a climax when the real horror quotient of the film kicks into gear , with a rather interesting creature creation . I enjoyed this very much , and give it a hearty recommendation to other horror fans .
Peace And Understanding ? What A Novel Idea .	Klaatu ( Michael Rennie ) , a man from another planet , arrives on earth with a robot companion ( Lock Martin ) with the attention of addressing all the governments of Earth . He wants them to work towards peace and understanding , or Earth will be faced with the prospect of destruction . Forget about the cheesy effects and costumes , and concentrate instead on this movie's intelligence and still very potent message . Its intentions are certainly very honourable , and this will probably remain one of the highlights of director Robert Wise's lengthy career . Rennie plays his role with sincerity and is very believable - even if there's nothing even remotely alien-looking about him . There's also a decent music score by the legendary Bernard Herrmann ( the man who composed that infamous music score for Psycho ) . I think this is one of those films that is very much a product of its era ( this film , and The Thing From Another World , helped to usher in the science-fiction boom of the 1950's ) , but like I ( and many others , I'm sure ) agree , the message is timeless . I give it .
Enjoyable killer animal feature .	This is a genuinely gripping movie about abandoned dogs on a forest island which form a pack and go on a rampage . It's up to marine biologist Jerry ( an engaging Joe Don Baker ) to save his own family as well as some bankers and company who are on a fishing vacation . Comparisons to the previous years ' " Dogs " are appropriate , but this is definitely the better movie . Director Robert Clouse , whose credits include the martial arts classic " Enter the Dragon " , and who would go on to direct the rat-themed 1982 movie " Deadly Eyes " , maintains a deadly serious tone . The movie always creates the right amount of tension ; isolated settings and inclement weather also help to enhance the atmosphere . Unlike " Dogs " , this movie has better writing , a superior cast ( the fine supporting actors include such folk as Richard B . Shull , R . G . Armstrong , and Bibi Besch ) and more likable characters . Baker does a solid job as an amiable yet no-nonsense sort of action hero . Plus , the animal action is exceptional ( veteran trainer Karl Miller did a great job with these dogs ) and the attack scenes are well staged . The music score ( by Lee Holdridge ) is good , and the finale is fairly rousing . " The Pack " is good fun for fans of the killer animal genre . I myself enjoyed it very much . Just the way that it had something to say about human irresponsibility and its possible consequences adds to the overall impact .
A bright and original horror comedy .	Michael Laemle ( Bryan Madorsky ) is an introverted child who's just moved to a new town with his parents . His parents are Nick ( Randy Quaid ) and Lily ( Mary Beth Hurt ) , two conformist types who are always eager to push leftover meat on him . Michael comes to wonder where the meat comes from , noting that all they ever seem to eat is leftovers . The revelation won't come as a surprise at all , but the fun of this movie is getting there . Marking the directorial debut of veteran actor Bob Balaban , it shows very striking visual treatment - there's a fine amount of surreal and disturbing sequences - and maintains a constant true sense of creeping unease throughout . It's as dark as a dark comedy can get , and does a marvelous job of putting a morbid spin on 1950's suburban Americana , and parenting in general as well . It's irreverent and grim and overall a real hoot . Balabans ' direction is great , and the acting is fine from the cast . Quaid is effectively restrained and he and Hurt make a good pair as the dubious parents . Madorsky offers a mature and low-key performance for a child actor , while Juno Mills-Cockell is appealing as his quirky , free-spirited new friend . Sandy Dennis also has a nice role as a concerned if a little kooky social worker . It's a refreshing and entertainingly sinister movie with a nice feel for the dark side that childhood can have . The whole idea of children wondering just how much or how little they know about their parents is explored for maximum shock value here , and the results are pretty effective .
An enjoyably outrageous W . I . P . parody .	Unlucky Jennifer ( Linda Carol ) is busted after assisting her boyfriend in an armed robbery , and sent to Pridemore , a juvenile detention facility . The usual sleazy shenanigans ensue , including the struggle against the obese and flamboyant matron ( Pat Ast , a delight in a deliberately over-the-top performance ) and the uptight warden ( an enjoyable but under-utilized Sybil Danning ) . Writer / director Tom DeSimone had already had the films " Prison Girls " and " The Concrete Jungle " under his belt , so his attempt to send up the genre is especially noteworthy . Everything is exaggerated for comedic effect , with Carol necessarily playing her part straight so that there will be at least some sympathy for her character . But the usual clichés get lampooned effectively , and it's a nicely tawdry serving of T & A and sleaze . Some of the biggest criticisms arise out of the casting of tough-as-nails rocker Wendy O . Williams as a teenager , when she was already well into her thirties , but it fits into the whole irreverent approach to the material . It's never less than a fun , entertaining ride that offers a great climax and plenty of rock songs to underscore the action . It's appreciable that a number of the girls are lookers ; it makes them so much fun to watch . I found it rousing and had a high old time hoping that those nasty villains would get what they had coming . It's 94 minutes of straight-up lowbrow B-movie entertainment . I had a blast watching it .
An excellent thriller that deserves to be better known .	Carl ( Bruce Campbell ) is just being released from prison , but he's already got plans for a major heist . Due to the bumbling of his none-too-reliable partner Patrick ( Jeremy Roberts ) , things unravel pretty quickly as one thing after another goes wrong . Drawing inspiration from Alfred Hitchcocks ' classic movie " Rope " , this well-crafted movie appears to unfold in real time and be shot in one continuous take . This creates a constant flow of action , and allows a viewer to feel as if they are right there with the characters . There are no extraneous subplots ; it's a simple story , well told and very well acted by its principal actors . It clocks in at a breezy 69 minutes and also has a nice feel of realism . Sharp black and white cinematography ( by Kurt Rauf ) and agile camera-work ( by Bill Gierhart ) and entertaining music ( by Joseph LoDuca ) are very worthy assets . The cast is convincing and riveting ; B-movie icon Campbell is a great lead , well supported by Roberts as the well-meaning but ineffectual Patrick , Anita Barone as a wonderfully appealing nice-girl prostitute ( and former flame of Campbell ! ) , Stan Davis as safe-cracker Buzz , Gordon Jennison as pathetic and untrustworthy junkie getaway driver Donny , and excellent character veteran Art LaFleur as the prison warden . Trust me , this little movie will get your attention and keep you interested . It's solid entertainment - sometimes funny , sometimes harrowing , and sometimes even touching . I highly recommend it .
A creepy horror film with a decent premise .	Four young Americans are having the time of their life on a Mexican vacation . They make the acquaintance of Matthias ( Joe Anderson ) , who invites them to accompany him to a Mayan temple where Matthias's brother and some others have been exploring . When they reach the place , some awfully intimidating locals threaten them and they escape to the top of the temple . However , something far more unsettling waits for them up there . Scripted by Scott B . Smith from his own novel , " The Ruins " isn't bad at all for a modern fright feature . The premise may not be wholly original , but it's not that common either ( I don't want to spoil it for you in case you haven't seen it ) so it comes as a little breath of fresh air . It generates some really creepy and disgusting moments , and I was pleased with how director Carter Smith really kept it moving along . He also creates a genuine sense of desperation and terror for the characters , and they are spared nothing . The attractive main quartet - Jonathan Tucker , Jena Malone , Shawn Ashmore , Laura Ramsey - create characters that may not get fleshed out a lot , but at least they're fairly intelligent and it's easy enough to sympathize with them , given what they're going through . The lush tropical setting ( " The Ruins " was actually filmed in Australia ) is well photographed . There's some excellent gore in the unrated cut ( and it's not just gore for gores ' sake , either - it's relevant to the plot ) , and CGI special effects are not overdone . It's a pleasure to watch a film these days that can actually make me squirm . This film has that ability and delivers on its premise . I definitely recommend it .
I Was Impressed .	Compelling , heartbreaking true story of a small-town massacre in Florida in the 1920's that starts when a white woman is assaulted by her lover and falsely claims that a black man had done it . Ving Rhames plays a " Mr . Mann , " a loner / war veteran who comes to the aid of the townsfolk . This has got to be one of the most uncomfortable dramas that I've ever seen , chiefly because the vile , repulsive white racists in this film are the embodiment of pure evil . But it's also a solid , well-crafted , and well-acted dramatization of a story that certainly needed to be told . It's a long movie , but entertaining enough to stick with . It never ceases to amaze me just what evil that white racists can be capable of . But it's NOT just about that - I also happen to see as a story of pride and fierce determination . One character I certainly don't understand is the local sheriff ( played by the excellent Michael Rooker ) - is this man a racist or isn't he ? He seems to be written as open-minded in some scenes and foolish in others . And how could he let things get so awful so quickly if ( WARNING : SPOILER ALERT ) he never really believed the young woman's story ? ! ? Jon Voight ( as one of the few decent - or something approaching decent - white characters in the movie ) , Don Cheadle , Bruce McGill ( as the movie's most visible - and unattractive - racist ) , Esther Rolle , Elise Neal , and Rhames are all excellent as well . Worthy of an .
Grim and potent low-budget shocker .	When a plane crash causes an experimental virus , designed for use as a biological weapon , to spread in the small town of Evans City , PA , the military is called in to try to contain the situation . Martial law is implemented , while scientists feverishly try to come up with an antidote . People who contract the virus become aggressive and dangerous . A small group of survivors : Judy ( pretty Lane Carroll ) , David ( W . G . McMillan ) , Clank ( Harold Wayne Jones ) , Artie ( Richard Liberty ) , and Kathy ( Lynn Lowry ) , try to make it to safety on their own terms . George A . Romero's loyal fans may be well aware of this overlooked entry in his oeuvre , but it really could stand to be better known ( however , the now in-progress remake may help in this regard ) . It's quite convincing and well done on its low budget . It's disturbing , depressing , and altogether fascinating . Romero does a superb job of depicting a society in total breakdown . It retains a strong human element and shows how everybody is effected when circumstances degenerate into a panic . He has this film really hit the ground running and it rarely takes a breather . It's tense , quite graphic , and very believable . The acting is generally reasonably good . The sexy cult actress Lowry is quite striking as the spaced-out daughter of Liberty ( whom Romero fans will recognize as Dr . Logan in " Day of the Dead " ) . Richard France is intense as Dr . Watts , the scientist determined to find the antidote . And Lloyd Hollar offers an effectively stoic presence as Col . Peckem , the officer in charge of maintaining order . " The Crazies " is well worth watching . It's got a chilling premise , is executed with conviction , and is just plain grim from beginning to end .
Thoroughly entertaining revenge-driven blaxploitation classic .	Pam Grier had the biggest hit of her career with this tough and gritty blaxploitation film . Playing the title role , she shows incredible poise and conviction , in addition to her undeniable sex appeal . Coffy is a nurse seething after her kid sister has become a drug addict . Knowing full well that the cops are on the take , she determines to take out the villains responsible by herself . Right near the beginning , we know we're in for a good time as Coffy blows a hoodlum's head to a bloody pulp with a shotgun , then forces the man's driver to overdose . Coffy proceeds to infiltrate the criminal organization as a prostitute , making the acquaintance of such gentlemen as King George ( Robert DoQui , a . k . a . Sgt . Reed from the " RoboCop " series ) , a smooth pimp / pusher with his own theme song , Vitroni ( Allan Arbus ) , a gangster from Las Vegas , and Omar ( Pam's frequent co-star and Jack Hill favorite Sid Haig ) , a rather amiable thug . " Coffy " offers such standout sequences as a wild cat fight in which women's breasts are continuously and appreciably being exposed ( and in which food also plays an amusing part ) , and King George's punishment by Vitroni's goons when they believe that he has betrayed them . The film delivers good action scenes in addition to some comedy . It gets very visceral and exciting when Coffy makes a daring escape and the pace really picks up ; in short order she's striking right back at the bad guys , leading up to a brutal act of retribution performed on one man's manhood . The music is funky and fun ( " Coffy Baby " is a groovy theme song ) and the film is quite enjoyable . Furthermore , a great assortment of supporting actors add to the enjoyment : Haig as always is a blast to watch , Arbus is very amusing as the sleazy racist gangster , DoQui is solid as King George , and William Elliott and Booker Bradshaw are both good as the very different men after Coffy's affections . Barry Cahill ( as crooked policeman McHenry ) , Lee de Broux ( as Nick ) , Linda Haynes ( as Meg , the prostitute who resents Coffy's presence ) , and stunt coordinator Bob Minor ( as driver Studs ) , Carol Locatell ( as Priscilla , who provides Coffy with some critical information ) , voice over man Ron Gans ( as an unnamed stranger ) , and Lyman Ward ( as an orderly ) comprise an entertaining bunch of actors . It's going to be particularly interesting for horror fans who know Locatell from her role in " Friday the 13th : A New Beginning " to see her here . Coffy is a very engaging character who simply can't be stopped . She always manages to keep her cool and always has something up her sleeve and is good at thinking her way out of a sticky situation . ( It's priceless to see her hiding razor blades in her Afro , for one thing . ) It's easy to see why this has been hailed as a classic film of its genre . It delivers the goods from beginning to end .
A thoroughly enjoyable B horror movie .	Reliable small town doctor Paul Beecher ( John Beal ) gets a hold of some experimental regression pills extracted from vampire bats ; mistaking them for his migraine pills , he starts taking them and becomes addicted to taking them . Slowly it dawns on him that it's causing him to mutate into a hideous fiend that preys on both male and female victims at night . I'm always going to be partial to any film featuring Kenneth Tobey or Dabbs Greer , and since this likable little programmer has both of them , that's all the more reason to watch it . They're both solid , and Coleen Gray ( " Kiss of Death " ' 47 , " Red River " , " The Killing " ) is a beautiful and appealing female lead , but Beal does the standout job in a committed and sympathetic performance . The film has one good stalking sequence , and a good murder sequence . It's a compulsively watchable little genre item that is always interesting and reasonably chilling and offers a new twist on the vampire story . Beals ' makeup is rather different ; more to the point , he resembles a werewolf more than a vampire , and the film doesn't play out quite like what we're used to with vampire movies , so I found it quite intriguing . It's entertaining from scene to scene and doesn't waste time - once it's over , it's over . I thought it was a fun little movie , and enjoyed it very much .
It's too bad that this would be Brandon Lee's swan song . . .	Eric Draven ( Brandon Lee ) , a rock musician , and his fiancée Shelly are brutally murdered by thugs representing depraved master criminal Top Dollar ( Michael Wincott ) . One year later , Eric is brought back to life - and guided by a crow - so that he can seek vengeance on these scummy lowlifes . Although the idea of revenge has been overdone for years in a variety of films , this film does have its bonuses ; it's done with style , it looks great , it has entertaining heroes and villains , and has a decent rock soundtrack . The death of Brandon Lee during filming gives an added sense of tragedy to the whole film . It's so sad , thinking of what happened to him . . . I can also tell this was based on a comic book series ; it does have that sort of look and feel to it . I think it deserves at least an .
When " Free Willy " attacks . . .	Ignorant fisherman Captain Nolan ( Richard Harris ) tries to harpoon a male killer whale . He misses it ( although he does take a chunk out of its dorsal fin ) and harpoons the animal's pregnant mate . When both the female and its cub die , the male embarks on a mission of vengeance . Of course , the whole idea of an animal seeking vengeance strikes many people as being thoroughly ridiculous - to suggest that , the writers are suggesting that they have the same kinds of emotions as humans . ( " Jaws : The Revenge " has the same exact hook , incidentally . ) This whale is obviously a genius - there's nothing he can't figure out . He makes every single human in the movie look like a complete idiot in comparison . Although the movie is at its core a far-fetched " nature strikes back " sort of melodrama / thriller , I thought it was reasonably affecting . I actually felt sorry for that whale and was rooting for him to kill all those human dolts ( if you want to see the thing bite Bo Derek's leg off , then by all means tune in ) . In fact , the film seems to have the utmost respect for killer whales , and contempt for its human characters . Harris ' character is eventually revealed to be more than one-dimensional , and I started to actually understand ( if not condone ) his actions . Harris is pretty good , although Charlotte Rampling , as the movie's resident whale-lover , is so bland she tends to diminish the effectiveness of her scenes . I don't care how beautiful she is ; she really didn't even try in this movie ! As I've said , the only thing really wrong with it is the writing . Otherwise , I think it's a reasonably well made film .
An effective chase picture in an evocatively exotic locale .	Leading man Cornel Wilde is star and director of this chase picture set in the African jungle . He plays a man on safari - he's billed simply as " Man " - whose financier makes the mistake of alienating the tribe that are guiding them . They strip The Man naked and set him loose in the jungle , giving him a bit of a head start before they start pursuing him . Wilde does a great job here at telling a story in truly visual terms . There's no dialog for much of the picture , nor does there need to be . The dialog of the natives is not even subtitled . Wilde lets all of the actions speak for themselves . Set to the rhythmic pounding of drums , the action drives the picture . It takes breathers now and then , and also takes the time to appreciate nature , while still maintaining a fair sense of urgency . Wilde makes great use of the Panavision aspect ratio , using it to fill the screen with as much imagery as he can . It's certainly a very rich looking film . It works as an illustration of such oft-visited subjects as man's inhumanity to man , the clash of cultures , and what can happen when man is at the mercy of nature . It doesn't shy away from brutal violence , and also lightens the proceedings on occasion with a sense of humor ( The Man doesn't always have an easy time catching his food ) and an especially charming sequence wherein The Man makes the acquaintance of a young girl , appealingly played by Bella Randles . In the end , it's a fine story about the human instinct for survival , and how that can drive people even if they start to physically wear down , as The Man does here . The Man is no cut-and-dried hero , nor are the natives one-dimensional villains . These are characters and not archetypes , making the viewer care about and maintain interest in both sides of the pursuit . Whenever a native warrior perishes , you feel the anguish that the other warriors feel , yet you can also feel a sense of exultation when The Man manages an escape . And , in the end , The Man and the natives develop a respect for each other that is conveyed in the simplest and most effective of gestures . This is a strong film and comes highly recommended . Filmed on location in various African locations , including Botswana , South Africa , and Zimbabwe .
A fun and scary picture .	Another in the assortment of made-for-TV 1970's era horror movies , this entertaining shocker , written by Nigel McKeand , has a young wife ( Kim Darby ) with a successful husband ( Jim Hutton ) terrorized inside their new home . It seems that the fireplace has been sealed up for a reason , and when Sallys ' ( Darby ) stubbornness and curiosity get the better of her ( she just has to open it ) , a diminutive and stealthy evil is determined to lay its hands on her . This is dark and atmospheric , with very moody nighttime photography . The music score by Billy Goldenberg is also quite eerie . The feeling of foreboding is strong ; the mystery of the house and its awful little inhabitants is never given much explanation except for the warnings of the aged carpenter ( screen veteran William Demarest ) . This actually works in the films ' favor , as the viewer is forced to ponder their own ideas as to what is going on . The film loses a little something once the creatures have to be revealed , but they manage to retain an inherent creepiness . This probably would have scared me badly , too , had I seen it at a much younger age , but even now I found it to be an unsettling experience . ( Such little people actors as Felix Silla ( Cousin Itt from ' The Addams Family ' ) and Tamara De Treaux ( who played the title character in " E . T . " ) portray the creatures . ) Directed efficiently by a very experienced TV veteran named John Newland , this begins and ends very well . I liked it very much .
" It doesn't matter where they come from . . . "	Val ( Kevin Bacon ) and Earl ( Fred Ward ) are two likable handymen who work in a very small Nevada community and who are itching to leave for the big city - or , at least , the nearest town . Their departure is halted by the sudden , unexplainable arrival of some voracious underground monsters that have begun devouring the locals . In short order , they're taking charge as they lead their fellow denizens in a battle against the creatures . Both a tribute to and spoof of 1950's monster movies , this movie can be summed up in three words : silly , undemanding fun . ( I would advise viewers not to take it seriously . ) It's ultimately upbeat and lively entertainment and it's hard not to like . The movie has some interesting and offbeat characters ( ' Family Ties ' dad Michael Gross and country-western sweetheart Reba McEntire play a gun-happy survivalist couple ) . By the way , McEntire made her feature film debut here , one of the unlikeliest that I can think of . Good location work , good acting , good banter between Bacon and Ward , decent music , and impressive creature effects highlight this modest movie that to date has spawned three direct-to-video-and-DVD sequels ( the third is coming out next year ) and an unnecessary TV series . Interesting how this movie offers no explanation for the creatures ' existence .
This wrong turn feels " right " .	Six young people are fatally waylaid from their travel plans by demented , degenerate backwoods-dwelling mutant inbred freaks with murderous intent . Simplistic , predictable horror thriller set in the backwoods of West Virginia ( yet filmed in Ontario ) . That said , this movie is actually entertaining - more entertaining than it has any right to be , given that it is so unimaginative and reminiscent of earlier films like " The Hills Have Eyes " and " The Texas Chain Saw Massacre " . Credit must be given to director Rob Schmidt for making it slick , and keeping it moving . Veteran makeup effects maestro Stan Winston , also one of the movie's producers , also supervised the creation of the extremely gruesome effects for this movie . I also give credit to the actors ( Julian Richings , Gary Robbins , Ted Clark ) playing the psycho villains because they are utterly convincing playing killers that are little more than upright-walking animals . It's still plenty predictable - you can tell who will live and who will die - andSPOILERan inevitable setting-up-a-sequel scene is inserted into the closing credits . I'll be darned if it didn't entertain me , though .
An enjoyable work of subtly sinister Gothic horror .	At the turn of the century , Dr . Paul Eswai ( Giacomo Rossi-Stuart ) is called upon to conduct an autopsy on a girl who has died under suspicious circumstances . He arrives to find a bunch of cagey and frightened villagers who fear the curse that they have to live with . As part of my intent to broaden my horizons and explore more foreign horror , I watched this nice little horror film from Mario Bava , perhaps the greatest master of Italian horror of all time , based on recommendations here , and the film does not disappoint . A very rich film to look at , it evokes its era very well , with wonderful sets and photography . Bava infuses it with a healthy amount of atmosphere ; many outdoor scenes include a healthy amount of fog , and the indoor sets have portions completely covered in cobwebs . The sense of impending doom is strong ; the thought of what secrets might be revealed helps to keep the film engrossing . It's made all the more effective by a moody and ominous music score . Finally , the film does wonders to make the sound of a little girls ' giggle disturbing rather than appealing . Rossi-Stuart isn't bad in the lead , but it's the lovely ladies in the supporting roles that really command attention , particularly the incredibly alluring brunette Fabienne Dali as Ruth , the sorceress . I also liked Piero Lulli as the Inspector , and Luciano Catenacci ( a . k . a . Max Lawrence ) as the burgomeister . Any fan of period horror pieces would be advised to check out this entertaining entry ; it can easily rival anything made by Britain's Hammer studios . Short and economical ( even working with a low budget Bava really gets the job done ) , it gets right down to business and moves at a respectable pace . I definitely enjoyed it . Bavas ' son Lamberto ( later director of the 1980's gore favorite " Demons " ) was assistant director here .
Chuck Norris kicks the Commies into oblivion .	Hard-R , over-the-top , hilariously absurd action movie with a political paranoia bent . This film gives us a this-could-happen doomsday scenario from the era of the Cold War . Maniacal Communist terrorists , led by poker-paced psychopath Rostov ( Richard Lynch ) land on American soil , just annihilating everybody in their path . But there is one man , and one man alone , who can save the day . . . " retired " secret agent Matt Hunter ( Chuck Norris ) . Chuck gives one of his more stone-faced portrayals , but the character himself is one of his more sullen and ruthless . I'll say that much - these two adversaries deserve each other , although the final confrontation is a long time coming . I have to give credit where credit is due : the film-makers , led by director Joseph Zito , let us know up front we're in for a heck of a ride . They gleefully toss credibility out the window , and , just for good measure , dispense with any level of political correctness . The movie is rough , tough , and rousing ( although it takes about half the film for things to really kick into gear ) , aided in no small part by a stirring music score by the talented Jay Chattaway . Sequences ranging from funny to just plain insane involve a ) the messy dispatch of a sleazy drug dealer ( Billy Drago ) and a hooker , b ) a loud and noisy assault on a suburban neighborhood , and c ) a major shootout in a shopping mall . This film truly throws in everything ( including the kitchen sink ) for the sake of an entertaining show . Co-starring Melissa Prophet ( whose gutsy , obnoxious , pushy reporter is more of an annoyance than anything else ) , Alexander Zale , Alex Colon , Eddie Jones , and Dehl Berti . Co-written by Chuck himself and James Bruner , based on a story by Bruner and Chuck's brother ( and frequent collaborator ) Aaron . My final parting words are just this : of the assembly line of Cannon Films action pictures and thrillers to come out of the 1980's , this has to rank up there as one of the most potent guilty pleasures that they made . Period .
Good 1980's film .	Scientists working in the Arctic discover a body encased in ice . They bring it back to their base , where after cutting it open they discover a perfectly preserved Neanderthal man ( John Lone ) . Most of the scientists merely want the man for study , while the lone dissenting voice , Dr . Stanley Shepherd ( Timothy Hutton ) , a young and inexperienced anthropologist , attempts to form a real connection with " Charlie " , as he comes to be known . Intelligent and humanistic science-fiction / drama with decent performances by Hutton and the supporting cast , and a truly exceptional one by Lone , who actually BECOMES this primitive man . Bruce Smeaton's music score is effective , the stark , snowbound locations are reasonably well photographed , and Michael Westmore's makeup job on Lone is impressive . " IceMan " may be too slow and quiet for some people's tastes but it does offer certain rewards for those who like uplifting stories with good messages . Filmed in Churchill , Manitoba and Stewart , British Columbia ( incidentally , John Carpenter's " The Thing " was partly filmed in Stewart , too , and this film uses a few of the same crew members ) . Basically , a good effort from all involved .
Everybody gets an A for effort on this one .	Cathy Whitaker ( Julianne Moore ) is a busy and successful wife / mother in 1950's suburbia whose life is torn apart due to two things : the revelation of her husband Frank's ( Dennis Quaid ) deep , dark secret , and the hurtful gossip that ensues when she strikes up a profound friendship with her black gardener Raymond ( Dennis Haysbert ) . Interesting experiment by writer / director Todd Haynes in which he pays faithful tribute to 1950's feature film soap operas , using 1950's style costumes , sets , photography , and music . Although it's not quite good enough to really take me to another time and place , the story and characters are genuinely affecting ; chalk up another great performance for Julianne Moore , who is well supported by Quaid and Haysbert , a . k . a . the President on ' 24 ' . Patricia Clarkson , as Moore's best friend , is good as always , and so is Viola Davis as the Whitakers ' maid . I liked " Far From Heaven " . Compared to more mainstream Hollywood fare , this is a breath of fresh air . Maybe it's not perfect , but it makes for decent drama . One of the better pictures of
" Dead or alive , you're coming with me . "	In the ultra-violent Detroit of the near future , nice-guy cop Alex Murphy ( Peter Weller ) is savagely executed by mean , brutal thugs . His body is used then to create a cyborg ( part man , part machine ) that is intended to be the ultimate law enforcement officer . The only problem is , he still retains his human memories and becomes consumed with striking back at the men who killed him . I call this the ultimate in visceral entertainment . Although it's not necessarily a stupid movie , you don't have to think about it , you can just enjoy it . It feels rather cathartic for me to watch such a repellent variety of worthless scum get their just desserts . It's hard-hitting , intense , and incredibly violent . It's also slick , well cast , and well acted . I like it right down to the music score by Basil Poledouris ( I can still hear that theme in my head ) . And veteran effects master Rob Bottin did a great job of supervising the creation and design of RoboCop . The appearance is impressive ( and I'm sure it must have a real pain for star Weller , getting in and out of that costume ) . But don't forget the stop-motion animation contribution by Phil Tippett . ' ED-209 ' is a good creation , too . A must for fans of macho science-fiction / action thrillers .
Does he bite ? You bet he does .	Ally Sheedy portrays Lori Tanner , a TV news reporter itching to break out of fluff stories and do something worthwhile . She gets her big break in discovering the atrocities visited on animals in bad guy scientist Dr . Jarrets ' ( Lance Henriksen ) vivisection lab . Unfortunately , she's also the unwitting instigator of the movie's main story by letting loose Dr . Jarrets ' pet project , Max , a mutt genetically engineered to have the abilities of several different types of animals . Max is also inherently dangerous , wouldn't you know ; once his sedatives wear off , his violent side will take over . This may not be all that good a movie , but as a dog lover and a genre fan who's not overtly demanding , I thought it made for some pretty good entertainment . It zips along , and maintains a level of interest and involvement . Max is an endearing canine co-star , well trained by a handful of animal experts , including canine specialist Clint Rowe . Makeup effects are suitably gory , the music is affecting , and the film delivers some good action and suspense scenes . Sheedy is an appropriately likable protagonist , and Henriksen reliable as always as the unsubtle , one-dimensional villain . Robert Costanzo , John Cassini , Fredric Lehne , and excellent character veteran William Sanderson all do a good job in support . It's a fairly amusing movie that puts morbid spins on the usual clichés associated with dogs , like the dog not caring for the significant other of its owner , or tussles with cats , mailmen , dogcatchers , and the like . It's good for some shocks and some chuckles , and , even if you don't find yourself caring for it too much , it's over fairly quickly . I thought it was fun escapism , although the movies ' plea for animal rights certainly doesn't escape ones ' attention . However , it doesn't detract from a basically decent thriller .
A nicely sleazy and sordid vigilante picture .	A memorably tough , nasty , and supremely gritty NYC vigilante action favorite obviously patterned after " Death Wish " , this flick stars Robert Ginty as John Eastland , Vietnam veteran working with his fellow former soldier Michael Jefferson ( Steve James ) in a market . Michael doesn't last long before he is targeted by gang members who attack him and paralyze him for life . This motivates John to do something about the level of crime in The City . He's not content , however , to stop with the gang members . He wages a full-scale war against the criminal element , while Detective James Dalton ( Christopher George ) is on his trail . This film really wastes no time . It starts with some very well-staged and hellish Vietnam scenes , the highlight of which is a brutal decapitation ( Tom Burman and Stan Winston supply the makeup effects ) . Writer / director James Glickenhaus compensates for a lack of originality by infusing his film with a relentless seediness and memorable set pieces . One of the absolute best moments has a mafioso getting fed into a meat grinder . A creepy sequence has John going after a " chicken pimp " whose primary business is supplying depraved johns with underage boys . But in the tradition of vigilante leads such as Charles Bronson's Paul Kersey in " Death Wish " , John will always turn up to punish criminal scum in the most visceral manner possible . Excellent location shooting ( as well as some great overhead shots of The City ) is a big plus , as well as some effectively melancholy songs on the soundtrack . Ginty is fine in the lead , with the ever engaging George a good choice for the role of the detective ; Samantha Eggar has a relatively minor role as an emerging love interest for George . The always charismatic James is fun to watch in his brief screen time , with some familiar faces such as Tony DiBenedetto , Dennis Boutsikaris , George Cheung , Irwin Keyes , and Tom Everett in bit parts . " The Exterminator " comes as a strong recommendation for fans of exploitation and action .
Good movie !	Malcolm Anderson ( Kurt Russell ) is a star reporter for a Miami newspaper who becomes the sole contact for a murderer ( Richard Jordan ) who is craving headlines . However , the murderer gets angry because , as his killings continue , Malcolm becomes the focal point of the stories ; Malcolm's girlfriend ( Mariel Hemingway ) , in fact , suggests that the two are practically collaborating . This is a satisfying , entertaining thriller that seems to have something to say about the way that the media sometimes conduct themselves . It doesn't call attention to itself with any flashy gimmicks ; it just tells an interesting story in a simple , straightforward manner . Russell delivers a solid performance and is assisted well by a good supporting cast . All in all , I have to say that I liked this movie . Based on the novel " In the Heat of the Summer " by John Katzenbach ( who also wrote " Just Cause " ) .
Another good effort from the folks at Amicus .	The customers of mysterious Peter Cushing's antiques shop Temptations Ltd . succumb to a variety of horrific fates after making their assorted purchases , in a series of adaptations of stories by R . Chetwynd-Hayes . While never really scary , it's still quite enjoyably ghoulish and its various nasty twists serve as fine punctuation on the tales . The pace drags a bit at times but director Kevin Connor stages its set pieces with efficiency , and it has great art direction & set decoration and cinematography . There's a decent amount of grisly violence , spooky music by David Gamley , and best of all , a marvelous British cast that plays the material for all it's worth . In " The Gate Crasher " , David Warner plays Edward , who obtains a mirror . After he and his friends hold a séance , a spirit ( Marcel Steiner ) appears in the mirror and orders Edward to find him victims . Warner is excellent and Steiner is appropriately creepy . " An Act of Kindness " has unhappily married Christopher Lowe ( Ian Bannen ) making the acquaintance of street peddler Jim Underwood ( Donald Pleasence ) and Jim's daughter Emily ( played by Pleasence's own daughter Angela ) . This is for the most part very subtle and character-driven material ; the actors are all superb . It's all worth it for the twist in the end ; I certainly didn't see it coming . " The Elemental " has the most outright comedy of the stories . Off-the-wall clairvoyant Madame Orloff ( Margaret Leighton ) tells fellow train passenger Reggie Warren ( Ian Carmichael ) that he has the title being perched on his shoulder . When Reggie's wife Susan ( Nyree Dawn Porter ) is struck and strangled and Reggie knows darn well he's not responsible , he believes Orloff and agrees to have her come to his place and work her magic . Decent special effects and a large amount of good laughs ( Leighton is hysterical ) help to make this goofy segment a real hoot . In " The Door " , William ( Ian Ogilvy ) and Rosemary Seaton ( Lesley Anne Down ) purchase a heavy ornate door to use on their closet . However , sometimes when they open it , the long - ago room to which the door allowed entry appears . A maniacal character named Sinclair ( Jack Watson ) resides here and fully intends to make William and Rosemary his next victims . Good performances and a fine Gothic atmosphere make this a solid final segment . As the film finishes , a hold-up man attempts to rob Cushing , and receives his own comeuppance . " From Beyond the Grave " is highly recommended to horror anthology fans . I know I had a good time watching it .
This Is Good Stuff .	Mick O'Brien ( Sean Penn ) is a Chicago lowlife who spends his nights mugging people . His world is torn apart when he accidentally kills the younger brother of a small-time drug dealer ( Esai Morales ) . He then has to adjust to life in a juvenile prison ; things get really sticky when Paco ( Morales ) rapes Mick's girlfriend ( Ally Sheedy ) and is sent to the EXACT SAME PRISON . And , as you can expect , they both want their revenge . . . Tough as nails , hard-hitting , impressive tale of youth gone wild . This film is really entertaining and features an impressive group of actors . ( Look for Alan Ruck of " Ferris Bueller's Day Off " and " Spin City " in an early role as an associate of Mick's who participates in an ill-fated robbery attempt . ) Overall , I liked it very much . It was certainly good enough to leave a lasting impression on me . My rating is .
Memorable 1980's product still packs a mean punch .	Traveling inventor and salesman Rand Peltzer ( singer Hoyt Axton ) buys an unusual Christmas present for his bank employee son Billy ( Zach Galligan ) : a strange , never-before-seen animal called a " Mogwai " , whom Rand christens " Gizmo " . There are three extremely important rules to follow in order to take proper care of " Gizmo " : don't expose him to light , don't expose him to water , and above all else , never feed him after midnight . As you might expect , rule two is broken soon enough , and " Gizmo " spawns a quintet of new Mogwai . Then rule three is broken ( unknowingly ) and the new Mogwai metamorphose into little green devils called " Gremlins " that proceed to tear the little town of Kingston Falls apart . After all this time - it's been a while since I saw it - I still get a kick out of it . Equal parts scary and funny , with memorable music score ( and catchy central theme ) by Jerry Goldsmith , and the little monsters are inventively realized by Chris Walas and his effects team . ( The monsters range from being frightening to being absolutely hilarious . ) The main problem for some viewers will undeniably be an approach that can be seen as mean-spirited and ugly . I can understand why some people wouldn't be able to stomach this film , particularly when Kate ( Phoebe Cates ) tells the story of why she doesn't celebrate Christmas . Overall , this nasty horror / comedy emerges as one of my favorite 1980's pictures . This was the first film I saw legendary cult actor Dick Miller ( a favorite of director Joe Dante ) in , and he's remained an entertaining actor to watch . Actors William Schallert and Kenneth Tobey appear uncredited . Howie Mandel is the voice of " Gizmo " , and the ubiquitous Frank Welker is the voice of lead gremlin " Stripe " . Michael Winslow , the vocal sound effects guy from the " Police Academy " movies , was also one of the vocal effects artists here . Some of you might want to keep in mind that the original draft of the screenplay was even darker , with horrible fates intended for Mrs . Peltzer and Barney the dog . Before I go , I want to say that writer turned director Chris Columbus's script does beg questions such as : If the wrong time to feed " Gizmo " is after midnight , when does the right time begin ?
I Gave It Eight Out Of Ten .	Drama about middle-aged George Monroe ( Kevin Kline ) , who learns , right after he's been fired , that he has terminal , inoperable cancer . He decides to make the most of his remaining time on earth - and that includes building his dream house and bonding with his hostile , alienated son Sam ( Hayden Christensen ) . This is a shameless tearjerker although I have to admit it did push some of my buttons well . Works mainly as a showcase for a superb cast ( even Christensen , who I know I dissed for his stiff performance in Attack of the Clones - here he shows he CAN actually act ) . In some ways , I guess it's kind of silly - was the subplot involving neighbor Colleen Beck ( Mary Steenburgen ) and teenager Josh ( Ian Somerhalder ) really necessary ? - but in general it's a good film . Kevin Kline acts as sort of an " anchor " for this film with a solid , low-key performance that helps to keep it rooted in some sort of reality . As a matter of fact , it's too bad they limit the Oscar nominees for best actor ( et al ) to five each year because I think he could have picked one up here . I give it a generous . ( go to the cast . )
Pretty effective little horror movie .	Two screen veterans , Richard Basehart and Gloria Grahame , star in this enjoyable B horror flick about obsessed eye surgeon Dr . Chaney ( Basehart ) , absolutely determined to make daughter Nancy ( Trish Stewart ) see again ; she lost her eyesight in a car accident . Chaney's figured out a way to transplant eyes , but problem number one is that he prefers to take them from folks who are still alive , and problem number two is that his daughters ' body keeps rejecting the donor eyes . So the mad doctor is obliged to continuously abduct people and make them unwilling donors , keeping them locked up and eyeless in a cage in his basement . Capably directed by Michael Pataki , usually an actor in this sort of fare , this was a very early effort for producer and director Charles Band . It gets off to a pretty slow start , but gets better and better as it goes along . A grim , unsettling , and nasty mood is maintained throughout ( enhanced by the music of Robert O . Ragland ) , and all of the scenes in the cage are what really provide this movie with its juice . The actors playing the victims do creditable work ; it's uncomfortable to hear them moaning in such pain and fear ( one of them is played by a pre-stardom Lance Henriksen , solid as always ) . The film is all the more effective for this ability to elicit sympathy from a viewer . The escape attempt sequences are especially effective , with one sequence in which Chaney goes after a young girl giving off extremely creepy vibes . Stan Winston supplied the makeup effects , and they really are quite convincing . Future director Andrew Davis supplies the very moody cinematography . Both Basehart and Grahame deliver fine performances ; these are not one-dimensional villains , and they don't play them as such . You can see that she doesn't like being party to such nefarious deeds , and he truly wants to help people , not just his daughter ; he does plan on restoring the eyesight to all of his victims . He's misguided , not evil , and my ability to take some pity on him as well as his victims added to the impact of the movie . Great ending , too . A solid and unnerving movie , " Mansion of the Doomed " makes for interesting and compelling viewing , particularly for seeing a number of notable names in the early years of their careers .
I think I'll promise to brush three times a day after watching this .	Not that many films have truly exploited the fear of going to the dentist that many people have . Those in the profession have some genuinely intimidating looking instruments . Give writers Dennis Paoli , Stuart Gordon , and Charles Finch for deriving maximum make-you - squirm-in-your-seat shock value from their premise . Corbin Bernsen , in a nicely nuanced performance , is Alan Feinstone , dedicated dentist whose train jumps off the tracks early on . An unbalanced obsessive-compulsive , he starts dwelling on thoughts of decay , even imagining it where there isn't any , and also equating decay with corruption of society in general . Having witnessed his unfaithful wife Brooke ( Linda Hoffman ) getting it on with their pool boy , he determines to punish her . At the same time , he's under pressure from a smarmy I . R . S . agent ( Earl Boen , best known as Dr . Silberman from the " Terminator " franchise ) to do a favor in exchange for the agent keeping his mouth shut about Feinstone's financial affairs . Feinstone starts to perceive everybody around him as decayed in one way or another , and he goes on a murder spree as police detective Gibbs ( the always welcome Ken Foree ) picks up his trail . Director Brian Yuzna clearly has great fun with the script . It allows for some genuinely nasty and remarkably entertaining gore scenes that do just as well as creating sympathy for the victims as thrilling the audience . The script gives the Feinstone character some fine lines of dialog and is overall quite sly and amusing , with large doses of pitch-black humor ( such as Feinstone ordering a victim to " get their tongue out of the way ! " ) . Brooke and the I . R . S . agent figure in particularly effective torture scenes . The makeup effects are for the most part quite good . And the film does a fine job of maintaining its forward momentum , as Feinstone , with his relentless drive for perfection , switches from respected professional to unhinged killer in record time . Foree , always cool and fun to watch , is rather wasted in a standard-issue detective role , but there's some enjoyment in watching Boen play his slimeball part to the hilt . Hoffman and Christa Sauls provide very appealing eye candy . And a pre-fame Mark Ruffalo can be seen in a small supporting role . But this is all very much Bernsen's show as he sinks his teeth ( pardon me for using that expression ) into his plum leading part with total conviction . " The Dentist " ranks as one of the more original and interesting horror films to come out of the 1990's .
A great showcase for Boris Karloff .	Based on a Robert Louis Stevenson short story , and set in 19th century Edinburgh , " The Body Snatcher " is one of several memorable atmospheric chillers made by esteemed writer / producer Val Lewton . Directed with efficiency by Robert Wise , it's a stark , moody and sinister tale . Medical professor Wolfe " Toddy " McFarlane ( Henry Daniell ) , a man of some arrogance and stubbornness , needs cadavers for medical studies . This forces him to deal with a lowlife cabman , Mr . Gray ( Boris Karloff , in a deliciously evil performance ) , who robs graves ( hence the title ) to supply McFarlane with the bodies that he needs . Noteworthy as the final pairing of Karloff with fellow horror icon Bela Lugosi ( who plays the character of Joseph ) , although , alas , Lugosi does not end up with a lot of screen time . At least there are fine supporting performances by Daniell , Edith Atwater , and Russell Wade to make up for that . It's a very classy affair with real old school type chills . Lewton was always a master of suggestion and suspense ( nothing like the incredibly explicit horrors of today ) , and he and Wise work well together ; the script by Phillip MacDonald and Lewton himself ( using his pseudonym Carlos Keith ) is full of great lines and tells a compelling story . It's well paced , good looking , and has a very striking climax . Overall , it's a fine example of 1940's era horror .
The idea of David Carradine in drag is just one element of this unique bit of cinema .	What we have here is a twisted allegory of child abuse and its lingering after effects in which Paul L . Smith plays the big shot / crime boss of a small rural town . David Carradine plays Pearl , his transvestite partner . The movie kicks off when Weasel ( an aptly named role for the oft-intense Brad Dourif ) , Smiths ' henchman , murders a young couple and steals their car for delivery to Slue ( Smith ) . However , there happens to be a baby in the back seat . Slue is furious and wants nothing to do with a child at first , until he realizes that he can torture this child to his hearts ' content and turn him into his attack dog . The interesting cast is just one draw of this terminally offbeat cult item . It also features Michael Griffin , as the young adult incarnation of Sonny Boy , who does a remarkable job in a difficult role . Alexandra Powers plays a potential romantic interest , Conrad Janis an alcoholic local doctor who supposedly conducts transplants using monkey parts , and Sydney Lassick ( it's cool that this movie re-unites two cast members of " One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest " , him and Dourif ) as a criminal accomplice . The rural locations ( this was filmed on location in New Mexico ) are well photographed and art direction / set decoration are also done well . It's set to some rather nice , flavorful music by Carlo Maria Cordio and moves along fairly well . Graeme Whiflers ' script is full of both humor and pathos . While this movie may inevitably be off-putting to some folk , it makes a strong condemnation of the horrors of child abuse in the context of a wild dark comedy / drama . I haven't seen anything quite like " Sonny Boy " , and that's definitely a good thing . What would one compare it to ? Carradine really goes the extra mile here ; not only does he act , but he came up with the theme song as well !
" I think I'll go to Vancouver now . "	The small oceanside community of Antonio Bay is celebrating its 100th birthday . However , the foundation of the community in 1880 was based on murder and deception , and now the ghosts of some long-dead mariners are back to exact bloody vengeance . I would advise any lover of good ghost stories to check out this early John Carpenter gem . It's absolutely atmospheric and chilling with a minimum of gore and effects and a thick , glowing fog that is as much a star of the movie as the human actors . I loved the settings in this film - Antonio Bay is well played by Inverness , California , and the actual working lighthouse is impressive to behold . All sights are excellently photographed by the always reliable Dean Cundey . I've always liked the fact that Carpenter's movies are shot in Panavision because you get that nice wide shot . The other ingredients are here , too - I've never heard a Carpenter music score I didn't like - including a superb ensemble cast ( real-life mother and daughter Janet Leigh and Jamie Lee Curtis co-star , although they don't actually play mother and daughter , and share very few scenes ) ; in particular , Oscar-winner John Houseman makes the opening sequence mesmerizing . Adrienne Barbeau , who was once actually married to Carpenter , makes her film debut here and looks great in addition to giving a solid performance . There's also Tom Atkins , Hal Holbrook , Nancy Loomis of " Halloween " , and Darwin Joston of " Assault on Precinct 13 " . " The Fog " is subtle , intriguing , and spooky - just a great little ghost story , which co-writers Carpenter and Debra Hill based in part on some actual history . Rob Bottin , the man behind much of the creature effects for " The Thing " , had his first association with Carpenter here - providing the film with one brief makeup effect as well as playing the red-eyed phantom Blake . This is one of Carpenter's very best , right up there with the likes of " AoP13 " , " Halloween " , and " The Thing " . Due to the impending production of a remake , I felt it was time to re-visit this old classic . As is the case with most remakes , this one is completely unnecessary , but who knows ? It MIGHT turn out to be good . But I'm not holding my breath .
Great actors ' showcase .	Touching wartime drama set in the small Texas town of Gregory , in which the always superb Sissy Spacek plays Nita Longley , divorced with two kids , and stuck in a dead-end job as a telephone operator . The arrival of kind-hearted sailor Teddy ( Eric Roberts ) puts a little long-lost romance into her life , while two creepy locals named Calvin ( William Sanderson ) and Arnold ( Tracey Walter ) unfortunately also have their eyes on her . As the directorial debut of Spaceks ' husband , veteran art director Jack Fisk , it's a loving evocation of the time and place , set to Jerry Goldsmiths ' beautiful music . It works as a portrait of loneliness , devotion , determination , and hope , all perfectly conveyed by Spacek , in a role that's clearly a natural fit for her . Roberts does extremely well in a part that can remind a viewer of just how good an actor he can be . Sanderson and Walter are completely convincing as the ill-intentioned antagonists , old pro R . G . Armstrong is fine as Nitas ' irascible boss , and a pre - " E . T . " Henry Thomas can be seen in his film debut as one of the two sons . That likable scene with Spacek dancing along to the Andrews sisters ' " Rum and Coca-Cola " is indeed a highlight . I don't have too much of a problem with the climax , even if it does contrast too much with the sweet and wistful nature of the majority of the film . The twist revealed here doesn't come as any surprise , although I found it interesting just the same . A compelling slice of life , and a good character study , " Raggedy Man " is a nice little film that could stand to be better known .
Crazy stuff , man !	This deliriously raunchy and bizarre animated short is the story of the cheerful title yellow bird , who feasts on some mushrooms , starts tripping out , and after becoming attracted to a horse , engages in very explicit interspecies intercourse . This is the kind of thing that folks just have to see for themselves . With its crude animation and its laid-back soundtrack , it may keep a viewer watching in spite of themselves . There's no shame here , and no restraint . It's truly tacky and outrageous and a marvelously crazed oddity . The Satanic-looking cow makes for a great freaky hallucination . Lines include such side-splitters as " Tastes like chicken ! " and the whole thing rates as one positively irresistible ( provided you don't offend easily ) experience . It even gets a little touching at the end as true love ends up overcoming all obstacles . If you think you've seen everything , you might want to give this one a try . It's as raunchy as anything that I've ever seen in live action feature length film-making .
When will people learn to stay out of basements ?	A typically garish , and fantastically gruesome , Lucio Fulci shocker in which Professor Norman Boyle ( Paolo Malco ) picks up the trail of a colleague who'd come to a bad end . The colleague had been investigating the legend of a turn-of-the-century surgeon named Freudstein , a man of very ill intent . Now the Boyle family - wife / mom Lucy ( Katherine MacColl ) and son Bob ( Giovanni Frezza ) find themselves victimized by the evil forces residing in the house , while Norman goes about researching the legend and Bob is befriended by a girl named Mae ( Silvia Collatina ) . While the characters come off as dumb , and the plot leaves questions unanswered , that ends up mostly beside the point . Maintaining the approach he'd utilized for " Zombi 2 " , " City of the Living Dead " , and " The Beyond " , Fulci concentrates instead on setting up a brooding , heavy atmosphere , set in an appropriately decrepit location . Camera angles , visuals , and use of sound are all very commendable ; Fulci uses these to keep us off balance and anxiously awaiting whatever carnage he will finally provide us with . And what beautiful carnage it is . Giannetto De Rossi once again supplies such convincing , unrelenting , and prolonged gruesomeness that a maximum amount of shock value is generated . The makeup job on the sadistic monster is quite interesting as well ; the reveal of this thing is pulled off excellently . Walter Rizzatis ' music is impressively haunting and creepy , and Sergio Salvatis ' widescreen cinematography likewise impresses . Blonde beauty MacColl and striking , sexy brunette Ania Pieroni are quite easy to watch , as is Dagmar Lassander as the realtor . Frezza is a cute little moppet of a kid , although I can see why many viewers have an issue with his dubbed-in voice . It just doesn't sound like a kids ' voice at all , and is indeed annoying . Director Fulci appears on screen as Prof . Muller . " The House by the Cemetery " is grim and grisly and just plain ominous from beginning to end . It definitely qualifies as real horror .
A personal favorite . . .	The crew of a deep-space towing spaceship , carrying tens of millions of ore , is rousted from their sleep when the ship intercepts a message coming from a nearby planet . When they land on the planet to investigate , they end up bringing a little beast on board which has attached itself to a crew member's face . Well , the beast comes off eventually , dies , the crew member seems fine . . . but the worst terror is yet to come , revealing itself during a fateful dinner ! Landmark combination of science-fiction and horror , an intense and gripping creature feature with a trend-setting plot and equally trend-setting design . In fact , " Alien " helped to spawn a number of " Hostile Space Creature ( s ) Devour ( s ) Hapless Crew " pictures made in the 1980's , and to date has also spawned three sequels , the first of which ( James Cameron's " Aliens " ) is even better than this film . This is a rather leisurely paced film , definitely slow going at first . The good stuff doesn't really start until the second half , with the infamous money shot of this picture occurring around the midway point . Good cast ( playing a bare minimum of characters ) features solid American and English actors as another bonus , as well as the creature design by H . R . Giger ( with a contribution by Carlo Rambaldi ) . Trivia note : co-star Veronica Cartwright , who plays the horrifically ill-fated Lambert , was the original choice to play the heroine Ripley , but the producers liked Sigourney Weaver better and cast her in the role instead . As much as I like Cartwright - she's an under-rated actress - this turned out to be the right choice , and Weaver has made Ripley a memorable movie character indeed . Like I say , it's a fine piece of movie-making , but James Cameron went Ridley Scott at least one better with " Aliens " , one of the best sequels of all time .
A choice sleazy and salacious exploitation thriller .	The late , great character actor Nicholas Worth has one of the best parts of his career in this prime example of trash from Crown International . In fact , he basically makes the movie , as a depraved Vietnam veteran now plying his trade as a photographer , but ultimately dedicating his life to committing various sex murders . He's got his eye on radio psychiatrist Dr . Lindsay Gale ( Flo Gerrish ) as the big prize , and is tracked down by police detectives James Westmoreland ( as Lt . McCabe ) and Ben Frank ( as Sgt . Hatcher ) . Worth ends up walking away with every scene that he's got . He expanded on the character and even came up with the " Ramon " routine ( Smith calls Dr . Gale in the guise of a Mexican character , complete with ridiculous accent ) himself . Westmoreland is a perfectly macho and self-assured lead , with Frank lending his role a nice affability . Writer / producer / director Robert Hammer certainly knows how to please his audience , always making sure that the assorted attractive victims - played by such fine-looking ladies as Pamela Jean Bryant , Dale Kalberg , and Susanne Severeid - are undressed at some point . He delivers the sleaze in a big way , and keeps the movie moving along quite nicely , also making great use of his locations . He also injects the movie with some much-appreciated humor ; the highlight in this regard is the farcical commotion in the massage parlor . It's naturally got a cheese factor going for it : the electronic music by Byron Allred is downright awful at times , and Westmorelands ' wardrobe here is likewise good for real laughs . Two actors you'll want to watch out for are Chuck Mitchell - " Porky " himself - as a pornographer , and veteran comedy actor / writer Don Lake as a fetishist . It might not be as noteworthy were it not for Worths ' performance , but it's still very acceptable entertainment of its type and leads to a satisfyingly graphic ending , culminating in the best line in the movie : " Adios , creep ! "
A grim and unnerving psycho thriller .	Donald " Donny " Kohler ( Dan Grimaldi ) is a blue-collar young man still suffering trauma from the way his mother ( Ruth Dardick ) treated him as a child . She was determined to burn the sin out of him , and would hold his bare arms over an open flame on a stove . When mom passes away one night , this sets off something inside Donny . He turns from tortured to torturer , abducting attractive young women and bringing them back to his house where he's built himself his own incinerator room . There he burns them alive , and props them up in another room dressed in his mother's clothes . " Don't Go in the House " stands out from the pack of early 80's horror fare for being so profoundly creepy . Much like another 1980 feature , " Maniac " , it gets maximum impact from its unrelentingly grim depiction of the horrors of the cycle of child abuse . It doesn't shy away from its more exploitative elements : an undeniable highlight ( or low point , depending on your point of view ) is seeing first victim Kathy Jordan ( the very striking Johanna Brushay ) stripped naked , doused with gasoline , and set ablaze in a very harrowing sequence . Donny may be desperately maladjusted , but is not impossible to sympathize with . Grimaldi does a respectable job in the role . He even tries to get help at one point , seeking it from local priest Father Gerrity ( Ralph D . Bowman ) and accepting the offers of friendship from co - worker Bobby Tuttle ( the likable Robert Osth ) . But after an unforeseen incident at a disco , Donny finally gets definitively pushed over the edge . On-location shooting in New Jersey adds some atmosphere to the film , and the mansion used as the Kohler residence is very intriguing in its design and condition ( some parts of it are beautiful , others extremely run down ) ; it is indeed reminiscent of the infamous Bates residence in " Psycho " . Doing fine work are composer Richard Einhorn , supplying a score as creepy as the film itself , and editor Jane Kurson and cinematographer Oliver Wood , both of whom would go on to bigger things . The makeup effects are awfully crude but passable . And that disco song that frequently recurs is quite catchy . The screenplay is by director Joseph Ellison , producer Ellen Hammill ( who plays Bobby's wife and also does the voices that Donny frequently hears ) , and Joe Masefield , based on Masefield's story . While I can understand some people perceiving " Don't Go in the House " as irredeemable , misogynistic trash , I still think that it really hits a nerve and is overall a disturbing piece of work that is not easily forgotten .
An excellent subterranean horror flick .	Six attractive lady friends go exploring a cave in the Appalachian mountains , only to realize that they are trapped down there , with no idea of the way out and being stalked by a subhuman race of creatures . There's much to make note of , starting with the fact that not many horror films give you an entirely female main cast . The characters are believable and three-dimensional and the actresses give good performances . It's easy enough to root for them to survive . The film itself isn't entirely free of problems , if only because I felt that it moved a little slowly at times and the action scenes were a little incoherent . It's filmed with a bare minimum of ( innovative ) lighting , making it look like it really is taking place in a cave . The feeling of claustrophobia is strong ; the dark and dripping caverns and passageways add to the oppressive feeling of the film . David Julyans ' lush orchestral score is another heavy asset . The creatures are well designed and realized and aren't like other monsters that I've seen in other films featuring caves . Best of all , it's nice to watch a modern horror film with the capacity to evoke true terror as it feels like I am really in the middle of this nightmare along with the six women . I highly recommend this film .
A truly potent and sadistic slasher .	This atmospheric , dark , and incredibly horrific slasher begins in a way unlike others of its kind . It shows vintage newsreel footage of WWII soldiers returning home , and then we cut to the reading of a letter wherein the girlfriend of one of these soldiers has written him saying that she could no longer wait for him . He of course doesn't take kindly to this . She and her date get a pitchfork rammed through them during the night of a graduation dance . Years go by without a graduation dance , until 35 years later when it starts up again . ( This plot twist makes " The Prowler " rather similar to " My Bloody Valentine " ) . This doesn't sit well with the killer and he resumes his murderous ways in the current day . Certain horror films can appeal to me the more that I watch them . " The Prowler " is one of those . It's not that it stands out all that much from typical stalk ' n ' slash fare , but director / co-producer Joseph Zito maintains a truly ominous mood right from the get-go . While the pacing lags at times ( when Zito goes for straight suspense , he drags the scenes out a little too long ) , it's overall a menacing flick with a truly creepy killer , dressed head to foot in army fatigues . The main reason to watch it is for some of the nastiest , most convincing , and cold-blooded splatter that Tom Savini has ever come up with . He delivers a series of highlights : a knife rammed through a skull , a pitchforking in a shower , a brutal throat slashing in a pool , and , to put the perfect capper on the whole thing , a head that blows up real good . " The Prowler " also doles out some tasty servings of female nudity . Leads Christopher Goutman and Vicky Dawson are okay if unremarkable in the leads , although it must be said that she is one very pretty and appealing performer . The supporting cast includes such people as Cindy Weintraub ( " Humanoids from the Deep " ) , Thom Bray ( ' Riptide ' , " Prince of Darkness " , " The Horror Show " ) , Lisa Dunsheath ( " Eddie Macon's Run " , " They All Laughed " ) , busy character actor John Seitz , and Bryan Englund ( " Crazy Mama " ) , son of Cloris Leachman who sadly made his last feature film appearance here . Popping up in brief roles are Hollywood legends Farley Granger ( " Strangers on a Train " ) as the Sheriff and a very under-utilized Lawrence Tierney ( " Dillinger " ' 45 , " Reservoir Dogs " ) . Although in retrospect the mystery to be solved is a little too easy to figure out , " The Prowler " still works as one hell of a savage and scary slasher , getting a lot out of its filming location of the community of Cape May in New Jersey . In a very interesting bit of trivia , co-writer Neal Barbera is the son of legendary animator Joseph Barbera of Hanna-Barbera fame !
Fine zombie flick and creditable debut for director Brett Leonard .	A surgeon named Ramsi ( Danny Gochnauer ) at a mental institution is now an evil sadist performing horrific experiments on the inmates . " I've done life . . . now I'm doing death . " he explains to his distraught colleague , Swan ( Jeremy Slate ) . Swan puts a bullet in Ramsi's brain and seals off the basement where Ramsi has been committing these acts of atrocity . Twenty years later , a new inmate named Jane Doe ( super-sexy Cheryl Lawson ) is admitted . She doesn't know who she is , but is convinced that her memories weren't lost but deliberately taken from her . She strikes up a friendship with Christian ( Steffen Gregory Foster ) , an amiable type who is much more lucid than most of the inmates . When an earthquake shakes up the whole place , the evil Ramsi and his subjects are freed from the basement to terrorize the inmates and staff . Leonard and his producer / writing partner Gimel Everett came up with an efficient little horror movie that really makes the most of a very small budget ( approximately $350 , 000 ) . The zombies are quite nasty and repellent and the movie , at least in its uncut incarnation , doesn't skimp on the gore ( Ed Martinez does fine work here ) . Leonard , Everett , and crew know how to maximize the inherent atmosphere of their location , a genuinely spooky real-life institution that had been shut down for a number of years and then in a state of disrepair . The movie has some highly entertaining characters , such as " Sister " Clair ( Geha Getz ) and the Nurse Ratched-like Nurse Kygar ( Joan Bechtel ) , and delivers some good and creepy moments . Lawson delivers a sympathetic enough performance in the lead ; she is indeed a fine screamer and it's appreciable to see her do so many scenes ( no matter how improbably ) running around in a skimpy , midriff-baring T-shirt and underwear . Veteran Slate ( who also appeared in Leonard's film " The Lawnmower Man " ) is excellent and Foster is engaging as the emerging hero . Mara Everett ( Gimel's daughter , 16 years old at the time ) is cute as an ill - fated nurse , with Jack Sunseri , the man who came up with the genesis for the movie , in an on-screen role as the head orderly . And Gochnauer is marvelously campy and creepy . I found this a good and entertaining movie with plenty of atmosphere , imagery , violence , eye candy , and some good camera angles as well . It's a horror movie worth catching . My only wish now would be to find one of those interactive video boxes ( push a button , and the eyes of the zombie on the cover would light up ) that the movie came in back in the day .
A wonderful addition to the " terror along the highway " genre .	Stacy Keach , in an engaging lead performance , is Pat Quid , an American big rig driver in Australia . With only his lovable dingo companion Boswell as his companion , he's given to lengthy monologues and poetic musings as he drives the desolate highways making his deliveries . He comes to believe that a mystery man driving a green van may be the serial killer plaguing the area ; as he pursues the stranger , he acquires a new female companion in hitchhiker Pamela Rushworth ( Jamie Lee Curtis ) and together they pick up the mans ' trail . Director Richard Franklin , who sadly passed away earlier this year at an all-too-young age , has crafted here an unconventional thriller . It was unpredictable and intriguing at all times , and had its fair share of suspense . Keach anchors the film nicely , especially important since he's often the only human character on screen . His is a laid-back , charming , and delightfully nuanced role , and it's simply one of the best performances that I've seen him give . Curtis offers a typically spunky and appealing counterpart to Keachs ' eccentricity , as soon as she makes her first appearance . The Australian outback , not surprisingly , is incredibly well captured on film by cinematographer Vincent Monton - some of these landscapes are just breathtaking - and deserve to be seen in the proper Panavision aspect ratio . Composer Brian Mays ' score is magnificent , as well . Franklin , a fan and disciple of no less a filmmaker than Alfred Hitchcock , of course then went on to helm the surprisingly enjoyable " Psycho II " , a much better sequel than anyone could have expected it to be . His references to The Master in this film are most welcome . " Roadgames " may bring up comparisons to similar films like the earlier " Duel " and the later " The Hitcher " , but it's a gripping film with its own merits and it's worthy of discovery . I highly recommend it .
Pretty good as killer croc / alligator movies go .	Travel writer Peter McKell ( Michael Vartan ) is one of several tourists partaking in a boat tour of the Australian wilderness . The always wonderful Radha Mitchell plays Kate Ryan , their knowledgeable guide . On their way back , they spot what they think is a flare fired in the distance . Kate says she's obliged to check it out , so they head in that direction . What happens is that they end up in the domain of a particularly stealthy , nasty , and large crocodile that strands them on an island that they will have to leave sooner or later before it gets submerged by the tide . Greg McLean here follows up his harrowing psycho-in-the-Outback tale " Wolf Creek " with this entertaining entry in the killer croc / alligator genre . It gets points from me for maintaining a certain amount of suspense and viewer involvement . It also plays out in an interesting way , not quite adhering to a typical " pick off the characters one at a time " formula . Granted , the characters often take turns grating on one's nerves , but neither are they too overbearing . McLean and company are wise to keep their ferocious beast off screen as much as possible , in the effective " Jaws " tradition . Even when it is on screen , it's kept in the dark ( this movie makes great use of the dark ) much of the time , making it genuinely scary . Primary assets also include a stirring music score and gorgeous scenery ( naturally ) . It's also nice to see " Wolf Creek " villain John Jarratt in a small supporting role here . A better than average movie of its type , " Rogue " is decent horror that's definitely worth a look .
Slick and exciting action movie .	As the movie opens , FBI agent Warren Stantin ( Sidney Poitier ) gets involved in a hostage situation that ends badly . The elusive , cold-blooded villain escapes and ends up infiltrating a hiking party being led through the forests of the Pacific Northwest . This forces Stantin , a true city slicker , to enlist the aid of rugged mountain guide Jonathan Knox ( Tom Berenger ) , whose girlfriend Sarah ( Kirstie Alley ) is leading the party . This well crafted movie hits the ground running and unfolds at a steady if not breakneck pace . A constant sense of tension is maintained and there are no subplots or diversions to distract us from the story at hand . It's also as fine a " man vs . the elements " story as it is a " cop vs . killer " story ( not to mention a " fish out of water " story as both Poitier and Berenger end up in environs beyond what they're used to ) and it shows us some breathtaking scenery , to boot . An ingenious touch was to keep the killers ' identity a secret until a pivotal moment halfway through when he dispatches everybody else in the hiking party in a great set piece . Several tough-looking character actors and prominent screen villains play the members of the party - Clancy Brown , Andrew Robinson , Richard Masur , Frederick Coffin , Kevin Scannell - so it's a lot harder to single out a particular one . Poitier gives the picture an added sense of importance with his effortless ability to project authority and determination ; it's all the better for his presence . He even gets to indulge in some amusing comic relief as he interacts with horses and bears . Berenger is fine in support , while a likable Alley has her moments - like eating a fish raw ( ! ) when the killer refuses to start a fire for fear that it will signal the heroes . An engaging , high-energy movie , it's fine and slick entertainment as mainstream Hollywood thrillers go . Great fun .
Never trust horror film-makers when they use the word " final . "	Third killing spree for Jason Voorhees begins after he revives and escapes from a morgue . This time , he's got his murderous eye on a family that lives deep in the woods as well as the usual assortment of horny morons who have rented the house next door . Not every slasher movie can give you Crispin Glover AND Corey Feldman . That said , this is a routine slasher movie relying on a durable F13 formula with no attention paid ( obviously ) to fixing the holes in the script . It's still plenty scary thanks to the setting and the photography . It really does feel creepy at times . And thanks to the efforts of make-up effects guru Tom Savini , the kills are gory in a show-stopping way . One other thing : it is clearly wrong to dismiss Jason as a brainless killing machine ; if he goes out of his way to carry his victims around and put them on display as well as cutting electricity and phone lines , then there is clearly some sort of thought process going on in that ugly head of his . Of course , it wouldn't be an F13 movie if we didn't have characters who behaved like real dolts . Some of the characters ( Tommy ( Feldman ) , Trish , Sara ) are actually reasonably likable - but some are so annoying ( Axel , Ted ) you may end up begging to see them get offed . Worth noting : the character of Rob ( E . Erich Anderson ) turns out to be the grief-stricken , revenge-seeking brother of the Sandra character from Part 2 . A solid entry in the series .
" Any last words ? " " Yeah . . . no more Mr . nice guy . "	Innovative Wes Craven horror thriller in which football jock Jonathan Parker ( Peter Berg ) discovers his own psychic link to barbaric mass murderer Horace Pinker ( Mitch Pileggi ) , a devil worshiper who enters homes under the cover of his occupation , a TV repairman . When Pinker is captured and executed , things actually take a turn for the worse when it is revealed that he can now move from body to body . Unfairly dismissed by Leonard Maltin as a " misbegotten farrago " , this film has a decent sense of humor and an ingenious climax where killer and hero run amok through TV land . The film-makers have fun with their gimmick , delivering a movie that is hip , clever and stylish ( even satiric ) , if a little long . The cast performs well , with special kudos for Pileggi for his intensity and physical presence . Look for cameos by such diverse faces as guitarist Kane Roberts , drug guru Dr . Timothy Leary , and even " Nightmare on Elm Street " heroine Heather Langenkamp as a victim . Craven's children have bit parts , and the director himself appears as a neighbor at the film's conclusion . I enjoyed the hard rock songs , especially Megadeth's cover of Alice Cooper's " No More Mr . Nice Guy " . The plot device of a homicidal killer being able to possess human victims at will may not be original , but in a film as solidly entertaining as this one , it's not a major quibble .
Spirited escapism .	Fairly clever and very pleasing horror comedy in which a film class needs to come up with some money . Their idea is logical enough : rent a movie theater and put on an all-night screening of various schlock horror films . Little do they know that a real-life horror show will play out as the films-within-the-film play out . A vengeance-crazed , facially scarred murderer is out to get them all . A movie like this would be especially endearing for folks like me who would genuinely get a kick out of the various movies on display : " Mosquito " , " The Amazing Electrified Man " , and " The Stench " . The film-makers clearly had fun making these little tributes / lampoons of inept low-budget genre fare . In fact , they're more entertaining than anything else here . A bonus is seeing posters for such enjoyable actual titles as " The Incredible Melting Man " and " The Deadly Mantis " . An engaging cast plays this for all it's worth , especially Tom Villard as Toby . Jill Schoelen is as wonderfully appealing as ever , and Dee Wallace Stone , Tony Roberts , and Ray Walston contribute greatly in smaller parts . Filmed on location in Jamaica , there's a respectable amount of pizazz to these proceedings . It moves along very well and at the least certainly isn't ever boring . The gimmicks ( reminiscent of the kind of thing that William Castle did so well ) , the costumes , and Paul Zazas ' music score all add to the appeal . This movie definitely put on a smile on my face .
" Watch what you call my car . . . she's real sensitive . "	Back in 1983 , Stephen King was such a popular author that this film adaptation went into production before the book was even published . King had been satisfied enough with producer Richard Kobritz's TV miniseries adaptation of his novel " Salem's Lot " to send him a few manuscripts . One was " Cujo " , another was " Christine " . Kobritz decided he liked the latter more , and pursued it as a film project . Accomplished film-maker John Carpenter , who at the time was still suffering the effects of the critical and commercial failure of his previous film , " The Thing " , agreed to take the helm , and Bill Phillips was hired to write the screenplay . Phillips eliminated much of the material of the novel ( especially the central character of the malevolent spirit Roland D . LeBay ) and both he and Carpenter agreed to more or less focus the film on Christine herself . In the film , Christine is possessed with a murderous , vengeful personality , seemingly for no reason at all . She is simply as evil as an inanimate object can get . Before she even comes off the assembly line , she's injured one man and killed another . Eventually , she comes into the life of hopeless high school nerd Arnie Cunningham ( Keith Gordon , in his first top-billed role , and offering a dramatic tour de force ) and helps to transform him from pathetic dweeb to dangerous 1950's style rebel - complete with 1950's style wardrobe . As the car sets about methodically eliminating most of the characters who cause Arnie grief , Arnie's loyal , level-headed jock friend Dennis Guilder ( John Stockwell ) and beautiful , would-be girlfriend Leigh Cabot ( Alexandra Paul ) try their darnedest to save Arnie and get rid of the car once and for all . While I myself found this movie to be rather lacking in terms of scares , suspense , and atmosphere , it's still a pleasantly well-crafted and stylish film . Carpenter contributes another of his marvelous electronic scores , and the film is peppered with vintage rock ' n ' roll songs . Approximately 25 different cars were used for the film - many of them ended up completely destroyed - and the special effects are admirable , especially in all scenes where Christine is repairing herself . One standout scene has Christine pursuing pudgy thug Moochie Welch ( Malcolm Danare ) into an exceptionally narrow loading dock , and then SQUEEZING herself inside so she can annihilate him . The wonderful cast is a heavy asset . Stockwell and Paul were certainly okay , but even better are the familiar faces in the character parts - Roberts Blossom as George LeBay , Robert Prosky as Will Darnell , and Harry Dean Stanton as Detective Rudolph Junkins . Kelly Preston appears in an early role . Bill Ostrander , as lead bully Buddy Repperton , has always struck me as a great casting choice ( Gordon and Carpenter remark in the DVD commentary that he seems to be partly channeling John Travolta in his performance - appropriate , because the film takes place in 1978 , when Travolta was experiencing his original bout of stardom ) , because he looks EXACTLY like I'd always imagined Buddy Repperton would look when I visualized the action while reading the novel . Here's an interesting thing to take note of : the actors playing Arnie's rather unlikable parents are named CHRISTINE Belford and Robert DARNELL . Just coincidence ? I myself don't know . Like I said , I don't really find it to be all that scary but it certainly offers a fair amount of fun . It's not a top-drawer King adaptation but it's definitely not one of the worst ones either .
Not entirely what I expected , but still pretty good stuff .	A ski-mask wearing , barbaric psychopath butchers the lovely young ladies in an L . A . apartment building utilizing the various implements to be found in his trusty toolbox . Now , this unquestionably trashy , nasty , and flashy slasher flick doesn't exactly end there . If you think that's all the plot that the movie has , think again . After a couple of murders are out of the way , the killer kidnaps an adorable teenager ( Pamelyn Ferdin ) , intending for her to replace the daughter that he lost in a car crash . The incredibly extended sequence where he is revealed ( most people will probably be able to figure out who he is before they even watch this ) and soothes the bound and gagged girl turns out to be rather heartfelt , completely taking the movie out of slasher flick territory . It's a jarring but , I have to say , interesting turn of events . It ultimately resolves itself in a fascinatingly ugly , melodramatic and disturbing finish . Veteran actor Cameron Mitchell , who after a very prestigious start to his career , would start to turn up in more and more low-budget junk as his career went on , is a marvelously scuzzy lead . Ferdin projects the appropriate amount of childhood innocence and naiveté , while other youthful actors from the period , Wesley Eure ( ' Land of the Lost ' ) and Nicholas Beauvy ( " The Cowboys " ) play good friends , one with a deadly secret ; veteran Aneta Corsaut ( ' The Andy Griffith Show ' , " The Blob " ' 58 ) and Tim Donnelly as one hell of an incompetent detective round out the cast . The film has a wonderfully disgusting opening act , as the blood is piled on and the scantily clad victims scream their hearts out . Most unusual is that , despite the beautiful eeriness of George Deatons ' music score , what actually accompanies these great murder set pieces are a couple of slow and soft country songs ! ( The killer , obviously a music lover himself , is often heard humming along ! ) The best moment occurs when Marianne Walter , a . k . a . 80's porn actress Kelly Nichols , is seen pleasuring herself in a bubble bath before the toolbox murderer comes calling . Overall , it's a fetid piece of celluloid junk that hits just the right spot , a raw and depraved vintage example of prime 1970's exploitation horror fare .
All the more impressive for being a " poverty row " production .	Amazing low-budget film noir about Al Roberts ( Tom Neal ) , piano player in a NY restaurant , who lets sweetheart Sue Harvey ( Claudia Drake ) go to LA so she can seek her fame and fortune . He eventually decides to join her there , and has to hitch-hike his way there having no money . From there , the decisions and acquaintances that he makes seal his fate . In particular , meeting female hitch-hiker Vera ( Ann Savage ) , who's got his number . Shot in just six days in two principal locations ( the hotel room and the car ) , the budget here was so small that the car in the film was director Edgar G . Ulmer's own . Yet , this is one of those cases where the small budget helps matters , giving the film a somewhat intimate feeling with a very straightforward story and a minimum of characters with whom to get acquainted . It definitely has the classic noir look and feel : it gets a lot out of its contrast between dark and light , and has characters who are if not outright rotten at least flawed in some way . ( For one thing , Al is a terminally negative thinker with a preponderance of self - pity . ) Right from the start , this film perfectly captures a feeling of despair , and a sense of things continuously spiraling out of control , with seemingly no light at the end of this tunnel . Neal is just right for his part , with nice supporting bits by Drake and Edmund MacDonald as Charles Haskell , Jr . , the basically affable but ultimately dubious man from whom Al hitches a ride . But the film truly belongs to Ms . Savage , in a vivid , scenery-devouring portrait of undiluted greed , ruthlessness , and desire for control . Whether sober or drunk , she never hesitates to try to put Al in his place . She definitely sizes up as one of the most formidable and frightening femme fatales in the film noir genre . Granted , it is wrapped up rather quickly with some plot details ( Vera's possible illness , or her grand scheme to pass off Al as Haskell , who turns out to be the long lost son of a dying rich man ) mentioned without being paid off , but the film still gets considerable impact from its compelling and sordid central story . Considering that the phrase " film noir " literally translates as black or dark film , it truly applies here . This is one very dark film , and very entertaining . While typing this , I was reminded of the phrase " no fate but what we make " utilized in " Terminator 2 : Judgment Day " . I think that one also works quite well in terms of this story .
A fine serving of shameless sleaze .	Ever-cute Linda Blair is sent to a women's prison on trumped-up murder charges and has a very hard adjustment to make . Not only is she ill-prepared for this new world that she's entering , but this is as sleazy an environment as one could find . There's nothing but corruption as far as the eye can see . To top it off , we get lesbians , rape , dope dealing , shower scenes , and the gloriously enjoyable like . This film certainly has a dream of a B level line-up . John Vernon is the lascivious warden with the hot tub in his office ( to top this off , Vernon's actress daughter Kate is one of the inmates ! ) , Stella Stevens the crooked head guard , and Sybil Danning and Tamara Dobson play rival gang leaders . In addition , we've got such familiar performers as Henry Silva , Nita Talbot , Louisa Moritz , Jennifer Ashley , Edy Williams , Monique Gabrielle , and Irwin Keyes . Everybody gives it 100 % , which helps immensely , and one can't fault a casting director who goes for so many attractive ladies as the convicts . It's every bit the grim , gritty , and ugly bit of grind house filth that it needs to be . Co-writer / director Paul Nicolas stages it with flair and a great sense of the relentlessly trashy . He's all business and clearly has every intention of giving the audience what they want . It starts off on a sordid note and heads steadily towards the gripping final riot . A real hoot of a W . I . P . flick .
Silly name but decent results .	Backwoods grocer Ed Harley ( Lance Henriksen ) loses his adorable young son when he is accidentally killed by young city folk on motocross bikes . He goes to see a cabin-dwelling crone ( a spooky Florence Schauffler ) who helps him resurrect a demon ( i . e . " Pumpkinhead " ) so he can exact revenge on the youngsters . When he changes his mind , he learns it is too late to stop the demon's massacre . As the directorial debut of makeup and visual effects maestro Stan Winston , this is genuinely stylish and eerie - and gory , of course - and adds up to a pretty entertaining monster movie . Strongest asset is the spooky nighttime photography of the rural settings , although it also did well at engaging my emotions ( I felt genuinely sad when the little boy died , for example ) . Henriksen , as usual , delivers a good performance . The monster itself is genuinely nasty and creepy and is somewhat reminiscent of the title creatures in the " Alien " series ( and is played by Tom Woodruff , Jr . , a member of the effects team ) . The good supporting cast includes such folk as Jeff East and John DiAquino , with reliable character veterans George " Buck " Flower and Lee de Broux in small parts . Former child star Mayim Bialik ( ' Blossom ' ) can be seen as one of the Wallace children .
Very likable 1980's " sex comedy " .	Ah , yes , the 1980's , the era of the " sex comedy " , where raunch was the primary goal , most likely launched by Bob Clarks ' memorable and financially successful hit " Porky's " . Frat boys Joe ( Cameron Dye ) and Larry , a . k . a . " Mother " ( Tim Robbins ) are on vacation in Palm Springs , obliged to bring along well-intentioned , awkward Wendell ( Stephen Geoffreys ) and help him gain his confidence with the ladies as a favor to Wendells ' dad , who is paying for the trip . Joe and Mother compete with stuck-up , filthy rich members of a rival frat , Chas ( Leigh McCloskey ) and J . C . ( Matt McCoy ) to get into the bed of beautiful blonde Ashley ( Sheree J . Wilson ) . Despite the one-track mind of many of our male characters , this film isn't as raunchy as others of its kind , although it does have its moments . It's surprisingly very likable ; much like the character of Wendell , it has a real heart , leading to the kind of feel-good resolution where the males learn their lessons and become better people . The laughs are good-natured and frequent enough , and the performances very spirited . Adhering to the formula of the times , the young ladies are very attractive and look good with and without clothes . The cast is full of familiar faces like John Vernon ( " Animal House " ) , here stuck once again in grumpy , pompous , party-pooper mode , Amanda Bearse ( ' Married with Children ' ) , Kathleen Kinmont ( " Halloween 4 " ) , Barbara Crampton ( " Re-Animator " , " From Beyond " ) , Max Wright ( ' Alf ' ) , and Britt Ekland as a waitress . The films ' extremely heavy 1980's feel - including songs , wardrobes , hairstyles , and the rest - may also add to the appeal for anyone who lived through that era . Upbeat , engaging , and amusing , " Fraternity Vacation " is a good dose of 1980's sex-oriented nonsense .
A rough and rousing period adventure .	Paul Verhoevens ' first American English-language movie is set in 16th century Europe during a time of unrest . ( It's also a time when bubonic plague is ravaging the countryside . ) A team of mercenaries , led by Martin ( a smooth , charismatic Rutger Hauer ) , is hired to help an ousted nobleman . However , when he goes back on his word to them , they strike back in a big way . Agnes ( Jennifer Jason Leigh , fine in more ways than one ) , the young woman arranged to be the wife of the noblemans ' son , is kidnapped by the gang and becomes a part of their depraved celebrations . While the American accents - and a stream of profanity - heard give this movie more of a modern flavor than other movies of its type , " Flesh + Blood " is still striking , visceral entertainment . Verhoeven truly delivers both components of the movies ' title . Leigh does some appreciable full frontal nudity ; there are even fleeting glimpses of male nudity ! The level of debauchery is high ; this gang knows how to have a good time . The doses of graphic violence give the movie a hearty kick . Granted , this movie isn't for the faint of heart or the easily offended , but it's fun for those with certain tastes . Typically stylish cinematography by Jan De Bont captures the countryside very well . Basil Poledouris's score also impresses . The top-notch international cast is clearly having a good time with the material . Susan Tyrrell as Celine and Ronald Lacey ( you may remember him as the bespectacled , creepy Nazi thug in " Raiders of the Lost Ark " ) particularly tear up the scenery . Solid supporting turns by Tom Burlinson , Jack Thompson , Brion James , John Dennis Johnston , Bruno Kirby , and Fernando Hillbeck add to the entertainment value . Nancy Cartwright , voice of Bart Simpson , has an especially amusing role wherein she actually shows the virginal Leigh how to have sex ! At two hours and eight minutes long , this does go on a bit , but it's never at any time ever boring . It's just fun from beginning to end .
For a fifty-year-old movie , it holds up very well .	As a result of atomic testing in the American southwest in 1945 , a horde of giant , mutated ants emerges nine years later and poses an immediate threat to the world . A police officer ( James Whitmore ) , a scientist ( Edmund Gwenn ) and his daughter ( Joan Weldon ) , and an FBI agent ( James Arness ) lead the strike against the creatures . " Them ! " is a tense , well-made and entertaining thriller that belies its age - it doesn't feel as dated as it probably should ( teletype machine aside ) . While I haven't seen very many of the " GIANT BUG " science-fiction movies of the 1950's , and therefore can't make any real comparisons , I can believe the statements made by others that this is among the best of its kind . It is genuinely creepy and intelligent ( with decent special effects ) , it actually has good dialog , and it climaxes in a tense hunt for the ants in the storm drains under Los Angeles . It features one good comedy-relief sequence when Gwenn gets frustrated with the requirements of using the headsets . For a guy who has grown up watching mostly more modern movies , I have to say that I liked this one .
Empire Pictures gem in need of its own resurrection via DVD .	A long-defunct prison , shut down for over 20 years , is re-opened and Ethan Sharpe ( the late , great character actor Lane Smith ) , once a guard there , is put in place as warden . As the prisoners are put to work fixing the place up , they're instructed to break into the old execution room . This unleashes a fierce spirit that wreaks merciless havoc upon both guards and prisoners ; cool-as-can-be low-key prisoner Burke ( Viggo Mortensen , showing real poise in an early role ) is thrust into the role of hero . I know it's a no-brainer to praise the film for its atmosphere ( it was shot in an actual abandoned penitentiary near Rawlins , Wyoming ) , but it elevates this horror film to a higher level . It's got a great sense of foreboding , established right at the outset . Director Renny Harlin made his fourth directorial effort here ; it got him the " Nightmare on Elm Street 4 " directing gig and effectively began an impressive career in mainstream action movies , thrillers , and horror films . It may have stock characters , but it's got a capable cast bringing them to life : Chelsea Field as the young woman vying for prison reform , Lincoln Kilpatrick as weary veteran convict Cresus , Tom Everett as restless con Rabbitt , Ivan Kane as the outgoing Lasagna , Tommy " Tiny " Lister as soft-spoken giant Tiny , and Arlen Dean Snyder as Captain Horton . It's also worth noting as an early acting credit for Kane Hodder ( as the vengeful spirit ) that helped him land the gig of playing Jason Voorhees in the " Friday the 13th " series . Decent special effects , moody lighting courtesy of prolific genre cinematographer Mac Ahlberg , spooky music by Richard Band and Christopher Stone , great visuals , the incredibly gloomy location , and an overall flashy and intense presentation help to make it quite entertaining . It's nasty , gruesome , and good fun for a horror fan .
Good film !	John Russell ( George C . Scott ) , a widower who lost his wife and child in a roadside accident , moves into an opulent mansion and becomes aware of its tragic history ; he works at the solving the mystery with the help of a new acquaintance , Claire Norman ( Trish Van Devere , Scott's real-life wife ) . Solid , mystery / horror / thriller is competently made and unlike lame junk like " The Amityville Horror " , it actually manages to be spooky . And it does this without relying on special effects or any other sort of gimmickry . It just tells a simple ghost story that for once is refreshingly uncomplicated ( of course , it helps that Scott's dialog is full of explanation ) . It's a nice throwback to earlier classics like 1963's " The Haunting " and I can see why some people would hold it in high regard . In fact , I would put it the same league as Carpenter's " Halloween " , another classic masterpiece of subtlety and dread . Excellent cast of professional actors is a big plus . One of the better scare movies ever made and worthy of re-discovery .
Good work by this talented film-making team .	Despite having the familiar horror movie element of youngsters stranded in a remote rural setting and being preyed upon by a homicidal lunatic , the Ozzie import " Wolf Creek " is supposed to be based on real events . Three travelers - Brit girls Liz ( Cassandra Magrath ) and Krista ( Kestie Morassi ) and Ozzie stud Ben ( Nathan Phillips ) have car trouble after exploring a tourist attraction ( an enormous crater caused by a meteor landing ) and run into jovial Outback resident Mick ( John Jarratt ) . However , since this is a horror thriller , it's a safe bet that Mick will be revealed to something more than just some lovable Outback-dwelling bloke . " Wolf Creek " is a slow-moving movie at first , taking its time to hit its stride , although , it's true , this does help us to get to know these characters more and therefore genuinely reel at the horrible tortures that they endure . The film , naturally enough , really kicks into gear once Mick makes his appearance . It's a tour de force performance by Jarratt , and hopefully we can see more of him in the years to come . I know that this had been said before ( probably many times ) , but this character truly does seem like " Crocodile " Dundee if he had the personality of , say , Freddy Krueger , or Leatherface , for that matter . Once the film starts to delve into its horror content , it becomes a pretty harrowing , intense , and sadistic story . I found it very easy to sympathize with these characters , especially since they are portrayed as likable , down-to-earth kids and not the troupe of sex-obsessed morons that you would see in many an American slasher picture . The unrated cut that I watched has some gruesome set pieces that really bring it home ( like other films of its kind , it's safe to say this movie is not for everybody ) . Despite the " grainy " , low-budget nature of the film , it has one ace of a cinematographer , Will Gibson , who captures on high definition video some absolutely gorgeous shots of the Australian countryside . It's as much fun to look at as it is to watch ( production designer Robert Webb also does a decent job at creating Mick's back-of-the-beyond lair ) . The acting , directing , script ( by the director , Greg McLean , also the producer ) , and music are all impressive . It's darn good entertainment of its kind .
Disquieting little film .	Professor Quatermass ( played here by Brian Donlevy ) has had his dream of colonization of the moon quashed , but he really has no time to brood over it , as he gets wind of an insidious conspiracy reaching to high levels of the government . This involves the sudden arrival of what seem to be tiny meteorites that , once handled , give people a skin condition worse than acne . Not only that , but Quatermass discovers an installation not far away that's a mirror image of his own moon colony , which the local populace has been roped into constructing . This intriguing plot , concocted by Nigel Kneale , maintains a feeling of paranoia and distrust , coming up with some pretty good twists and some striking scenes . One I can still remember has a minor character dispatched by seeming to have been tarred . The story starts ominously enough , and although it takes a while to build up steam , it proves to be worth it , as the climax brings it all together in a satisfying way . Only the special effects really disappoint here , once the alien menace needs to be revealed . I felt that it effectively foreshadowed films like Romeros ' horror classic " Night of the Living Dead " , with its presentation of mindless drones under no control of their own ( the word " zombies " is even used in this film ) , and it does indeed invite comparisons to " Invasion of the Body Snatchers " by depicting a lack of humanity and adherence to conformity as an end in itself . One aspect I enjoyed was seeing the uninfected locals band together and march towards the installation ; this for me was like an entertaining throwback to classic Univeral chillers and their angry villagers . Donlevy makes for a memorable departure from the standard image of a sci-fi hero : he's gruff , not terribly likable , and obviously has little patience . He's well supported by John Longden as Lomax , Bryan Forbes as Marsh , and William Franklyn as Dr . Brand . Fans of Hammer Studios ' long line of horror films will also note the presence of the ubiquitous Michael Ripper . Bolstered by the eerie music by the always reliable composer James Bernard and the stark black & white photography by Gerald Gibbs , " Quatermass 2 " is a good entry in this series , and worth seeking out for discriminating sci-fi / horror fans .
A nice vampire romp from the always flashy 1980's .	College kids Keith ( Chris Makepeace ) and A . J . ( Robert Rusler ) want to join a fraternity but are bored with the initiation rites . A . J . gets the bright idea to go into the city to hire a stripper ; he figures that by providing such entertainment for a frat party they'll be sure to get in . Unfortunately , the place they choose , " The After Dark Club " is really a den of . . . you guessed it , vampires . This includes star attraction Katrina ( the always striking and rather unnerving Grace Jones ) , as well as the staff , right up to the boss Vic ( veteran comic Sandy Baron ) . As the night goes on , Keith has one nightmarish encounter after another . This is a fun , punchy movie that combines scares and laughs with a truly kinky edge and a gleefully outrageous tone . It's a wild ride of a movie ( that could easily have been an inspiration for " From Dusk Till Dawn " ten years later ) with impressive splatter and creature effects by Greg Cannom . It's enjoyably unpredictable - for the most part , I didn't know what would happen from one scene to the next . The solid cast really helps - Makepeace and Rusler are engaging leads , Dedee Pfeiffer enormously perky , cute , and appealing as new acquaintance Amaretto , Baron delightfully sleazy , Billy Drago his usual oily self as albino gang leader Snow , and Jones a real sight to behold . She doesn't appear throughout , but in her case , a little truly does go a long way . The only exception for me was Gedde Watanabe , whose comedy relief was more boring and annoying than funny . There's a great final confrontation between Makepeace , Pfeiffer , and Jones , although the ending fell short of being really satisfying . That's made up for a little by an interesting end credit crawl . Full of the typical fashions , hairstyles , and songs of the period , " Vamp " may inevitably date itself in this way , but it holds up as a fine piece of spooky and silly horror entertainment just the same .
Morgan Freeman really makes this a must-see .	The late Christopher Reeve stars as Jonathan Fisher , an investigative reporter who tries to tackle the story of a pimp's day-to-day life . Caving in to the pressure of an impending deadline , he comes up with a fictional story . The unfortunate side effect of this fabrication is that the assistant district attorney ( Jay Patterson ) is convinced that he's telling the story of a real-life pimp , " Fast Black " ( Morgan Freeman , in his breakout , Academy Award-nominated performance ) , who's being prosecuted for murder . The Cannon Group made its fair share of entertaining thrillers , and action , horror , and sci-fi movies during the 1980's , but this has to stand as one of their more interesting efforts . It's a pretty good story ( written by David Freeman ) , consistently entertaining and easy to watch . Ultimately , it does a good job of portraying a seamy side of life , while contrasting that with the kind of high society that wouldn't ordinarily connect with it . And the fact that Fisher is not so different from " Fast Black " certainly comes across ; the movie does have something to say about the way that certain types in the news business conduct themselves , and the potential repercussions of their actions . I think that Reeve does a decent enough job in the lead , although it's definitely true that his co-stars fare much better . Kathy Baker is wonderfully appealing ( and sexy ) as Punchy , one of " Fast Black " ' s girls ; she shines in all of her scenes , especially when she's relating to Fisher the comedic account of her first ever trick . But Freeman emerges as the real star of the movie . In a role far removed from the calm , authoritative , and wise persona that has been his stock in trade in the years since , he shows his true range , portraying a cunning , ruthless and also intelligent criminal who can come off as genial and welcoming and then turn on a dime and reveal the ugly side lying underneath the smooth exterior . Mimi Rogers , Andre Gregory , Anna Maria Horsford , and Erik King co-star , with each of them delivering good performances as well . " Street Smart " is a solid movie with a good premise and presentation , enjoyable soundtrack , and some mighty fine moments , especially one involving Freeman , Baker , and a pair of scissors .
Gripping and tension filled ; the kind of movie that really puts the " thrill " in " thriller " .	A couple , David ( Luke Wilson ) and Amy ( Kate Beckinsale ) , whose relationship is obviously under severe strain , have car trouble , wouldn't you know it , in the back of the beyond , where they end up staying in one of those motels common to movies where the concept of " checking in , but not checking out " applies . The only form of entertainment in their extremely filthy unit consists of snuff films caught on tape ; David catches on fairly quickly that the films were shot in that same room , and from then on the two are fighting for their lives . Although it succumbs to the standard genre pitfall of " stupid people doing stupid things " early on in the movie ( I would have tried to leave a lot sooner ) , it's amazing how well this taut , well-crafted thrill ride delivers the goods . It's paced incredibly well , and actually succeeds in delivering not only real suspense , but jump scares that really work . It's a novel twist to have your heroes / victims not be sympathetic from the get go ; it makes their ultimate need to rely on each other in order to survive more compelling . Wilson and Beckinsale are both credible ( I'm very struck by how well Beckinsale can play an American ) , but veteran Frank Whaley steals the show as the motel manager whose geeky demeanor is an all-too-obvious mask for an insidious and evil nature . Filmed in a very dark fashion , and taking place mostly during one night , the film-makers , led by a capable director named Nimrod Antal ( I hope to see much more from him in the future ) are a stylish group of people ; it's simply a well made film from beginning to end . I particularly liked the masks that the killers wear ; they're kind of Michael Myers-like , and are done by a company called Almost Human , who also did the makeup effects . Even the main and end titles are pretty striking .
Very good !	Based upon Shirley Jackson's novel " The Haunting of Hill House " . " The Haunting " tells the story of a researcher ( Richard Johnson ) with an interest in the supernatural gathering together a group of people to take part in an experiment . These people will spend the night in a supposedly haunted 90-year-old New England mansion that does in fact have a sordid history . The movie is mostly told from the point of view of the emotionally fragile Eleanor ( a . k . a . Nel ) ( Julie Harris ) . There is no doubt in my mind : the 1999 remake of this movie is a travesty when compared to this very classy , subtle , and provocative horror thriller with enjoyable dialog and performances . This movie shows you practically nothing and forces you to make up your own mind what is making those noises and making doors bulge out . " The Haunting " may not be the scariest movie I've ever seen ( " Halloween " is still one of the best ) but if you do watch it at night with a minimum of lighting I'm sure it will get to some of you . The atmosphere is that strong - those of you who are sick of the tendency to show the audience EVERYTHING in contemporary horror thrillers should appreciate an old-fashioned fright fest like " The Haunting " . Filmed in England .
An emotionally satisfying little sci-fi tale .	Set in the 21st century , this story has humans exploring and colonizing the universe and running afoul of reptilian aliens named The Drac . During a dogfight with The Drac , pilot Willis Davidge ( the always charismatic Dennis Quaid ) crash lands on a planet with a rather forbidding environment . But so does Jeriba ( an excellent Louis Gossett , Jr . ) , a Drac , and the two are forced to see past their initial hatred of each other and work together in order to survive , developing a bond in the process . Astounding visuals provide just one important hook in this likable adventure . The landscapes are most impressive ; the balance of the story looks as if it really could be taking place on another planet . Cinematographer Tony Imi and production designer Rolf Zehetbauer prove a good team in giving the movie a great look . The plot , which is an effective ' 80's sci-fi updating of the premise of 1962s ' " Hell in the Pacific " ( starring Lee Marvin and Toshiro Mifune as an American and Japanese soldier stranded on an island during WWII ) , allows for a commendable message to shine through , of finding common ground and learning to accept differences and not always rely on first impressions . Given that for a fair balance of the movies ' running time they're the only characters on screen , Quaid and Gossett , Jr . anchor the movie very well with very believable performances . Gossett , Jr . , in particular , has the challenge of acting through heavy and convincing alien makeup by Chris Walas , which he definitely pulls off . Brion James pops up late in the movie in a typically enjoyable portrayal as an antagonistic cretin , Bumper Robinson is appealing as Jeribas ' offspring Zammis , and Lance Kerwin is likewise likable as Davidges ' ill-fated co-pilot . A movie that is both technically sound as well as full of heart , " Enemy Mine " is a very good movie that may not have been successful at the box office back in its time , but found its fans after its release to video . If you haven't yet seen it , I'd say it's worth checking out .
A slick , stylish and spooky Corman - Poe - Lovecraft - Price - Chaney combo .	Evil warlock Joseph Curwen ( Vincent Price ) is burned alive by an angry mob as this film opens . Over a hundred years later , his descendant , Charles Dexter Ward ( Price again ) is coming to the town of Arkham to claim the castle that Curwen once lived in . The new crop of villagers are suspicious of the newcomer , believing that he will be just like his ancestor . Roger Corman wanted a little break from his Edgar Allan Poe cycle , deciding that he wanted - just for once - to do an H . P . Lovecraft adaptation , believing that the style of the two writers was similar enough . " The Haunted Palace " is more or less based on the Lovecraft short story " The Case of Charles Dexter Ward " , and is bookended by Price recitals of the Poe poem . The result is neither Lovecraft nor Poe but a neat amalgam of ideas . Filmed in the excellent Panavision aspect ratio of the other Poe adaptations , Corman and his regular crew crafted a typically good looking horror movie . In contrast to his direct Poe adaptations , Corman had cameraman Floyd Crosby shoot darker than usual , which he felt better suited the style of Lovecraft . There are some really tense moments , and some shocking ones , to boot . Ted Coodley and Verne Langdon contribute some interesting and innovative makeup effects . A particular standout is the ominous music score by Ronald Stein ( some folks consider it his best ) - booming at times and really subtle at others . Vincent Price delivers yet another captivating ( dual ) performance , as he subtly delineates two different characters . The film has a truly superior supporting cast , as well , as Price gets to share scenes with another well-loved horror icon , Lon Chaney ( Jr . ) . Debra Paget is a lovely and bewitching female lead , and I thought that Frank Maxwell , Leo Gordon , and John Dierkes were all terrific . Especially welcome is old Hollywood favorite Elisha Cook ( Jr . ) . This is a grandly entertaining film , which should prove to be interesting if you pair it alongside 1992s ' " The Resurrected " ( directed by Dan O'Bannon ) , which is a more faithful adaptation of the Lovecraft story . I strongly recommend it .
A good conclusion to the series .	Good old Norman Bates ( Anthony Perkins , settling comfortably once again into that role ) is now supposedly living a " normal " life , married to a psychologist ( Donna Mitchell ) from the last institution in which he spent time . He often listens to a radio talk show hosted by Fran Ambrose ( the always wonderful CCH Pounder ) , and when her subject one night happens to be matricide - the killing of one's mother - he's inspired to call in and offer his expert opinion on the subject . This plot enables us to see Norman's background for the first time . We also get to see his infamous mother alive for the first time , and the possessive , repressive , domineering woman is played to the unhinged hilt by the gorgeous Olivia Hussey . The script is fascinating for its portrait of an unstable young man who never really had much of a chance in life , given what he had to grow up with . His mother , seemingly harboring something of an incestuous nature as well , is oddly mercurial and contrary ; while her over-the-top hang-ups about sex and men leads her to , at one point , dress Norman in drag and smear lipstick on him , she has no problem bringing a scruffy , macho boyfriend into the house at another . Henry Thomas of " E . T . " fame does well as the adolescent Norman , eliciting strong enough sympathy for what the future killer goes through . In a fine touch , we can see Perkins inserted into the flashback scenes as he recalls them through his older eyes . It's fun as always to see the iconic Bates house and motel . Bernard Herrmann's score is re - used to great effect . The intense script is courtesy of Joseph Stefano , the man who originally adapted the Robert Bloch novel for the landmark first film . Director Mick Garris moves it along at a brisk pace , and is able to amp up the tension when Fran and her colleagues struggle to prevent the next murder that Norman says will be inevitable . The acting is fine right down the line , with Warren Frost ( ' Twin Peaks ' ) seeming to be playing the same psychiatrist memorably portrayed by Simon Oakland at the end of the original " Psycho " . Garris's wife Cynthia and John Landis pop up in enjoyable small parts as people at the radio station . " Psycho IV : The Beginning " is a solid conclusion to this memorable series . It does a fine job of attempting to bring some sort of closure to Norman's story by finally allowing him to purge his memories and his past .
Pretty good low-budget genre fare .	Captain Hickock ( David Beecroft ) is sent to investigate a strange death resulting from experiments conducted in seclusion in the desert . The scientists in charge , Van Fleet ( ever wonderful character veteran James Hong ) and Erhardt ( Louise Fletcher ) are experimenting with advanced stages of sleep and this has caused an opening in an alternate dimension through which a violent , shape-shifting creature emerges and starts decimating the hapless crew . " Shadowzone " is noticeably better than other movies of its ilk . It's actually fairly well done ; writer / director J . S . Cardone establishes a dead serious tone , begins his movie on an ominous note , and creates some reasonable suspense throughout . Never does this intriguing tale get too cheesy or laughable at any point ; it's easy to get caught up in the story and be immersed in the dingy and claustrophobic atmosphere . Calling to mind past sci-fi / horror favorites like " Alien " and " The Thing " , it has great sets , superb music by Richard Band , and decent splatter by Mark Shostrom . The cast is also better than usual for this sort of thing , with Fletcher given the best part as the too-dedicated scientist . Miguel Nunez , whom genre fans will recognize from " Friday the 13th : A New Beginning " and " The Return of the Living Dead " , is good as computer technician Wiley , with the late character actress Lu Leonard stealing her scenes as the crusty cook . Those interested can also take note that there's a dose of both female and male nudity on display here . " Shadowzone " is an entertaining little movie worth checking out . In fact , I think it deserves to be better known .
A distinguished little thriller that deserves wider recognition .	The great character actor Terry O'Quinn shines here in the role of " Jerry Blake " , a demented killer so dedicated to his extremely old-fashioned values that he ends up killing whatever family he is with once they start disappointing him . Most likely inspired by the real-life story of John List , a creep who murdered his whole family and then hid for years until " America's Most Wanted " came along in the late 1980's and profiled him . " The Stepfather " is a solid and reasonably smart movie that gets a lot of juice from O'Quinn's believable performance that hides Blake's insanity behind a veil of well-intentioned good cheer and friendliness . Some of the victims are too stupid to feel sorry for when they get attacked , but otherwise it's easy to get involved with these characters and this story . The beginning is particularly chilling , even if the ending seems sort of inevitable and predictable . The movie is agreeably subtle for the most part , helping to make the brief bursts of violence more genuinely jarring . The supporting cast is perfectly acceptable if uninspired , although Jill Schoelen does have some appeal as the troubled stepdaughter who is suspicious of Jerry from the start . Overall , a respectable and entertaining movie . Now let's hurry up and get this movie on DVD in North America !
Good Stuff !	Dennis Quaid plays Alex Gardner , a psychically gifted young man who agrees to participate in a revolutionary program where others of his kind are projected into people's nightmares . Alex learns that pompous government man Bob Blair ( Christopher Plummer ) has a sinister motive for supporting this program . . . Thoroughly entertaining movie offers plenty of thrills , intrigue , and effects . It may not be anything truly special , but it's certainly above average of its type . The cast is enjoyable , too . I do have to agree with others on the music score , though - it does sound like somebody just aimlessly pounding away on a keyboard . It just doesn't work . " The Snakeman " is sort of an interesting monster . It doesn't altogether succeed because it frankly isn't that scary , but it's pulled off fairly well , using a combination of animation , makeup effects , and performance ( by character actor Larry Cedar , who also played the " airplane monster " in " Twilight Zone : The Movie " ) . I do like this cast - I enjoyed the work of Dennis Quaid and Max Von Sydow as I always do . Veteran , diminutive movie psycho David Patrick Kelly turns up as the evil counterpart to Quaid's character , and ' Cheers ' barfly George Wendt is a horror novelist who is observing the program for the purpose of research and figures out that Plummer is not to be trusted . " Dreamscape " is a stylish , nicely realized picture that moves along well although it does waste a little bit of time with the subplot of the attraction between Quaid and Kate Capshaw . The movie establishes that these two are hot for each other and then does little beyond that . I would have rather had a picture without an obligatory romantic subplot ( or sexual tension ) because it just didn't seem necessary to me . But that's just my opinion . It was released the same year as " A Nightmare on Elm Street " , coincidentally , so that's at least two films released in 1984 set largely in the world of dreams . And , like " A . N . o . E . S . " , this film submits the idea that if a person dies in a dream , they will die in the real world as well . Now , of course , I realize that the 2000 picture " The Cell " , starring J-Lo , Vince Vaughn , and Vincent D'Onofrio , actually rips off the central concept of this film ! I gave it .
I loved it !	David Harrison ( Jim Metzler ) travels with wife Sarah ( the stunning Morgan Brittany ) and their two adorable daughters to a remote Southwestern town so David can provide his expertise to the local plant . What this plant produces is artificial blood , but the folks who use it are vampires who are trying to eliminate " the old ways " and live in peace with humans . Count Mardulak ( a dapper David Carradine ) is the leader of this movement , but he receives opposition from another faction led by fanatical Jefferson ( screen veteran John Ireland , who's fun to watch ) that would rather be adhering to the tradition of sucking human blood . Co-writer / director Anthony Hickox ( " Waxwork " ) gives us a doozy of a genre-crossing film here . It's got horror , action , comedy , and drama , all in a Western setting . It's got a fantastic cast , magnificent photography ( it was filmed on location in Utah ) , some well-staged action scenes , and comes up with some great new twists on vampire lore . How many films of its kind will actually feature vampires firing guns ? It's wonderful from start to finish . Granted , not all of the dialog or performances ( or effects ; the bats are pretty unconvincing ) are too special , but it's got plenty of good moments , and side-splitting comedy relief from Bruce Campbell ( as the bumbling nebbish latest descendant of the Van Helsings ) and the superior character actor M . Emmet Walsh as quick-tempered local Mort . It's got some very amusing plot twists that keep it fresh and unpredictable . Hunky Maxwell Caulfield is intense and creepy villain ( and participant in Jefferson's scheme ) Shane , lovely Deborah Foreman is the sweet local gal who falls for Van Helsing , and the who's who assortment of other players plays this material for all it's worth : Dana Ashbrook , John Hancock , Dabbs Greer , Bert Remsen , " Sunshine " Parker , and George " Buck " Flower ( a real hoot just as he always is , and figuring in a howlingly absurd death scene ) . I would easily recommend this endearingly offbeat and well-crafted flick to others . It's too good to pass up .
Whether one likes it or hates it , there's no denying that one doesn't forget it .	" Cruising " became an extremely controversial film in its time ; whether it would continue to offend and repel viewers I don't know , but I feel that writer / director William Friedkin and his cast and crew deserve credit for taking viewers on such a morbidly compelling journey . It was never intended as any sort of commentary on this subculture ( much less an indictment ) , yet it rubbed many people the wrong way regardless . While officially based on a novel by Gerald Walker , Friedkin incorporated true-life elements into his screenplay , most notably the movement towards heavy leather and S & M inside the gay community . There were a series of murders in this environment , and this would form the core of the film ( real-life former detective Randy Jurgenson , a longtime technical consultant and bit player in films , was the man on the case who did just what Pacino's character does in this film ) . Al Pacino is patrolman Steve Burns , who agrees to infiltrate this community to find and apprehend the killer . He reports to his boss , Captain Edelson ( Paul Sorvino ) , while Karen Allen supplies the only genuine female presence in the film ( in an unfortunately undeveloped part ) as his girlfriend . " Cruising " is fascinating to watch in spite of itself . There's such an overpowering sense of seediness to it that it really hits a nerve . Friedkin and company completely immerse us in this environment ; they really did their homework and it shows . It may be a murder mystery at its core , but the setting in which it takes place definitely makes it something different . Fine NYC location work , an awesome soundtrack , and Jack Nitzsche's interesting music score all add to the overall effectiveness of the film . The cast really gives it 100 % . The always excellent Pacino and Sorvino are well supported by Richard Cox , Don Scardino ( horror fans may recognize him from " Squirm " and " He Knows You're Alone " ) , Joe Spinell ( as one monumentally creepy cop ) , Jay Acovone , and Gene Davis . Several prominent character actors and future stars have small parts : Barton Heyman , Ed O'Neill , James Remar , William Russ , Mike Starr , Leo Burmester , and Powers Boothe . " Cruising " presents us with a world where we can never be too sure of anyone or anything . It's undeniably lurid and likely to provoke strong reactions in many viewers . In the end , the element of danger in this world is suggested to be a constant . Friedkin takes a real matter - of-fact approach to all of the material ; things hardly need embellishing when much of them will already come off as outrageous to a fair portion of the audience . It's a well-crafted , risky , intense and provocative thriller that maintains an icy cold grip all the way through .
Laird Cregar makes this a must-see .	Ill-fated film star of the 1940's , Laird Cregar , gives an intense , committed , and sympathetic performance in this turn-of-the-century period piece about talented London composer George Harvey Bone ( Cregar ) , who suffers blackouts after which he has no memory of what may have happened . Although proved innocent of one murder committed at the beginning of the film , he turns out to have murderous impulses after all , as he begins to lash out at those in his life . Based on the novel by Patrick Hamilton , " Hangover Square " ( the title refers to an address ) is a meticulously made film with an engrossing story , well directed by John Brahm . As photographed by Joseph LaShelle , it looks great . The particularly striking sequences are the bonfire sequence and the final fire at the concert hall . Bernard Herrmann once again proves his worth by composing not only the score , but the moody and beautiful concerto as well . The imposing Cregar , sporting an affecting look of sadness throughout , delivers a wonderful performance as the increasingly obsessed Bone , who in his most sober moments is heartbreaking in his fear of losing control . It's a perfect swan song for the actor , who didn't even get to see the film hit theaters , passing away just months earlier - at the way-too-young age of 28 - most likely suffering from the effects of a crash diet that caused him to lose approximately 100 pounds . That adds an even greater sense of tragedy to the film itself . Linda Darnell offers a juicy supporting performance as the scheming and selfish singer who only likes Bone for what he can do for her ; George Sanders is solid as a doctor working for Scotland Yard , and Faye Marlowe is very appealing as the loyal friend who's quite rightly concerned about Bones ' dilemma . It's an entertaining , poignant melodrama / thriller ( I would not call it horror , even if it might be promoted as such ) that really works as well as it does thanks to the efforts of its leading man .
Very entertaining effort from Stuart Gordon .	Set during the Spanish Inquisition , this take on the Poe story features Grand Inquisitor Torquemada ( Lance Henriksen in a marvelously intense performance ) engaging in various acts of torture to get citizens to confess to witchcraft . He targets young baker Antonio ( Jonathan Fuller ) and his wife Maria ( the amazingly alluring Rona De Ricci , who looks great in and out of clothes ) , only to find himself lusting after her . He then proceeds to torture her , concluding that his lust can only be the result of her " bewitching " him . Putting aside anachronisms such as the lack of accents and the rather modern way much of the dialog is delivered , this is a solid effort from veteran genre director Gordon . It looks fantastic , with impressive sets and costumes . In his ever enjoyable fashion , Gordon spices it up with plenty of violence and his great touch for black humor . Granted , the broader comedy relief ( courtesy of Torquemadas ' clownish associates played amusingly by Jeffrey Combs , Stephen Lee , and William J . Norris ) I could have done without , but overall the film is commendably as intense as Henriksens ' central performance . It's very striking , involving ( De Ricci not only is very attractive , she really gets to the heart of her impassioned character ) , and lavish , with a typically fine music score by Richard Band . The strong supporting cast contributes equally vivid turns ; Frances Bay , Tom Towles , Mark Margolis are all excellent as well . Gordons ' actress wife Carolyn turns up , and as usual , there's a graphic demise in store for her . Oliver Reed pops up about halfway through the movie in a nice cameo as a Cardinal . It's a great Full Moon production and a film that any fan of Gordons ' " Re-Animator " or " From Beyond " ought to see .
The two Rays have a successful first collaboration .	Based on a Ray Bradbury story published in the Saturday Evening Post , this 1950's atomic age creature feature is about a giant rhedosaurus , freed from an icy tomb in the Arctic by an atomic bomb test ; it swims down the Arctic current and ends up on the rampage in NYC . A good , enjoyable cast , competent direction and script , and Ray Harryhausen's impressive stop-motion animation mingle in this little classic that delivered more for me after a second viewing . I have actually changed my opinion on some of these types of pictures . At first , I was a little impatient with the slowness of some scenes and the heavy emphasis on dialog , but now I'm better able to appreciate this film as well as " It Came From Beneath the Sea " , Harryhausen's giant-octopus-on-the-loose thriller . If I were rating ICFBtS today , I would give it . For low-budget pictures such as this , they actually deliver a fair amount of spectacle . So far I haven't seen many of the films that Harryhausen worked on ( 16 in total ) , but I'll get around to the rest of them sooner or later . Squinty-eyed Western veteran Lee Van Cleef is the soldier at the climax who fires the shot that kills the beast . James " Roscoe P . Coltrane " Best also has a tiny role .
Effective documentary about the making of " Freaks " .	Now regarded as a classic after many years of being reviled , Tod Brownings ' " Freaks " is given good documentary treatment . Film historian and author David Skal , who really knows his stuff about the horror films of the era , is just one of several amiable and informative interviewees . Real-life sideshow performers Johnny Meah , Todd Robbins , and Jennifer Miller ( Ms . Miller being a real-life bearded lady ) offer their own thoughts on their business , and Meah and Robbins provide their own compelling insight to and knowledge of the film . Running just a little longer than the actual film , this documentary covers the appropriate bases such as the genesis of the project , the casting , the production , the aftermath of the films ' release , and its subsequent re-discovery . Meah and midget actor Jerry Maren also talk about actually meeting and working with some of the films ' cast . In a nice touch , many of the freaks cast in the film get a brief summary of their lives and careers . Although the film and subject are worthy of even more discussion than what the documentary provides , there's still enough good information to go around here . It moves along quite well and is never less than absorbing . It's a good primer on the subject of sideshow attractions and a good companion piece to the film . It's definitely worth watching for fans .
An overlooked , entertaining Hammer Studios movie .	Young Janet Freeman ( Jennie Linden ) has been a nervous wreck ever since she discovered her father slain by her mother , who had gone crazy . Years later , she is suffering repeated horrible nightmares , upon which she is sent home from her girls ' school to live with guardian Henry Baxter ( David Knight ) . Things aren't any easier at home for this poor girl , unfortunately , even with the kind and loyal staff at hand , as well as new companion Grace Maddox ( Moira Redmond ) . To fully appreciate this twist-laden chiller from the legendary Hammer Studios , one must go in fresh with only a bare amount of information like I've relayed here . It's a genuinely spooky and atmospheric movie , well shot in Hammerscope ( by John Wilcox ) and directed by Freddie Francis with his venerable understanding of the genre . Night scenes are often shot in vast pools of darkness , setting a bleak and unsettling mood . One good example of solid suspense is the opening sequence in an eerily quiet asylum , and the music is nice and subtle here , making it work even better . Solid acting from the cast , especially Redmond , is another enjoyable aspect of the movie ; they all keep it interesting . Lindens ' performance allows for a sufficient amount of sympathy towards her character . Particularly striking is Clytie Jessop as the mysterious woman in white , with that scar on her cheek and her blank stare . An effective modern ( well , 1960's era modern , anyway ) spin on " old dark house " and Gothic type melodrama , this clearly isn't one of the better known Hammer movies . There are no vampires or mad doctors anywhere in sight , and there is a conspicuous absence of Hammer movie regulars . However , it's a move that pays off . An ultimately satisfying little movie with a cyclical quality to it , I hope I can help to make others discover it .
David Hess dominates it .	Raw and nasty exploitation from the director of " Cannibal Holocaust " which stars the sharp-featured Mr . Hess ( of " The Last House on the Left " infamy ) as a depraved lowlife who tags along with some yuppies to a party at a mansion . Alex ( Hess ) and simple-minded sidekick Ricky ( Giovanni Lombardo Radice ) eventually erupt into a frenzy of torture and rape and the stunned rich jerks suffer a night full of indignities . It is in a similar vein to the earlier Wes Craven film . Director Ruggero Deodato doesn't shy away from anything ; the film couldn't really be any more explicit . It's rough , disturbing , and primal , much like the Alex character , but at the same time I can't look away . It opens almost right away with Alex's rape of a stranger ( played by Hess's own wife , no less ! ) , so we know we're in for a film that isn't going to pull any punches . The offbeat touch of having a very plaintive , haunting ballad ( " Sweetly " ) recur throughout the film , even during some of the most depraved moments , is a little unsettling , to say the least . In an additional interesting touch , the victims aren't as sympathetic as one might think . They do come off as snooty and pompous . That said , that doesn't make it any easier to watch them get such a comeuppance . Radice is very appealing as the really rather harmless Ricky , who seems to crave Alex's friendship and approval a little too much ; he provides an effective counterpart to the carnal desire and rage displayed by Alex . It has a kind of stagy feel to it ; taking place mostly in one room , but it's very well staged , directed , and photographed . Ending with an unexpected twist ( which I actually kind of liked ) , it does quite effectively build up a substantial amount of blood lust by the end . An incredibly visceral and affecting film .
Rock-Solid Stephen King Adaptation .	After a catastrophic car accident , schoolteacher Johnny Smith ( Christopher Walken ) spends five years in a coma . When he wakes up , he soon discovers he has acquired the ability to predict future events . This new ability provides him with a scary revelation involving loud , aggressive senatorial candidate Greg Stillson ( Martin Sheen ) . The second of three Stephen King adaptations that were released in 1983 ( the first was " Cujo " ; the third was " Christine " ) . This is an emotionally involving , intense , and gripping combination of drama and thriller . Well directed by David Cronenberg , and well acted by the cast ( it is Walken's believable performance in the lead that is the best of all ) . I would assess it as having no major flaws . There is a key suicide that is more graphically bloody than the one in the novel , but that's a minor complaint . Overall , the movie is made with conviction and respect for the source material ( always an important factor ) . It emerges as one of the better Stephen King adaptations . Followed by a cable-TV series two decades later , starring Anthony Michael Hall . I am curious to know if this series is any good .
This is a decent Stephen King adaptation .	Big , friendly St . Bernard dog contracts rabies after being bitten on the snout by a bat , and proceeds to terrorize the locals , ultimately trapping a young mother ( Dee Wallace ) and her young son ( Danny Pintauro ) inside their run-down car and starting a siege . This is a good , solid little horror thriller . It's simple , straightforward , and unpretentious . Basically . . . " Cujo " doesn't fool around . It may take a while in getting to the good stuff while it sets up the story and the characters , but it emerges as one of the better examples of Stephen King cinema . Wallace , who at this point was on a career high after being top-billed in " The Howling " and " E . T . the Extra-Terrestrial " , delivers a convincing and sympathetic performance . Pintauro , who shortly after started playing Jonathan Bauer on the sitcom ' Who's the Boss ' was probably cast for his screaming ability - and scream he does . A special consideration goes out to the several Saint Bernards who played Cujo the dog at various points in the progression of the disease ( as well as good-enough makeup effects ) . For those of you who couldn't stomach the ( SPOILER ) heartbreaking ending of the novel , this movie ends on a much more positive note . Although you'd certainly have to be disgusted at the ignorance displayed by Cujo's selfish owners ( Ed Lauter , Kaiulani Lee ) . What a pair of jerks .
A smashing debut for Robert Rodriguez . . .	In director Rodriguez's first feature-length movie , Carlos Gallardo plays a " mariachi " , or singing guitar player , who is mistaken for a vengeful criminal in a small Mexico town and is chased around by thugs who are supposed to eliminate the other guy . The first film in the " El Mariachi " trilogy shows that an enormous budget is not always necessary in order to create decent entertainment . Made for a sum of only about $7 , 000 , the film was financed by the proceeds the director made from his time spent in a research facility . Obviously a labor of love , and made with genuine talent , the film is often incredibly violent , but very potent . The cast gives no indication of being amateurs ; they are all very good . Rodriguez , as he has done with his other pictures , handled several duties , and star Gallardo worked behind the scenes as well . The music , composed by several people , was enjoyable and really helped to set the mood at times . Followed by " Desperado " ( 1995 ) and " Once Upon a Time in Mexico " ( 2003 ) .
Intense early Cronenberg shocker .	Rose ( porn star Marilyn Chambers ) is riding on a motorcycle with boyfriend Hart ( Frank Moore ) when they have a nasty accident . She needs emergency surgery and the only place close enough is into plastic surgery . The doctor in charge ( Howard Ryshpan ) performs an unorthodox method of skin grafting that has unforeseen complications . Rose develops a growth - a very phallic one , at that - that emerges from a hole under her armpit , with which she drains blood ( she's now afflicted with an insatiable desire for the stuff ) from various hapless victims . They , in turn , come down with a rabies-like disease ( Rose is merely a carrier of this disease ) that turns them into primitive predators , and each new victim creates more in a true domino effect . David Cronenberg continued to explore the themes of his breakthrough film , " Shivers " , in this , his second feature . It shows good imagination , and allows him to add a larger scope to his action , creating an outbreak in an entire city ( Montreal ) as opposed to a single apartment building . It incorporates elements of vampire and zombie stories , sharing a kinship with the early George Romero feature " The Crazies " and becoming an antecedent of features such as " Outbreak " and " 28 Days Later " . He creates an impressively creepy mood , edging this bleak story steadily towards a downbeat conclusion . Some of his scenes and images are especially potent ; the one image of the frozen corpse of an early victim does make for a good hook for the cover art . This came in at about $565 , 000 , which while substantially larger than the budget for " Shivers " ( $185 , 000 ) , was still low enough for Cronenberg to have to work around it . And he uses some effective techniques to create the illusion of larger police and military forces than he really had access to . There was still outcry over films such as his to be receiving government funding , and in a sly move , this project was quietly co-financed with another so he could work around the dissenting voices . Cronenberg was keen on using Sissy Spacek , still pretty much unknown at the time , after he'd seen her in the film " Badlands " . Chambers was suggested by co-executive producer Ivan Reitman ; she'd expressed an interest into moving into mainstream fare , and Cronenberg had to admit that her notoriety would only help the film gain exposure . Of course , by the time " Rabid " had been released , Spacek had become a star thanks to " Carrie " , and in a highly amusing moment , Chambers passes by a poster for that film . Chambers naturally shows off her very nice body , but also proves herself to have some appeal as an actress ; she doesn't do a bad job . Moore does little better than Paul Hampton , the male lead of " Shivers " , but at least by the end he gets an opportunity to let loose when he realizes that Chambers has sealed her fate . Offering their solid support are Joe Silver - another veteran of " Shivers " - as the helpful Murray Cypher , Ryshpan as the dedicated Dr . Keloid , and pretty Susan Roman as Rose's friend Mindy . Folks in bits whom you may also recognize include Miguel Fernandes ( " The Kidnapping of the President " , " Ghost Story " ) as a man in a theater , Gary McKeehan ( " The Brood " ) as affable trucker Smooth Eddy , and future Cronenberg regular Robert A . Silverman as the young man in the hospital . " Rabid " is an effectively disquieting film , both gory and suspenseful . It's a good follow-up to " Shivers " and another solid addition to the early Cronenberg oeuvre , in which horror came from ' within ' rather than ' out there ' .
" Reality isn't what it used to be . "	The final film in what director John Carpenter calls his " apocalypse trilogy " , also including " The Thing " and " Prince of Darkness " , in which we essentially deal with the end of the world . Insurance investigator John Trent ( Sam Neill ) who's very , very good at his job , is actually seen being dragged into a mental hospital at the beginning of the film . As he tells his story to a psychiatrist , Dr . Wrenn ( David Warner ) , the real story of the film unfolds . Hired to locate popular horror author Sutter Cane ( Jurgen Prochnow ) , who's dropped out of sight , Trent and traveling companion Linda Styles ( Julie Carmen ) discover a town called " Hobb's End " that supposedly only exists in Canes ' fiction . The story really takes off here as Trent experiences one disturbing encounter after another , which , despite his best efforts to rationalize everything away , takes a dark hold on him . The atmosphere in this film is palpable , and the mood consistently dark and menacing . Carpenter and cinematographer Gary Kibbe bathe a lot of their shots in complete darkness , giving everything the quality of a true nightmare , as " reality " and " fiction " inexorably become impossible to distinguish . K . N . B . dish out some excellent surreal makeup and creature effects , although the darkness of the film detracts a little in this sense , as I wish I could have seen a little more . Neill is superb in the leading role , receiving solid support from Carmen , Prochnow , Warner , John Glover , Peter Jason , Bernie Casey , and Frances Bay . Future stars Hayden Christensen and Kevin Zegers can be seen in small roles . Scripter Michael De Luca offers many intriguing ideas and a fresh , strikingly enjoyable premise . A first time viewer like me won't know quite what to expect , which is always a good thing , and the unrelenting bleakness ensures it an edge over more conventional genre fare . " In the Mouth of Madness " is one of the more interesting pictures of its directors ' career , and is a very entertaining genre film as well . I highly recommend it .
My first spaghetti Western .	In one of his most iconic roles , Clint Eastwood is cagey mystery man " The Man with No Name " , a gunslinger who rides into the small frontier town of San Miguel . He learns , shortly , that the town is run by two opposing crime families . The Rojos sell liquor and the Baxters sell guns . The Man promptly figures that he can profit from playing the two families against each other . Director Sergio Leone certainly put a fresh spin on the Western genre back in the mid-60's . I enjoyed the emphasis he put on close-ups , and with the powerful lights he used , even in daytime scenes , one can really see every bead of sweat on the characters ' faces . It definitely adds to the tension . The characters all look grimy enough to match their level of corruption ; even The Man himself is far from being a real stand-up , morally upright hero in the traditional sense . It was great fun to see The Man at work here . He never loses his cool , and even when he's in the process of getting beat up , he remains quiet . He always seems to have another plan up his sleeve ; in one scene he shows us how to get good use out of dead bodies . This was a nice touch of dark humor . The film is stylishly violent with lots of gunfire throughout ; a standout scene definitely has to be a climactic gunfight set against the backdrop of a raging fire . Gian Maria Volonte is a good villain as Ramon , with Joseph Egger as Piripero and Jose Calvo as Silvanito equally enjoyable among the supporting cast . I loved the Ennio Morricone music score . It was so flamboyant , wonderful , and lyrical , with great use of a whistle . " Fistful of Dollars " was fun to watch . I look forward to watching the sequels ( " For a Few Dollars More " and " The Good , the Bad , and the Ugly " ) and other films from its genre .
An effective slasher picture .	Pompous director Jonathan Stryker ( John Vernon ) agrees with the wishes of actress lover Samantha Sherwood ( Samantha Eggar ) to have herself " committed " in order to properly research a role . However , the duplicitous rotter takes the opportunity to have a quintet of attractive young ladies come to his remote house and audition . Soon , a mysterious killer will be reducing these aspiring stars in number . . . This better-than-average effort pays off pretty well . The big names here get excellent showcases : Vernon is believable as a jerk who cares more for himself and his films than anything else , and Eggar is wonderful in all of her scenes . It's a stark , gritty little thriller with some genuinely chilling and suspenseful scenes ; to that end , the final third is the best , with some moody lighting and unrelenting tension , until a final showdown when the killers ' identity is revealed . Other highlights include a stalking / murdering sequence on an icy lake that embedded itself strongly in my memory long before I even knew the title of the film , and a decapitated-head-in-toilet scene that actually works . Gore hounds should be warned beforehand , however , that this is more along the lines of " Halloween " , with very little blood to be seen at all . The film features an appropriately moody and ominous score by the reliable composer Paul Zaza , and the supporting cast is worth noting : lovely and personable Lynne Griffin ( the memorable first victim in the original " Black Christmas " ) is one of the ambitious young ladies , as well as the appealing Lesleh Donaldson of another slasher favorite , " Happy Birthday to Me " , and character veterans Michael Wincott ( " The Crow " ) and Maury Chaykin ( " Dances with Wolves " ) have brief roles . The killers ' get-up is memorable as well ; that old-hag mask is a pretty good one . Although plagued by a number of production problems ( the director ultimately used the name Jonathan Stryker as a pseudonym ) , and a period of shelf sitting before its release to theaters , the film ultimately works . It's easy to follow , and is compulsively watchable , maintaining the feeling of dread throughout . All it needs these days is a DVD release so it can be properly appreciated by a larger audience . I like it and I recommend it .
If I can make more people aware of this film , my job is done .	Overlooked psychological drama / thriller from the 1980's , written-directed by Sandor Stern ( screenwriter of the 1979 version of " The Amityville Horror " ) based on an even more disturbing novel by Andrew Neiderman ( " The Devil's Advocate " ) , in which two siblings - brother Leon and sister Ursula - are raised by an emotionally detached doctor father ( Terry O'Quinn ) and an overbearing , obsessive-compulsive mother ( Bronwen Mantel ) and ultimately take different mental journeys in life . Ursula seems to get all the preferential treatment , while poor Leon seems to get a raw deal every step of the way . Part of the story involves their fathers ' use of an anatomically correct medical dummy - nicknamed " Pin " - and their father uses ventriloquism to make it look like Pin is speaking to them , educating them about the birds and the bees , and other life lessons . Ursula eventually realizes what her father is doing , but Leon never does , living his entire life believing Pin is " real " and constantly going to him for advice . When the parents pass on in a fatal car accident , Leon continues to obsess over Pin - the major facet in what turns out to be a severe mental illness . David Hewlett does a fantastic , very convincing job as the teen aged Leon ( not that the child actors playing him at younger ages do such a bad job themselves ) ; he is convincing every step of the way . In fact , like Richard Franklin's better-than-expected sequel , " Psycho II " , this film dares a viewer to feel empathy for an obviously disturbed individual . Cyndy Preston does a creditable if not as memorable job as Ursula ; she is more than your garden-variety bimbo-in-jeopardy horror movie character , and she won't give up on her brother , because , quite simply , she loves him . Great cameo by O'Quinn , cast in this due to his previous success in " The Stepfather " , filmed in Canada just as this film was . " Pin . . . " is a somber , disquieting , very affecting little movie ( picked up by the faltering New World Pictures in the States in 1988 , but ultimately heading straight to video , receiving actual theatrical release in Canada and overseas ) . Nowadays , it's apparently considered a " cult " item , but it's good enough to warrant more attention . The characters are worth watching , and their situation genuinely compelling . The music and photography are also noteworthy components . At one point , " Scanners " plays on a movie screen ; since Pierre David , the executive producer here , was also a producer on that earlier Cronenberg classic , he was naturally able to get the footage with no problem . Later Hewlett would be the star of " Scanners II " in
Lively , engaging send-up of B movie film-making .	A typical , ambitious young aspiring actress named Candy Hope ( Candice Rialson ) arrives in Hollywood determined to make it big , only to get hooked up with a low-rent studio named Miracle ( as in " If it's a good picture , it's a . . . ) specializing in cheap and sleazy drive-in fare . In short order , she's doing an action film in the Phillippines and a positively goofy sci-fi flick . On the set of the latter , the movie turns into a murder mystery , as the young starlets are being bumped off . . . who could be doing it ? This lovable movie takes such knowing and sly jabs at the travails of low-budget movie-making that it's just a blast . New World is basically poking fun at itself with this little gem , and I love them all the more for it . It's full of hilarious lines , and clever moments , right down to the barrage of in-jokes ( a cameo by Robby the Robot , a fleeting reference to hall-of-infamy howler " Robot Monster " , Dick Miller actually watching himself on screen in the Corman movie " The Terror " , acting opposite Boris Karloff , etc . ) . Arising out of an idea to make the cheapest movie that New World had yet produced , the film-makers ( New World trailer editors Joe Dante and Allan Arkush made their directing debuts here ) hit upon the idea of utilizing as much existing New World footage as they possibly could . So when you see action scenes , special effects , and stunts in this movie , you're seeing stock footage . ( Fans of the early 70's New World canon can have fun identifying all of the clips . ) Rialson makes for a very appealing and fetching lead , although her co-stars often take center stage . Dick Miller and Paul Bartel are indeed the most fun as the shamelessly greasy agent and the pretentious director who treats his schlock epics as if they are genuine works of art . Mary Woronov is the delightfully campy reigning bitch-queen of the studio ; as always , she's well worth watching . The equally delectable Rita George and Tara Strohmeier do fine as the other budding young starlets ( Arkush and Dante never hesitate to give us some prime T & A here ) , with director Jonathan Kaplan amusing as a bumbling crew member , and Jeffrey Kramer ( Deputy Hendricks in the first two " Jaws " movies ) perfectly likable as the in-house screenwriter and love interest . Also highlighted by a romantic interlude punctuated by a musical performance by Commander Cody and the Lost Planet Airmen , the kind of thing that might ordinarily stop a movie cold , but is such a hilariously catchy and raunchy little ditty that I had fun with it . It's a wild and wacky comedy with no pretensions . It is exactly what it is - extremely economically made and cheerfully trashy drive-in movie fun , the kind of thing that always leaves a smile on my face . Another bonus : that theme song really is quite nice ! Easily entertaining enough for me to give it .
A marvelously creepy and ultimately touching horror flick .	Gorgeous Barbara Bach plays Jennifer Fast , a television reporter who travels with her crew ( Karen Lamm and Lois Young ) to Solvang , California , to cover a Danish festival . The problem is that their accommodations have fallen through and all hotels in town are full . So they travel out of town to a remote location and take advantage of the hospitality of the seemingly friendly Ernest Keller ( a phenomenal Sydney Lassick ) . Wouldn't you know it , Ernest and meek partner Virginia ( Lelia Goldoni ) are hiding a big secret in their cellar : pitiable , deformed , diaper-clad " Junior " ( Stephen Furst , in a remarkable performance ) who ultimately terrorizes the girls . A deliciously unhinged Lassick plays the true monster in this disturbing little horror movie . It builds slowly but surely to an intense confrontation / climax , delivering the horror in small doses until the final half hour . The hotel and the foreboding cellar - large echoes of " Psycho " here - are great settings . Most of all , the perverse plot involves incest and patricide , allowing the movie to take on a truly dark quality . And yet it also becomes poignant as we realize Junior is no one-dimensionally evil bogeyman but as much a victim as the girls . The final shot is especially sad . " The Unseen " is a solid little horror flick worthy of discovery .
" War . . . It's Fantastic ! "	This sequel to the first Hot Shots ! movie has a different target this time : mindless , Rambo-style action movies . Topper Harley ( Charlie Sheen ) is now doing odd jobs for some monks in the far east , and is recruited to lead a rescue mission in the Persian Gulf . For some reason , after seeing both this and the first movie on Sunday , I actually enjoyed this one more ( maybe because I haven't seen this one as many times ) . The target is definitely worthy of some lampooning , and the cast is once again a pleasure to watch . Lloyd Bridges is , once again , hilarious as " Tug " Benson , who , despite clearly being something of a moron , managed to get elected President of the United States . Trivia note : Ryan Stiles , who plays " Lewis " on the Drew Carey Show , and is a regular on the improv-comedy series Whose Line Is It Anyway ? plays Rabinowitz in this movie , and he was also in the first movie , playing the ill-fated " Mailman " Farnham . You never know who's going to pop up where . I gave it .
Balances its humor and pathos very well .	Author Joseph Wambaugh and filmmaker Harold Becker re-teamed for this feature after their previous success collaborating on " The Onion Field " . Robert Foxworth is excellent as hard-drinking police sergeant A . M . Valnikov , who gets partnered with Natalie Zimmerman ( the sexy and sassy Paula Prentiss ) , and it's a real clash of personalities at first . Gradually , Natalie finds herself growing more and more attached to Valnikov while they work at solving the case of a dog-napping . This has been perpetrated by " terrier king " Philo Skinner ( the always superb Harry Dean Stanton ) , who shows dogs as well as working in a kennel . " The Black Marble " is a wonderful mix of elements . It's got doses of dark comedy , heavy drama , character study , and is ultimately a highly touching and original take on romance . It's got a great mix of interesting characters ( sometimes with off-the-wall names such as " Hipless " Hooker and " Itchy Mitch " ) , with its principals a genuinely touching and sympathetic bunch of rather lonely souls ( even Philo , as much of a loser as he is ( he's deeply in debt to the Mob ) comes off as pitiful ) . It makes great use of the Russian culture that gives it a certain kind of charm ( the late Maurice Jarre contributes a beautiful score with a strong Russian influence ) . It doesn't lose sight of the fact that some people , such as Natalie herself , would not be about to take a dog-napping case seriously . Some of the humor is definitely worth of chuckles ; a climactic chase may be one of the slowest ever committed to celluloid . Foxworth , Prentiss , and Stanton are very well supported by an eclectic group of under-rated actors . Barbara Babcock as Madeline Whitfield , owner of the kidnapped schnauzer , John Hancock as Valnikov's friend Clarence , Raleigh Bond as the harried captain , Judy Landers as ditzy kennel employee Pattie Mae , Pat Corley as jailbird " Itchy Mitch " , future B action movie star Michael Dudikoff as a houseboy , and Anne Ramsey as a cranky landlady all do well in their scenes . There are also effective cameos for Christopher Lloyd , as a collector for the Mob , and James Woods , as the fiddler whose final scene is quite priceless . ( A fair number of these actors had previously appeared in " The Onion Field " . ) Owen Roizman's Panavision cinematography makes the film quite impressive to look at , with great use of the L . A . locations . " The Black Marble " is a sweetly endearing , overlooked little gem of a movie in which characters can find themselves immersed in despair but manage to pull through by making human connections . Highly recommended .
Another fine fright flick from gore expert Lucio Fulci .	The suicide of a priest named Father Thomas ( Fabrizio Jovine ) is enough to cause the gates to Hell to open in this effective Fulci shocker . Peter Bell ( Christopher George ) , a newspaper reporter , and Mary Woodhouse ( Katriona MacColl ) , a psychic whom Bell saves from a horrible fate , hook up to try to save the world , which they need to do by All Saints Day . Right along the lines of " The Beyond " , generally regarded to be his masterpiece , Fulcis ' " City of the Living Dead " delivers some very impressive set pieces of nasty splatter . Intestines being regurgitated , a head being punctured by a drill , and brains being scooped out rate as definite highlights . The zombies , too , are downright horrifying and repellent and are among the spookiest that I've seen on film . ( The title is a little bit of a misnomer , since there aren't very many zombies in the film , but a little does go a long way here . ) Fulci is also very adept at creating atmosphere in his films . The good and gruesome highlights are delivered at select spots , serving as the punctuation on extended scenes where the director crafts some great , sinister , oppressive tension . " City of the Living Dead " has a marvelously downbeat tone that holds up to an intriguingly bizarre ending . It's potent , unnerving , and very enjoyable . One of my favorite scenes takes place in a coffin underground . It's very well done . The always amiable and solid George and the gorgeous MacColl are ably supported by Carlo De Mejo as another major character ( Gerry ) with whom they'll cross paths , as well as Antonella Interlenghi , Giovanni Lombardo Radice , Venantino Venantini , and future director Michele Soavi . Robert Sampson , who was Dean Halsey in " Re-Animator " a few years later , turns up as the Sheriff here . " City of the Living Dead " is an effective horror flick worth catching for fans of horror in general and the director in particular .
The second John Grisham adaptation of 1993 is a worthy follow-up to " The Firm " .	Based on John Grisham's best-selling novel . Darby Shaw ( Julia Roberts ) is a law student at Tulane who writes her own theory about who arranged for the assassination of two Supreme Court justices and why . The unfortunate thing is , her theory is right on the money , and once it starts circulating it results in a number of deaths . Investigative reporter Gray Grantham ( Denzel Washington ) turns out to be the one person she can trust and rely on . " The Pelican Brief " is a solid and entertaining ( if lengthy ) political / newspaper / legal thriller from the director of " All The President's Men " . It keeps its grip thanks to genuinely good film-making and an excellent cast . The climax is reasonably suspenseful . To screenwriter / director Alan J . Pakula's credit , the villain of the movie - a stereotypically greedy and maniacal tycoon - is deliberately made mysterious and gets no actual screen time - except for an appearance in a key photograph . I've seen a couple of the big-screen Grisham adaptations , and they have all been pretty good . His novels do make for good movie material . I can't decide which one is the best , though . . . that's kind of tough .
Good companion piece to the film " The Entity " .	In this interview / featurette on the Anchor Bay DVD of the 1981 film " The Entity " , real-life parapsychologist Dr . Barry Taff discusses the real-life case that inspired a novel and the subsequent film adaptation . Taff is an engaging subject with plenty of interesting things to say . He talks about his history , and how his own psychic experiences led him to enter the field of parapsychology in university . Other topics include the following of the principle of " Occam's Razor " , which means that " all things being equal , the simplest explanation tends to be the correct one " , and that when he and his colleagues investigate an occurrence , they work through possible rational explanations first . He mentions working with Dr . Thelma Moss and Dr . Kerry Gaynor ; the three of them inspired characters in the film respectively played by Richard Brestoff , Jacqueline Brookes , and Raymond Singer . The majority of his cases ( thousands of them ! ) ultimately wouldn't amount to anything , but there was a small minority of occurrences where things happened that couldn't be easily explained away . The real-life " Entity " story involved a mother of four named Doris Byther , living in a very run-down house and a heavy drinker . However , consumption of alcohol couldn't adequately explain the phenomena that as many as 25 people were witness to . Taff brings up the fact that balls of light even appeared to take on the form of the head and upper torso of a very large man at one point . Supposedly poltergeist-related activity involved objects moving of their own volition . Taff and his colleagues ultimately lost contact with Byther but the case has still gone on record as one of the most memorable cases that they ever worked on . This makes for fascinating viewing for anyone with an open mind .
Enjoyable creature feature with a heavy touch of mysticism .	A savage , lizard-like beast that is tearing the hearts out of its victims is terrorizing a village . The staff at a nearby girls ' school hire hunky hunter Sigurd ( Tony Kendall ) to both guard them and kill the beast . While Sigurd finds himself attracted to the strict and aloof Elke ( Silvia Tortosa ) , he is also drawn to the mysterious beauty ( Helga Line , looking incredibly ravishing ) frequenting the area . Drawing inspiration from a real-life legend , director Amando de Ossorio ( also well known for the " Blind Dead " series ) knows how to keep this film entertaining and visually arresting . While never truly scary , it does have a haunting , fairly atmospheric quality , and does have a little bit of suspense to it . However , what some people may enjoy most about this likable little Euro exploitation horror flick is its non-stop bevy of scantily clad and delectable ladies and some very , very graphic gore . Anton Garcia Abrils ' music is lovely and ethereal at some times , and at others funky , jazzy , and upbeat , striking an unusual but interesting balance . Miguel Fernandez Milas ' cinematography is also quite impressive . The underwater lair is a nice bit of art direction . The monster itself is a fairly cheesy but undeniably ugly man-in-costume creation , but it never detracts too much from the overall appeal of the film , which has a very affecting , poetic sort of ending that I myself appreciated . It's an entertaining fright flick with enough going for it for me to give it a hearty recommendation .
" Forget the cat , you hemorrhoid ! Get the gun ! "	" Cat's Eye " is a Stephen King-scripted , three-part anthology in which an endearing gray tabby ( actually played by about a dozen different cats ) plays a central part . King based the first two parts on two of his published short stories ( both appear in the " Night Shift " Collection ) and fashioned the third part as a vehicle for Drew Barrymore at the request of film producer Dino De Laurentiis . " Quitters , Inc . " is about smoking addict Dick Morrison ( the always entertaining James Woods ) , who goes to the titular agency in an attempt to kick the habit . However , what he isn't told is that this Mafia-funded agency employs radical and sadistic methods that more or less force the smoker to give up his or her cigarettes . . . OR ELSE . " The Ledge " is about aging tennis bum Johnny Norris ( " Airplane ! " ' s Robert Hays ) whose tryst with the wife of prominent hood and gambler Cressner ( Kenneth McMillan ) is discovered . Instead of merely doing away with Norris , Cressner promises the guy that he can have anything he wants providing he accepts the wager that he can't navigate the narrow ledge surrounding Cressner's 30th floor apartment building . " The General " , in which the cat plays the biggest part , is about Amanda ( Barrymore ) , an eight-year-old who is menaced nightly by a deadly , tiny troll that lives in her walls and is intent on " stealing her breath " . It's up to the cat to save her life . Directed with some style by Lewis Teague ( who was at the helm of the 1983 adaptation of King's " Cujo " ) and imbued with a good sense of humor , " Cat's Eye " is at times silly , suspenseful , harrowing , and whimsical . I liked Alan Silvestri's music score ( whenever it peaks , it bears the slightest resemblance to his score for " Back to the Future " ) , the little troll creation ( he has an impressively expressive face ) by Carlo Rambaldi , the over-sized sets created for the last story in order to make the troll appear tiny , and the talented cast . Be on the lookout for such future character stars as James Rebhorn ( whose appearance in " Quitters , Inc . " is really funny ) , Mike Starr , and Charles S . Dutton . " Cat's Eye " is never less than entertaining , a better-than-usual King-based film . A prologue was filmed that intended to make it more obvious that the cat in this movie was on a mission . It was ultimately deemed too over-the-top and rejected by the studio . Worth checking out . I even liked the little feline , and that's saying something , since I'm usually more of a dog person . Admittedly , we sure don't see a lot of films featuring a cat as a hero . King would then go on to write " Sleepwalkers " years later , another film to prominently feature cats . Many King references abound : in the first few minutes , the cat runs into both Cujo ( played by one of the actual dogs that was used in the film version of that story ) and Christine . Later , Woods is watching " The Dead Zone " on television and proclaims " Who writes this crap , anyway ? " Then , in the final segment , Sally Ann ( Candy Clark ) is seen reading " Pet Sematary " in bed .
A moody , creepy , highly unnerving portrait of dementia and its lingering after-effects .	Dorothy Yates ( Sheila Keith ) is an unhinged madwoman who suffers from " pathological cannibalism " ; husband Edmund ( the always wonderful Rupert Davies ) is so devoted to her that he'll do anything for her , no matter how much it gnaws at his conscience . 17 years after their incarceration in an asylum , they are released , supposedly now sane , but since this is a horror film , odds are that they haven't been cured in the slightest . In record time , Dorothy reverts back to her old ways , as Edmund continues covering for her . Daughter Jackie ( Deborah Fairfax ) tries to shield teen-aged sister Debbie ( Kim Butcher ) from the knowledge of their parents ' activities , but it seems as if blood lust and insanity run in the family . . . Director Pete Walker ( also co-writer and producer ) serves up a bone-chilling offering of positively gut-wrenching , shocking horror both psychological and visceral . In addition to a hearty helping of gore , he drenches this film in sinister ambiance . The picture gets off to a grim start right away , as a black-and-white flashback / pre-credits sequence shows the aftermath of one kill , and the subsequent sentencing of Dorothy and Edmund . The acting is quite convincing in this one ; Sheila Keith truly does look the part of a madwoman . Unfortunately , there is no pulling the wool over this ladys ' eyes ; she's quick to figure out when she's being lied to . Fairfax successfully conveys the frustration of a basically well-adjusted individual trying to deal with her parents the best way that she knows how . Paul Greenwood is her potential love interest , a psychiatrist whose good intentions lead to his downfall . And Butcher is an ominous picture of a compulsively rebellious brat whose true nature is frightening once revealed . Stanley Myers's music score and Peter Jessops ' cinematography are major assets as well in this nasty and grim outing with a particularly heart-rending conclusion .
What's in the cellar ? ! ?	Very , very low-key drama / mystery in which a very poised and believable young Jodie Foster plays Rynn , who seems to live all alone in a nice home in a peaceful little town . In addition to fending off the advances of her disgusting neighbor Frank Hallet ( Martin Sheen ) she has to go about keeping a very big secret . This is a well acted and well told story , with decent twists and turns . It's watchable throughout . The intriguing little plot was concocted by Laird Koenig , first as a novel , then adapted by Koenig for the screen . What impressed me was that even when the revelation is made ( sooner than I expected , actually ) , there's still no need to show the audience anything . The dialog is good enough to tell us all we need to know . The music is by Christian Gaubert , and a composition by Frederic Chopin is prominently featured . It's all very good , and is supervised by co-star Mort Shuman , who plays the friendly policeman Mr . Miglioritti . In addition to its mystery , the whole idea of Rynn struggling to live a life of complete self-reliance but realizing that it is important to be with people that care about you is very well realized . It's a nice little story with a memorable denouement . It definitely does deserve to be better known .
The solid second entry in Roger Cormans ' Edgar Allan Poe cycle .	Francis Barnard ( John Kerr ) arrives at the castle dwelling of Nicholas ( Vincent Price ) and Catherine Medina ( Luana Anders ) after his sister - who was Nicholas's wife - passes away under bizarre circumstances . Francis is coldly determined to get to the bottom of things , although Nicholas is suffering from an increasingly fragile state of mind due to overwhelming feelings of guilt over the death . Compounding matters is the fact that Nicholas and Catherine are the children of the deceased Sebastian Medina ( Price again ) , a vile and sadistic inquisitor whose vast torture chamber is located right in the basement . The centerpiece of the macabre collection is the iconic pendulum , which proves to be a memorable contraption indeed . Scripted by Richard Matheson , this typically stylish and intelligent fright feature basically uses the Poe story for its last act ; approximately two thirds of it is original material inspired by Poes ' writings . And the story is definitely an interesting one . It works well due to the ability to sympathize with the pitiable Nicholas , although the final twenty minutes provides a nifty revelation and twisted turn of events . The final sequences with the pendulum itself are positively nerve-wracking . Price as usual delivers a marvel of a performance ; even if his acting can at times slide into hamminess , there's still something quite enjoyable about watching him investing himself so strongly in a role . The striking and appealing Anders holds her ground admirably ; Antony Carbone likewise impresses as the concerned Dr . Leon . The weak link is clearly John Kerr ; his stiff and inept ' acting ' detracts too much from the presentation . No description of the cast would be complete without some words of praise for the ever-beautiful Barbara Steele , whose part would seem to be lamentably small - at first . As with other films in this series , " Pit and the Pendulum " looks excellent . Corman gets as much of the well designed sets into the Panavision frame as he can , and the overall effect is appreciable . The flashback scenes are also visually arresting . It's a classy and entertaining old-style horror flick , the kind which unfortunately we just don't see much of anymore .
An enjoyably nasty and macabre collection of terror tales .	Back in the 60's and 70's , a company called Amicus delivered a string of noteworthy anthology horror films . This five story collection is adapted from tales first told in the E . C . horror comics of the 1950's , and it's a good and ghoulish cinematic adaptation . An excellent British cast brings this movie to life , as well as sterling , stylish photography by Norman Warwick and fun music by Douglas Gamley ; film also makes good use of Bachs ' Toccata and Fugue in D Minor . The stories are all told in tight and trim running times , resulting in approximately an hour and a half of horror . As a group is taking a tour of some catacombs , five get separated from the main group and end up imprisoned in a room with a strange gentleman - none other than the Crypt Keeper ( Sir Ralph Richardson ) . ( Yes , back in the early 70's the role was played by a person and wasn't a puppet . ) The sinister Keeper informs the puzzled quintet why they are there by presenting them with the five tales . " And All Through the House " . Joan Collins portrays a murderous wife , after her husbands ' insurance policy , who knocks him off on Christmas Eve while a psychopath dressed as Santa Claus is on the loose . This story would later be adapted again as the very first episode of the 1989 - 1996 TV series . Not a bad way to kick off the movie . The combination of graphic mayhem with the sounds of a choir singing Christmas carols works well , and the gorgeous Collins is compulsively watchable here . " Reflection of Death " . Adulterous Carl Maitland ( Ian Hendry ) is about to leave his whole family for the other woman , but ends up in a horrific car accident . He walks away only to find out that things are not as they seem . The camera takes up his point of view , a nice touch in a story with a cyclical quality . " Poetic Justice " . Snot nosed , ruthless developer James Elliott ( Robin Phillips ) intensely dislikes neighbor Arthur Grimsdyke ( a truly wonderful Peter Cushing ) , and enacts several schemes to drive the poor old man away . The last one has a tragic consequence for Grimsdyke . . . and an equally tragic one for Elliott . Phillips is a great villain and this portion of the picture is not only enjoyably morbid but rather affecting as well . " Wish You Were Here " . In this variation on the story of " The Monkey's Paw " ( which is actually mentioned on screen ) , ruthless businessman Ralph Jason ( Richard Greene ) ends up forced to declare bankruptcy . As he is forced to ponder selling his belongings to pay off his debts , he and his wife realize that one of their statues bears an inscription seemingly entitling them to three wishes . In short order , wish one brings about instant wealth , and wish two brings Ralph back to life after he perishes in a car crash . However , wife Enid ( Barbara Murray ) , for her third wish , hopes to have him live forever , but he is in unbearable agony - now for eternity - because he is suffering the effects of the embalming . She tries to end his suffering , but it only makes things worse . Some good moments and nice sequences in this story with a cheerfully sadistic , nasty conclusion . " Blind Alleys " . The new head of a hospital for the blind , Major Rogers ( Nigel Patrick ) seems to care not at all for his patients , forsaking all of their comfort for his own gratification . But prominent patient Mr . Carter ( Patrick Magee ) has plans for revenge , involving razor blades and Rogers's own dog . This segment is as nicely twisted and memorably gruesome as the fourth entry , and is a satisfactory way of ending the picture . Then the whole movie is wrapped up when the Keeper informs his five guests of their ultimate fate . A grand old time for horror fans , this film is graphic enough to keep more squeamish viewers at bay , but the cast makes it a must see and the highly capable veteran director and cinematographer Freddie Francis once again shows an assured facility for the genre . The picture has no dull moments , and moves steadily and surely towards its dark conclusion . This was a pleasure for me to watch .
Fun to watch and informative .	This entertaining documentary on the making of " The Texas Chain Saw Massacre 2 " covers all the bases . It's divided into six parts , detailing 1 ) the development of the script , 2 ) the look of the film , 3 ) the casting , 4 ) the makeup effects , 5 ) a tribute to series creator Tobe Hooper , and 6 ) final thoughts on the making of the film . Interviewees include cast members Caroline Williams , Bill Moseley , Lou Perryman , and Bill Johnson , production designer Cary White , cinematographer Richard Kooris , screenwriter L . M . Kit Carson , and property master Michael Sullivan . Each participant is engaging and shares neat anecdotes on theirs and others ' contributions to the film . Conspicuously absent is director Tobe Hooper , although that's made up in part by the fifth segment . Hooper does , however , contribute to a commentary on the special edition DVD containing this documentary . Interesting tidbits of information reveal the script dilemma ( Carson had to keep re-writing it as the filming went on ) , the pressures of working under a budget that was slashed by a million dollars early on , Hoopers ' amusing predilection for Dr . Pepper , and the like . There's plenty of behind-the-scenes footage as well as footage of the participants at various conventions to enjoy . Particularly endearing were the heartfelt reminiscences for co-star Jim Siedow ( " The Cook " ) , a true Texas character and spirited , easygoing soul who sadly passed on in 2003 . While I have to admit that it took time for me to embrace this film in addition to the many other people who were disappointed in the change of tone , I've come to appreciate the dark and outrageous humor more and I thought that this documentary was a fitting retrospective to a film that is now considered the cult favorite of the series . If you like " Chainsaw 2 " , you will most likely enjoy this as well .
A fine film of its kind .	Reluctant traveling companions George ( Ray Lovelock ) and Edna ( Christine Galbo ) get caught up in a proliferation of recently deceased folks rising to stalk the living . It would seem that a revolutionary new agricultural machine using radiation to eliminate insect pests is responsible . The local police inspector ( Arthur Kennedy ) , an exceptionally grumpy and cynical type , refuses to believe them and , going on Georges ' hippie-ish appearance alone , is more inclined to believe that George and Edna are responsible . While Jorge Graus ' " Let Sleeping Corpses Lie " ( also known by numerous other titles ) doesn't pile on zombie carnage , it's what the director does with the atmosphere that matters . A stark , moody , ominous mood is established almost from the get-go , with the overcast skies of Britain ( where the story is set ) helping immensely in this regard . It's a nicely creepy story with lots of sequences shot in almost complete darkness , and such hair-raising moments as an attempted escape from a tomb . Released just a few years after George Romeros ' original zombie classic , " Night of the Living Dead " , this film does up the ante in terms of on-screen violence . There's a fair bit of blood spurting and gut munching to enjoy here for fans of gore . The dismemberment of the hospital receptionist is particularly juicy . The picture moves at a fairly deliberate pace , slowly setting up what proves to be a magnificent finale indeed , and a highly enjoyable " last minute surprise " type ending . Lovelock and the stunning Galbo are engaging leads , with Kennedy turning in a solid performance as the hostile Inspector and Fernando Hilbeck , with his distinctive mug , doing a nice turn as the most prominent zombie of the picture . A chilling little Spanish-Italian co-production with a nice British feel to it , " Let Sleeping Corpses Lie " delivers its shocks and scares with skill and conviction . It's a good little zombie gem that merits attention and admiration .
A sequel that I actually enjoyed more than the original .	Ten years after the events of the first movie , Rick ( Brendan Fraser ) , his wife Evie ( Rachel Weisz ) , and their son , Alex ( Freddie Boath ) are busy busting into old tombs , and risking life and limb . . . you know , the usual . Unbeknownst to them , Im-Ho-Tep ( Arnold Vosloo , also returning ) has been resurrected once again , and this time he wants to raise an entire army of monsters from the dead . A second villain has been added to the mix this time : The Scorpion King ( WWE superstar The Rock ) . A very long adventure movie that admittedly feels padded out . I would agree that the film-makers seemed determined to outdo the original film and throw everything at the audience that they could think of . But , what the heck ? It's a lot of fun if you're in the mood for it . ( Although I would hope that Rick and Evie have learned their lessons by now . ) I give it .
I thought that this film was pretty funny .	90's film version of a classic sitcom that went through a couple of name changes : " You'll Never Get Rich , " then " The Phil Silvers Show " , then , for syndication , " Sgt . Bilko . " The premise is that Master Sergeant Ernie Bilko ( Steve Martin ) is a master con artist and professional goof-off who runs his Army platoon his own way , while his supervising officer ( Dan Aykroyd ) mostly looks the other way . Trouble brews when Bilko's old nemesis , the stiff and humorless Col . Thorn ( Phil Hartman ) , arrives at the base . In my own opinion , I thought that this was an energetic , upbeat , and sometimes genuinely funny comedy with a pretty good cast . Martin , as always , is superb , and it was amusing to see the late , great Phil Hartman in the " straight man " villainous role . Also worth noting : Glenne Headly is appealing as Bilko's terminally frustrated , would-be bride . Lively enough , and paced well enough , to sustain a running time that thankfully isn't longer than necessary . Not all vintage TV series have survived the transition to recent feature film ( I've read particularly negative reviews for " The Mod Squad " ) but this one improves on the odds a bit .
Fun , exciting artifact from the 1970's drive-in era .	Combination of paranoia-fueled horror movie and pumped-up car chase action film in which two vacationing couples end up being pursued by Satan worshiping witches after witnessing a sacrifice . The engaging team of Peter Fonda and Warren Oates - re-united after two previous projects together , " The Hired Hand " and " 92 in the Shade " , are two likable protagonists who are easy to root for . Their real life friendship is apparent in the chemistry they show on screen . Loretta Swit and Lara Parker play the wives , and while I like them too , their characters ultimately don't have too much to do . Actor / director Jack Starrett , brought in to replace the original director on short notice , proved to be up to the task , crafting a swift-moving movie with genuinely tense moments , a mounting sense of dread , and , most important of all , a slam-bang finale featuring some incredibly well executed vehicle stunts . Other highlights include a race to get the RV unstuck before the witches can catch up and a showdown with two rattlers . Keep an eye out for Paul A . Partain of the original " Texas Chain Saw Massacre " , who has a small role early in the film . Director Starrett appears late in the film as a gas station attendant . The always welcome R . G . Armstrong plays the sheriff , and co-writer / producer Wes Bishop plays Deputy Dave . Other worthy components include Leonard Rosenman's music score , and one heck of a distinctive looking tree to become a visual landmark in the film . Very profitable back in its day , it actually holds up very well when viewed now . It's worthy of discovery / re-discovery for any lover of B movies , and any fan of the two stars .
" Don't you want to be a member of the clean plate club ? "	Wacky , creepy backwoods horror in which Cynthia ( Sarah Torgov ) is released from a mental hospital after losing her baby has caused her to have a breakdown . Husband Jeff ( Mark Ericksen ) decides to take her and four of their friends on an island trip by plane . However , plane troubles force them to land at the wrong island . This island is dominated by a very weird family , presided over by deeply religious patriarch Pa ( Rod Steiger ) and hospitable Ma ( Yvonne De Carlo ) , who treat their middle-aged children ( Woody ( Michael J . Pollard ) , Teddy ( William Hootkins ) , and Fannie ( Janet Wright ) ) as if they truly are still children . " American Gothic " has a truly warped and disturbing vibe going for it . Pa and Ma take family values to the extreme and are completely out-of-touch , living their lives as if it's still the 1920's . Just wait until you see Fannie's " baby " ; this is far and away one of the most disturbing plot details that the film has going for it . Pollard , Hootkins , and Wright play their parts to the hilt . The woodsy atmosphere of the island is well established , and it becomes clear that the young victims are truly at the mercy of their " hosts " ; escape is well nigh impossible . In a clever twist , Cynthia's mental condition leads to a final twenty minutes that are rather clever considering the more formulaic aspects of the previous seventy . If there's one problem here , it's that the young adults are for the most part not likable or sympathetic . And they're also very well out-acted by their antagonists . ( Steiger fans can note that he plays his part very straight but at the end really lets it rip . ) But the film does add up to a refreshing combination of satire , slasher fare , and " Texas Chain Saw Massacre " style backwoods horror . It's also nice to see a horror film that is so prominently character driven . Alan Parker's score is mostly very effective despite getting off to an odd start with the goofy opening titles score ; Harvey Harrison's cinematography creates some absolutely gorgeous shots . The film-makers make great use of the location ; " American Gothic " was a Canadian-British co-production and shot on location on Bowen Island , British Columbia . Worth a look for aficionados of rural horror flicks .
" One Hour Photo " is a very good film !	Seymour " Sy " Parrish ( Robin Williams ) is a pathetically lonely guy , a photo shop employee at a Sav Mart whose job seems to be his basic reason for living . He obsesses over one set of customers , the Yorkin family ( Connie Nielsen , Michael Vartan , Dylan Smith ) whom he thinks of as a perfect family and he even imagines himself as one of their kin . Things go from creepy to outright dangerous when Sy's boss discovers his litany of transgressions and fires him , sending Sy over the edge . " One Hour Photo " is a refreshingly subtle and genuinely creepy drama / thriller that does not subscribe to any thriller formulas . Writer / director Mark Romanek has fashioned a movie that got under my skin and generated real uneasiness as I waited for Sy to lose it . The movie also features a shocking nightmare sequence sure to get your attention ( it actually seems more appropriate for a horror film , yet doesn't hurt the overall impact of the film ) . Best of all is William's restrained and efficient performance , which anchors the film . Supporting cast is fine , too . All in all , it's nice to see a good film like this come out of Hollywood every once in a while . One more word about Williams : I do tend to get tired of his comic persona , and find that he delivers his best actual performances when he's required to get serious . This is definitely one of the better things that he's done .
Tons of one-liners in near-perfect " brainless entertainment " .	AH-NULD plays a former soldier of fortune named John Matrix who now lives an idyllic life in a California forest with young daughter Jenny ( Alyssa Milano ) . Soon after the movie begins , Jenny is kidnapped by thugs representing a dictator ( Dan Hedaya ) ; the dictator wants Matrix to assassinate a politician and will kill Jenny if he doesn't . No prizes for guessing that Matrix slips from their clutches ; with the help of feisty stewardess Cindy ( Rae Dawn Chong ) he sets out on a corpse-riddled rescue mission . Extremely stupid and unrealistic , yet IT IS SO DARN FUNNY . It's slick and energetic and lively and how can an action fan NOT be amused by such an irreverent and violent AH-NULD vehicle ? His supporting cast is all fantastic , especially the villains ( " Bennett " , played by Aussie Vernon Wells , is hilariously campy ) . And like I already said , the movie has a steady flow of quotable one-liners , most of them AH-NULD's . The movie is so funny it actually has an advantage over the thematically similar " Rambo : First Blood Part II " , released the same year ( RFPII actually took itself seriously ) . My favorite line - the last one - when Matrix defeats Bennett - it's all the more funnier because AH-NULD says it with a straight face . The opening credits feature a cornily " cute " montage involving Matrix and Jenny - but the film makes up for it soon enough .
I like it ! Cushing and Lee at their finest .	Jonathan Harker ( John Van Eyssen ) goes to Count Dracula's ( Christopher Lee ) castle under the guise of being his librarian , but is really there to destroy the Count . When he becomes a victim , his smooth and efficient colleague Dr . Van Helsing ( Peter Cushing ) arrives on the scene and proceeds to go after the blood-sucker himself . Good-looking ( with nice sets and nice photography ) , this in-color adaptation of Bram Stoker's legendary novel tells the story somewhat differently , but it is entertaining . It's one of those horror films that , while failing to really scare me , is a fine piece of work nonetheless . Cushing and Lee excel as the two adversaries . I don't think that there's much I can say about this except that it's a great choice for fans of the Gothic horror that Britain's Hammer Studios served up for many years . I would recommend that you see it sometime .
It's not what it looks like , Dad !	Some folks might consider this " Porky's " for the nineties : four teen-aged guys , who seem to think about little else besides sex , make a pact to lose their virginity on prom night . While the main drawing card of this movie seems to be the assortment of raunchy gags ( and I'll admit they do make me laugh ) what really helps it is the likability and earnestness of the cast . You can't help but sympathize ( maybe even identify ) with these people . Plus , you can't go wrong with casting funny man Eugene Levy as Jim's dad ; the old man teaches Jim about masturbation and skin mags and these scenes are priceless . I'll say it : I like this movie , I'm not ashamed to say it , and I don't consider myself a moron for enjoying it . Interesting aside , though : I read that Spike Lee was so disgusted by this film that it motivated him to make his film " The Original Kings of Comedy " . To each his own , I say , and I give it .
Pretty good as B movies go .	The crashing of an alien spaceship in a forest results in enormous mosquitoes after the tiny blood suckers feast on the alien corpses . After the deadly creatures lay waste to a multitude of locals , a disparate group of survivors hooks up , realizing that they will have to take care of the problem themselves . Director Gary Jones and crew aren't exactly out to re-invent the wheel here . They're just delivering a humorous and low , low budget 90's spin on the giant insect classics of the 50's , and clearly having fun doing it . It delivers some welcome in-jokes , with the most noteworthy coming as Gunnar Hansen - none other than Leatherface of " Texas Chain Saw Massacre " fame - hefts a chain saw and proclaims " I haven't held one of these for 20 years . Feels good . " There are even shades of " Night of the Living Dead " and " Alien " , which made it especially fun for a genre fan like me . The pacing was very effective ; the movie does not waste time and keeps the tension going once it kicks into gear . The attack scenes are particularly , enjoyably brutal , as the mosquitoes jab their proboscis into eyeballs and posteriors . The special effects are agreeable enough - both the mosquitoes themselves and their desiccated victims . The engaging no-name cast fills out their roles well , and the movie in general is straightforward , unpretentious genre fare made with a certain amount of zeal . I had a good time watching it .
Not only my first silent film , but my first Lon Chaney experience as well .	The legendary performer plays Alonzo , whose act in a gypsy circus involves throwing knives - no mean feat , since he happens to be armless . He longs to be with his gorgeous young colleague , Nanon ( a very young Joan Crawford ) , and because she is turned off by the thought of male hands on her body , he poses no problem for her . Alonzo , however , is harboring more than one secret , and will not take kindly to being denied a romantic union with Nanon . Truly a strange and intriguing little picture , " The Unknown " showcases the stars to good effect . Chaney commits very strongly to the character and is no less than believable . The way in which the film-makers , led by the great director Tod Browning , convince you of his handicap ( as well as immersing you in a lurid and potent atmosphere ) is quite impressive . Norman Kerry , who'd acted with Chaney in " The Hunchback of Notre Dame " and " The Phantom of the Opera " , is engaging as the equally lovesick strongman Malabar , Crawford has a good presence on screen , and John George is solid as Cojo , a sidekick to Alonzo . The film packs some memorable moments into its very brief ( 50 minutes ) running time . Highlights include a sequence with Alonzo blackmailing a surgeon into operating on him , as well as a striking , violent conclusion . The makeup effects are excellent ; the extra thumb that Alonzo has is quite convincing . Overall , the film is powerful , and touching as well as creepy . It served as a good introduction for me to the talents of the director , cast , and the silent film format . I look forward to watching more films of this type in the future .
Bloody brilliant werewolf horror .	A platoon of soldiers on a training exercise in the Scottish highlands are in for the fight of their lives when a pack of bloodthirsty werewolves stalk and attack them . They end up trapped inside a remote farmhouse ( making this an amusing variation on " Night of the Living Dead " , only with werewolves instead of zombies ) while waiting for dawn . " Dog Soldiers " is thoroughly invigorating werewolf horror . It marked the effective break-though film for film-maker Neil Marshall , also the writer and editor . It's very pumped - up , visceral and , intense , hurtling along at a breakneck pace . It's got an excellent jolt or two ( Sgt . Wells's ( Sean Pertwee's ) riveting monologue about a fallen comrade is broken up by the unexpected appearance of a slaughtered cow ) and , while never really that scary , still gets a lot of atmosphere out of its environment ( it was filmed in Luxembourg as well as Scotland ) and is quite exciting . The werewolves themselves are quite formidable and there's a lot of well-done graphic violence . Best of all , it really puts a great British spin on the genre , with plenty of amusing dialog , some priceless dark humor , and a number of references to past horror hits . The cast is a great deal of fun ; they each have a good deal of presence . Pertwee is superb in the lead , with fine support from Kevin McKidd , Emma Cleasby , Thomas Lockyer , Chris Robson , and Leslie Simpson . Liam Cunningham is enjoyably hateful as Capt . Ryan , with Darren Morfitt a real scene-stealer in the role of ' Spoon ' . " Dog Soldiers " is a fine addition to the werewolf genre . It's a real blast from beginning to end .
Wonderful compilation of vintage exploitation trailers .	The fine folks at the DVD company Synapse do an impressive job with this collection of almost 50 theatrical trailers . They are grouped by category , an aspect that I myself enjoyed . I liked the idea of getting a sampling of several features from each respective category . They range from martial arts epics to horror pictures ( especially entries from the " nature strikes back " sub-genre ) to lowbrow sex comedies to raunchy exploitation titles to action flicks . These trailers , more often than not , do a superb job of really selling the movies . As a result , there are some features here ( " Enter the Ninja " , " Lies " , " Telefon " , " King Frat " , " Summer School Teachers " , and " The Stranger and the Gunfighter " , for example ) that I now want to see very much . It's particularly gratifying to see trailers for such features as " Phase IV " and " Bug " when the companies that released those DVDs neglected to include them as a bonus feature . The trailers are very much restricted to the 1970's and 1980's , with " The Penthouse " , from the 1960's , as an exception . For a movie lover such as myself who is more likely to gravitate towards exploitation flicks from decades past rather than those produced nowadays , this is a real joy to watch . All you need is your bag of popcorn and you're all set .
I really liked this one .	Football great Jim Brown makes for an entertaining tough guy hero in this blaxploitation entry from director Jack Starrett . Slaughter ( Brown ) goes about seeking revenge after a car bomb kills his parents ; however , his actions lead to the botching of a federal sting . Federal agent A . W . Price ( Cameron Mitchell in a good cameo ) offers him a deal wherein Slaughter will travel to South America to take on the mob . Much like his peer Fred Williamson , Brown projects a fine sense of bad-a cool . He's always in control , and of course believable in action and fight scenes . He's well supported by the gorgeous Stella Stevens , as the moll whom he romances ( Stevens also gets the chance to show off that delectable body of hers ) and a typically solid Rip Torn as the ruthless , racist mob thug in his way . Marlene Clark is sexy and enjoyable as a meddlesome agent , while Don Gordon has some great scenes as Slaughters ' bumbling partner . " Slaughter " is a decent mix of sex and violence , with particularly well-done action scenes . It also has just the right amount of comedy . Highlighted by a funky music score and Billy Prestons ' downright awesome theme song , " Slaughter " delivers solid blaxploitation goods .
Ideal vehicle for the late , great Lee Marvin .	Lee Marvin is the cold-as-ice Walker , living only for one thing : to get back his fair share of a heist pulled years earlier . Receiving assistance from a stranger named Yost ( Keenan Wynn ) , he takes on the Organization that his traitorous " friend " Mal Reese ( John Vernon ) has joined . " Point Blank " , based on a novel by Donald E . Westlake ( using the pseudonym Richard Stark ) is an impressive thriller from director John Boorman , pre - " Deliverance " . It's both tough & brutal as well as bleak and haunting . Boorman makes great use of montage and flashbacks , as the film switches between moments in the past and present . His stylish thriller is well shot , edited , scored , and paced , with great use of its San Francisco locations . It creates a seedy world full of characters who if not blatantly dubious are still morally compromised in one way or another . It's a stirring tale of the " no honor among thieves " variety that cannily combines art , grit , and atmosphere , right up to an effectively ambiguous ending . Marvin's Walker is one of his best ever parts ; he perfectly inhabits this character who seems just so dead inside . Angie Dickinson , as sexy as she's ever been , is the sister of his wife who gives him some assistance . Wynn is fantastic as the character whose motivations don't become clear until the end ( this revelation is pulled off well ) . Vernon is excellent as the sneaky and self-serving Mal . Lovely Sharon Acker makes the most of her brief screen time as Walker's repentant wife . Carroll O'Connor , Michael Strong , and Lloyd Bochner all play a great bunch of slimy villains . And turning up in bit parts are actors such as James B . Sikking , Kathleen Freeman , and Sid Haig . One of the more striking films of its decade , " Point Blank " is a crime thriller worth catching . The novel was filmed again as the 1999 Mel Gibson vehicle " Payback " .
A good entry in the " disaster movie " genre .	The ever authoritative Charlton Heston is Henry O'Hara , pilot of a commercial airliner , who receives an unwelcome surprise on his latest flight . One of the passengers is demanding that their destination be rerouted from Minneapolis-St . Paul to Anchorage . It turns out to be Vietnam vet Jerome Weber ( James Brolin ) , who grows more and more unstable as the flight goes on . Released during the early years of the " disaster movie " boom of the 1970's , " Skyjacked " is based on a novel by David Harper . It's very watchable throughout , with director John Guillermin ( who went on to do " The Towering Inferno " with Irwin Allen ) creating a good amount of ever-increasing tension . Especially effective is the sequence where Heston is guided through a heavy storm by Claude Akins . Even if melodramatic at times , it always does a good job of getting right back to the business at hand . The cast plays the material for all it's worth . The expectantly broad range of characters includes a middle-aged couple ( gorgeous flame-haired Jeanne Crain and Ross Elliott ) , a sexy young hippie chick ( the appealing Susan Dey ) , a senator ( Walter Pidgeon ) and his son ( Nicholas Hammond ) , a genial cellist ( the engaging Roosevelt Grier ) , a pregnant young woman ( a lovely Mariette Hartley ) , and the stewardesses ( including Yvette Mimieux and Leslie Uggams ) and co-pilot Mike Henry . This solid ensemble helps to give the film a certain credibility . Although the mood does get very intense at times , a key to its effectiveness is that even though the threat that Brolin presents is very real , he's not entirely unsympathetic . And Heston anchors the whole thing very well with his cool , no-nonsense demeanor . O'Hara is the kind of low-key hero whose reliability is evident right from the start . Personally , I thought it was enjoyably sincere stuff , with just the right amount of suspense and excitement to keep it entertaining .
" Movies Don't Create Psychos . . . They Just Make Them More Creative . "	Successful lampooning of formula-based slasher movies stars Neve Campbell as Sidney Prescott , a traumatized teenager whose mother was slaughtered one year ago . Then , almost one year to the day after , her classmates are systematically ( and brutally ) murdered by a costumed lunatic who likes to taunt his victims over the phone and play slasher-movie trivia . I think the main hook of this movie is its willingness to show how ridiculous the cliches of the slasher movie are : Have Sex , You Die . Do Drugs Or Booze , You Die . Go Off On Your Own To Investigate A Strange Noise . . . You Die . Having a sense of humor ( especially a satirical one ) definitely helps this movie . It's also reasonably suspensful and well-crafted , with a troupe of attractive , Generation-Y actors as the principal characters ( is is just me , or does anybody else find Matthew Lillard's character Stu Macher REALLY annoying ? ) . Also noteworthy are two uncredited cameos by . . . hey , I'd better not give that away . Giant in-joke has director Wes Craven himself in a cameo role ( you have to see it to believe it ) . Some die-hard horror buffs may want to dismiss this as being lightweight , pop-culture fluff . It's up to you to decide how to take it . I give it .
Good fun .	The introduction of Nigel Kneales ' Prof . Quatermass character to the screen results in this well done sci-fi / horror entry in which a spaceship returns to Earth with only one survivor out of three astronauts . Victor Carroon ( Richard Wordsworth ) , the only one left , is clearly not all right , however . Infested by an alien being , he's slowly mutating into a monster with quick reproductive capabilities . Prof . Quatermass ( Brian Donlevy ) must work with the London police to track him down when he escapes . It's very well directed by Val Guest , the man behind other genre fare such as " The Abominable Snowman " and " The Day the Earth Caught Fire " . It's rather imaginative in terms of its alien menace , and is full of tension . It hits the ground running and unfolds at a consistent pace , and maintains a genuinely creepy feeling , helped in no small part by the incredible performance of Wordsworth . The makeup effects are effective as well . A smart , efficient script and solid performances are major assets . Donlevy and Jack Warner work well together as the heroes with differing viewpoints and ways of doing things . David King-Wood and Harold Lang are excellent in supporting roles and Thora Hird has a comedic , scene-stealing role late in the picture . Both intelligent and fun at the same time , " The Quatermass Xperiment " emerges as a superb entry in the sci-fi / horror boom of the 1950's . It would lead to further cinematic Quatermass adventures that are also well worth checking out .
I like " Trancers " !	Jack Deth ( Tim Thomerson ) is a cop - referred to as a " trooper " - in the 23rd century who goes back in time ( to 1985 Los Angeles ) to inhabit the body of his ancestor in order to stop a power-hungry maniac , who's ALSO gone back in time in order to wipe out the ancestors of the 23rd century leaders . Short ( only one hour and seventeen minutes ! ) and sweet cult sci-fi hit ( that to date has spawned five sequels ) is incredibly well-paced ( it really moves ! ) , rather amusing , and is actually pretty fun . Thomerson - now a veteran of many horror and sci-fi B-movies - is well cast in the lead and Helen Hunt , in one of her earlier roles , is appealing as his love interest . Michael Stefani is chillingly intense as Whistler , the movie's villain . The supporting cast includes a few familiar faces . It's the kind of movie that you may actually wish was longer . Jack Deth is a cool character .
Simon says " Hope you enjoy this good blast of dumb , gory fun " .	We're back in traditional slasher territory for this one , folks : a group of attractive and obnoxious kids go for a camping trip , only to be victimized by Simon ( Crispin Glover , a true hammy delight ) . Writer / director William Dear ( the man behind such movies as " Harry and the Hendersons " ! ) makes this a very silly and over-the-top affair . Don't watch this for anything resembling scares or suspense . It's an irreverent movie fulfilling some requirements of the genre - gore and T & A ( although the T & A quotient is actually much too low ) . Yet , at the same time , it plays with the conventions of the genre as well . I won't deny that it's stupid , but it's a fun kind of stupid and hard to resist . The prospect of watching the almighty and refreshingly offbeat actor Glover playing a slasher villain is one good gimmick to draw someone in , but this is also noteworthy for being a true family affair . The producer is veteran actor Ernie Lively , who managed to get three of his acting offspring into the movie : Lori , Blake , and Robyn . Son Jason ( of " Night of the Creeps " fame ) is unfortunately not to be seen , however . Even the directors ' son , Oliver , gets into the act , by playing the hapless hitch-hiker , and also serving as production designer , second unit director , special effects artist , and storyboard artist ! One has to admire Simons ' ingenuity . It's obvious that he fills his ample spare time making weapons , and what vicious weapons they are . They seem to be able to cover the entire forest . ( While the movie comes up short in terms of nudity , the plentiful gore may keep some viewers interested . ) This is additionally an interesting throwback to the politically incorrect days of the slasher genre . It will definitely shock and either delight or disgust you depending on your sensibilities . I can understand why some people wouldn't like it , but I had a high old time watching this ridiculous and shameless no-brainer . It's a positively infectious dose of nonsense .
A great early 80's shocker .	An obviously distraught young man ( Zeljko Ivanek , in the role that " introduced " him ) attempts suicide and is subsequently taken to a state mental hospital . There , a sympathetic psychiatrist , Gail Farmer ( Kathryn Harrold ) tries to get through to him , and discovers that they are now linked telepathically . And not only that , but he clearly has strange powers that he cannot control and which cause no end of problems for the staff and fellow patients . The solid cast also includes Shirley Knight , highly enigmatic as the mysterious woman claiming to be the young man's mother , and Paul Freeman ( Belloq in " Raiders of the Lost Ark " ) as Gail's boss who argues with her about the proper way to treat this John Doe . " The Sender " has a highly intriguing scenario offering no easy answers and details that can be quite open to individual interpretation . Seeing that it was released during the slasher movie boom , it's easy to see why it might have slipped through the cracks . However , it's worth discovering or re-discovering , as director Roger Christian ( an Academy Award winner who was set decorator on " Star Wars " and art director on " Alien " ) does a very credible job at crafting it . It has a palpable sense of doom , gloom , and mystery , with a large number of genuinely effective nightmare sequences . Trevor Jones's music is excellent as well . This overlooked and efficiently disturbing film is definitely worth catching . It was released on DVD this year so hopefully that will help it gain more recognition .
MMM . . . That's good eating !	Aged farmer Vincent ( Rory Calhoun ) and his plump , younger sister Ida ( Nancy Parsons ) operate both a hotel ( it's actually the " Motel Hello " , but the last " o " on the neon sign burnt out ) and a farm in the back of the beyond and they make the best smoked meat for miles around . What's their secret ingredient ? Wouldn't you like to know ! High camp in the boondocks , including elements of both horror and comedy . It's silly but it's pretty funny as well . It's gory , although not in a throw - buckets - of - blood - at - the - camera kind of way . Calhoun is a perfectly smooth , laid-back , good ol ' boy who despite his ghoulish activities comes off as kind of likable , believe it or not ! Parsons , who some viewers will know best from her role in the " Porky's " series , is clearly having fun as well . Paul Linke , as their sibling ( he also happens to be the local sheriff ) manages to hold his own alongside his co-stars . This was the first American effort for British genre director Kevin Connor , who was at the helm of various science-fiction / fantasy films of the 1970's , and he displays a capable enough aptitude for this material . This film truly has an interesting casting mix - where else can you see cowboy veteran Calhoun and the legendary , raspy-voiced deejay Wolfman Jack together ? Cast also includes future ' Cheers ' mailman John Ratzenberger ( he plays a punk rock drummer ( ! ) who doesn't have one word of dialog ) , Playboy Playmate Monique St . Pierre , and future casting director Nina Axelrod as this movie's requisite attractive , sweet young thing . The lively climax features a show-stopping chain saw duel and a sequence that may actually be paying tribute to " Night of the Living Dead " ! Vincent's final line is priceless . A funny , twisted little midnight movie .
One of the great " giant bug " movies of the 1950's .	Scientist Gerald Deemer ( Leo G . Carroll ) has developed a formula that he hopes will solve the problem of a growing world population with not enough food to feed them all . The formula causes animals to grow at an accelerated rate , and wouldn't you know it , a giant tarantula escapes and scours the Southwestern desert , devouring some hapless victims and terrorizing all . I enjoyed this movie because it remains convincing instead of descending into laugh-ability as I'm sure some of the other " giant bug " movies of the period did . The special effects actually work , and the film is refreshingly serious when it could have turned into blatant camp . I thought it was genuinely chilling , with likable characters and good pacing . John Agar is an engaging hero , and Mara Corday fits the mold of other female leads from the period - brainy instead of being merely decorative . The added subplot that shows what the formula does to human beings is a decent bonus - the makeup effects turn out to be pretty good , especially as they relate to the character of Deemer . A certain gravely-voiced film legend , in one of his earliest feature film appearances , can be seen right at the end of the film , as the jet squadron leader . A good effort by all concerned ; an uncredited Henry Mancini was one of the composers of the effective music score .
I think that one aspect of this film is true . . .	No matter what you think of it , you don't forget it . This then quite daring project from director Tod Browning , who'd recently had a horror hit with the Universal production of " Dracula " , is unique for the way it depicts sideshow performers on film . They are treated with dignity and respect . Browning , a former circus performer himself , gathered an incredible assemblage of real-life sideshow attractions to take part in this now landmark film . It may have had a rocky reception for many years ( sadly contributing to the demise of the directors ' career ) , but it's now often regarded as a true classic . Olga Baclanova portrays Cleopatra , a trapeze performer who only likes midget Hans ( Harry Earles ) for what he can do for her . In reality , she feels nothing but disdain and even revulsion at the freaks in her circus . While making time with strongman Hercules ( Henry Victor ) , she learns that Hans has come into a lot of money and marries him , plotting to murder him and inherit the wealth . However , after being exposed for being that kind of person , Hans ' peers exact a creepy revenge on her . Each of these performers has a likable and compelling presence . They include a bearded lady , a half-man / half-woman , a " living skeleton " , a " bird lady " , a " living torso " ( Prince Randian needs to be seen to be believed - watch as he lights a cigarette without the benefit of any limbs ) , women without arms , and a man with no lower body . These people are really quite fascinating to watch . The cast , including Wallace Ford as amiable , wisecracking clown Phroso and gorgeous Leila Hyams as Venus , his love interest , all deliver entertaining performances . Victor is a delightful ham as Hercules ; one can see the influence of a stage background in his portrayal . Although it's most often been labeled as horror , it's really more of a melodrama and backstage look at circus life until a stormy and spooky climax . The image of the freaks crawling through the mud after the horrified Cleopatra definitely sticks in the mind . Interestingly , it's based on a story titled " Spurs " by Todd Robbins , in which the characters are all seen as dark to some degree - even the freaks are written as unsympathetic . The subtext of the movie - as in who the real " freaks " are - is impossible to miss . It lends the movie resonance . The movie is also a remarkable example of pushing the envelope back when " talkie " motion pictures were still fresh and exciting and before moral restrictions would start to really take hold on cinema . " Freaks " is a solid movie worth seeking out .
More sad than funny this time around . . .	Curt Reynolds ( J . Trevor Edmond ) defies his father , Colonel John Reynolds ( Kent McCord ) , and takes to the road with girlfriend Julie ( Melinda Clarke ) . However , fate dictates that a tragic motorcycle accident will take Julie's life . Curt takes her body back to the lab where he has already witnessed some horrific zombie experiments that his father is supervising , intending to resurrect her . He is so blinded by his love for her that he is in complete denial that she may not be the same as before when she is brought back . . . Foregoing the combination of horror and comedy in the first two " Return of the Living Dead " movies , horror veteran Brian Yuzna instead gives us a serious horror thriller with the added aspect of a tragic love story , with protagonists one can actually sympathize with , and some actual characters instead of cardboard cut-outs . Knockout Melinda ( a . k . a . Mindy ) Clarke , most recently of ' The O . C . ' , gives a great performance , and Edmond and McCord do all right as well . Other characters aren't as well fleshed out , but Basil Wallace ( whom some viewers may recognize as the villain from Steven Seagal's 1990 vehicle " Marked for Death " ) gets a big showcase , and when you see what he is subjected to later , you may feel bad for him as well . The cast also includes James T . Callahan , Mike Moroff , Sal Lopez , and Sarah Douglas of " Superman " and " Superman II " as the kind of cold-blooded evil lady she has always done to perfection . The horror of the movie sort of builds as it goes along , with an intense , great climax full of hideous splatter and zombie creations . Also noteworthy is the attention paid to the look / costuming of the Julie and Riverman zombies . I also liked that scene with the store owner attacking the cop ; that was an impressive looking effect as well . It's good , intense entertainment for horror fans , made all the more so for actually being emotionally involving .
I really enjoyed this one .	Jerry Manning ( Dennis O'Keefe ) is the manager for a nightclub performer named Kiki Walker ( Jean Brooks ) and he gets the bright idea to have her bring in a leopard one night . The leopard gets spooked and runs off , only to maul a poor girl later that night . When more young victims are claimed , Jerry begins to doubt that it's still the work of the leopard . The New Mexico setting is a very good one for this well done Val Lewton production . It provides this incredibly spooky tale with real flavor in addition to the brooding atmosphere common to the Lewton canon . Director Jacques Tourner here had his third and final teaming with Lewton ( after " The Cat People " and " I Walked with a Zombie " ) and he really ratchets up the tension in some scenes . The sequence in which initial victim Teresa ( Margaret Landry ) is obliged to walk through a tunnel under a train overpass is completely unnerving . Lewton and Tourneur do a great job of setting up the scares with use of sound and firing our imagination as to how gruesome these murders are . Ardel Wray wrote the screenplay ( with an additional dialog credit for Edward Dein ) based on the Cornel Woolrich story " Black Alibi " . While it works very well as horror , as a mystery it's not so successful , with the perpetrator's identity a little too easy to guess . And the denouement isn't as satisfactory as the balance of the picture , although the motivation for the spree comes off as too creepily real , with what we now know about serial killers . And in the end , there's a bit of meditation on how people sometimes try to hide their feelings and fears behind a show of coolness and imperturbability . This is well worth catching for any fan of the classic style horror movies . It's a real gem with an always palpable mood and feel .
An excellent throwback to the Gothic horror movies of decades past .	Dr . Thomas Rock ( Timothy Dalton ) needs cadavers for medical study , and he prefers not to worry too much about morals and ethics ; whatever the locals can obtain for him , he accepts . ( The deciding factor is that the " fresher " the bodies , the better . ) Scurrilous , creepy barflies Fallon ( Jonathan Pryce ) and Broom ( Stephen Rea ) get wind of this and figure to profit substantially . The problem is , these two don't hesitate to resort to outright murder to obtain bodies . As news of this breaks to the community , it threatens to destroy everything that Dr . Rock has worked for . The story of real-life Victorian era fiends William Burke and William Hare has also been fodder for other film adaptations ; one such example is the 1945 Val Lewton thriller " The Body Snatcher " , starring Boris Karloff . The script , by Dylan Thomas , was completed back in the 1950's , yet remained unfilmed until the mid-80's , when old-style Gothic horror movies were no longer in vogue . Although American-produced ( comedy legend Mel Brooks , who is in actuality a big fan of old horror movies , presents it through his company ) , the very British feel of this movie is palpable . Old pro and Hammer Studios horror veteran Freddie Francis , with a long and distinguished career as both a director and cinematographer , guides this material with a very capable eye for detail and the visuals of this movie are , quite simply , extraordinarily stylish . The predominant color scheme of reds and browns gives it a great look ; the re-creation of the time and place is equally strong . John Morris's score is magnificent and the pace is steady , with some striking images and sequences . The top-notch British cast is compulsively watchable . Dalton has some wonderfully florid dialog to deliver and his performance is intense . Pryce is perhaps the standout of the movie as the morally bankrupt Fallon , who as accomplice Broom eventually points out , seems to be enjoying the act of murder too much . Both he and Rea make for a marvelous pair of scuzzy and greedy cretins . Julian Sands , Twiggy , Lewis Fiander , Phyllis Logan , Patrick Stewart , and Sian Phillips round out the cast . The ethical dilemma posed here is interesting enough to provide some food for thought . Just what should be permissible in the name of study and progress ? The other intriguing aspect of this story is the fact that Dr . Rock actually cares more for the impoverished and destitute people of his city than his colleagues . ( The film-makers spare us nothing in depicting poverty on film . ) The end result is that although we can admire Dr . Rock to a certain extent , ultimately his good intentions cannot justify his actions , although his own philosophy is that the ends always justify the means . An unjustly overlooked and fine horror film , " The Doctor and the Devils " was a real change of pace in a decade known more for its excesses . It's worth checking out .
Exploitation with heart .	Sweet-as-could-be Southern girl Jamie Barker ( lovely and adorable Monica Gayle ) wants very much to be a country and western star . Of course , anything would be preferable to being physically reprimanded by her father for listening to country music in church , or being the object of lust for horny young males . Unfortunately , she finds sex to be a recurring theme in her quest for the big time : she runs into one big male jerk after another , the kind of men who talk big but who , more often than not , seem to only want to get in her pants . Her friendship with session musician Kelly ( Roger Davis ) finally opens a door when he introduces her to a big shot in the business , Jeb ( Glenn Corbett ) . New World sure delivers the exploitative goodies ; their track record is as good as gold in this department . The picture delivers eye-catching dollops of female nudity , and men force themselves on poor Jamie on more than one occasion . ( Even a lesbian guard gets in on the action ! ) In essence , this is , however , part of what really drives the movie : the loss of innocence , and the often depressing pitfalls on the way to making a name for oneself . It's exploitative , sure , but it's also effectively dramatic . It's heartbreaking to see this naive , trusting girl become so cynical , but also heartening to see her ultimately stand up for herself and proclaim her independence . All of this is underscored by some mighty fine country music ( with real-life singer Johnny Rodriguez doing a brief cameo as himself ) . Gayle does a superb job in the title role ; she's an absolute delight . The other cast members each play their roles very well , from the likable Davis as the friend , the all-too-believable Corbett as a selfish control freak with a yen for young women , the feisty Marcie Barkin and engaging Shirley Jo Finney as the girlfriends , the late screen veteran Jesse White as a slippery music publisher , and Roger Corman regular Leo Gordon as a truck driver . This little picture is satisfying in a number of ways , being humorous , poignant , and nicely sleazy & sordid all at the same time . It's quite simply a fine example of the exploitation boom of the 1970's .
One of Steve Martin's best comedic performances EVER .	The original " wild and crazy guy " plays Roger Cobb , an idealistic lawyer at 38 who is the victim of a truly insane predicament . Icy cold rich lady Edwina Cutwater ( Lily Tomlin ) has devised a way to cheat death by transferring her mind and soul into the body of a younger woman ( Victoria Tennant , once Martin's real-life wife ) . The transfer goes wrong and Edwina ends up inside Roger's body - and she controls half of it - leading to hilarious physical comedy and farce as she proceeds to make a shambles of his life . " All of Me " is a truly entertaining comedy with more than its share of laugh-out-loud moments and a script that is actually pretty good . It is a good showcase for Martin and Tomlin , especially Martin as he works to convince the audience that he is only in control of half of his body . It really is funny and likable and I actually grew to like Edwina as her character turned out to be more than one-dimensional . Good supporting cast , too , especially Jason Bernard and Richard Libertini . Roger turns out to be an amusingly quirky character - he takes his beloved dog Bix with him practically EVERYWHERE he goes . It is a good comedy from the 1980's that is worth seeking out if you are in the mood for a sweet-natured physical comedy / farce . I'm glad that I saw it . . . about twenty years after it came out , but better late than never .
A solid B & W Hammer effort .	Penny Appleby ( Susan Strasberg ) , rendered a paraplegic after a horse riding accident , comes home to her fathers ' mansion in France after living in Italy for ten years . Experiencing a number of disconcerting visions ( she keeps seeing her father as a corpse ) , she struggles to hold on to her sanity , while becoming suspicious of stepmother Jane ( Ann Todd ) and doctor / family friend Pierre Gerrard ( genre icon Christopher Lee , doing an amusing French accent ) and befriending helpful chauffeur Bob ( Ronald Lewis ) . An effective and entertaining movie that's more of a mystery than true horror , " Taste of Fear " does have its share of creepy moments . Director Seth Holt does a great job of crafting tension , especially between the characters . What really work are the twists veteran Hammer scribe Jimmy Sangster puts into his story . True enough , there's not much here that's all that surprising , but it's a still good enough job of leading a viewer to think one thing , and think they're actually ahead of the story , then start laying on the revelations . The final , last minute twist is particularly delicious . The very pretty Strasberg is wonderfully vulnerable in the lead , with fine work by the supporting cast . Lee actually doesn't get to do all that much , unfortunately , but Todd and especially Lewis are most enjoyable . The stark b & w photography really sets the mood , and the music is used sparingly ; the movie works just as well in its silences . The scene where Lewis searches the pool is indeed a standout , especially the way that the lighting is so limited . This is a solid little film and worth catching for any Hammer fan .
An entertainingly nasty , go-for-broke early 70's exploitationer .	A Satan-worshiping , Manson-style hippie cult led by charismatic kook Horace ( Indian dancer Bhaskar , in a sometimes hysterical lead performance ) comes to a small , small town in rural America . Their subsequent humiliation of elderly local veterinarian Dr . Banner results in his grandson Petes ' ( Riley Mills ) outlandish plan of extracting rabies from a rabid dog that he's just shot and injecting it into the meat pies that he proceeds to feed to them . The result : psychotic , homicidal , foaming-at-the-mouth hippies , who start chowing down on the locals and creating more crazed killers . Writer-director David Durston was encouraged by producer Jerry Gross to create the most shocking , outrageous film that he could come up with , and Durston delivers the lurid thrills in high style , directing with gusto and crafting a swift-moving picture ending in true " Night of the Living Dead " fashion . The uninitiated should be prepared for various bloody stabbings , amputations , a decapitation , self-immolation , cruelty to animals , and the like ( not to mention a little dose of nudity ) . It's extremely raw stuff , but done with such unbridled moxie that one has to admire Durston and crew for it . Adding to the overall offbeat vibe of this fun flick is a music score by Clay Pitts that is just plain strange at times , overbearing at others , and sometimes very groovy . It's also rather amusing to see the infected maniacs react so strongly to coming in contact with any amount of water ; the result is very comedic , whether that was intentional or not . The acting is courtesy of a game no-name cast that does include the uncredited film debut of sexy cult actress Lynn Lowry , whose character is mute . Some subtext has been read into this by its viewers , including the effects of multi-culturalism on white America , although Durston has maintained that that was never intentional . The very first picture ever to be rated " X " by the MPAA , that should automatically be enough to pique the interest of the adventurous . This is the kind of sleazy schlock that can't be easily dismissed or forgotten . It's an unapologetically foul and nasty low-budgeter and a great dose of 70's exploitation .
Lurid , exciting NYC thriller .	Aggrieved psycho Gus Soltic ( Cliff Gorman ) intends to kidnap a poor little rich girl for ransom . The only problem is , he nabs the wrong girl , the daughter of ex-cop turned trucker Sean Boyd ( James Brolin ) . Boyd then tears the City from top to bottom in the quest to get his daughter back . For one thing , this entertaining chase movie has a good cast . Brolin ain't exactly a squeaky clean Dudley Do Right type of hero . As you can see from watching this , he's pretty relentless . Brolin delivers an intense performance matched by the greasy sleaziness of Gorman . Richard Castellano of " The Godfather " is a pursuing detective , Linda Miller the hysterical ex-wife , Barton Heyman an asthmatic preacher , Julie Carmen a helpful dog pound employee , Dan Hedaya a hostile and resentful cop who hates Brolins ' guts , Mandy Patinkin a chatty , excitable cabbie who lends a hand early on in the film , Marco St . John a pompous , arrogant fat cat , and Abby Bluestone the imperiled daughter . Other familiar faces can be seen in smaller roles . Like other films from the same era , " Night of the Juggler " ( silly title , that , that barely gets an explanation ) captures the then wonderfully seedy ambiance of NYC . The location shooting is excellent . Directed with great force by Robert Butler , this picture moves at a high pace , with plenty of stunt-packed action sequences . ( Stunt coordinator Chris Howell even enlists his own son , actor C . Thomas Howell , as one of the stunt performers ! ) One thing's for sure : taking everything into consideration , the picture certainly isn't at any time ever boring . It offers a rather murky climax that unfortunately isn't as ultimately satisfying as I would have liked , but at least Butler keeps the level of tension high . It's a gritty little movie that could use a little more exposure , so a DVD release would certainly help in that regard .
The sound of one hand strangling . . .	Very interesting and pretty effective psychological horror stars the always wonderful Michael Caine as the creator of a fantasy-based comic strip who is having some pretty strained relations with wife Anne ( Andrea Marcovicci ) . Well , his life takes a horrific turn when , in a bizarre traffic accident , his drawing hand is severed . As Jon Lansdale ( Caine ) goes to live in solitude with a new gig as a college professor in California , the missing hand seems to have taken on a " life " of its own , murdering everybody who makes Jon angry . I severely under-rated this one upon first viewing a few years back . I now realize what the intent here was , and the film works quite well , drawing us into the increasingly unstable and paranoid mind of Jon . Caine does a highly creditable job in this role . It's a dark and moody tale , well realized by future Oscar-winning film-maker Oliver Stone , in this early directorial effort . Stone also gets good performances out of the supporting cast , which also includes adorable young Mara Hobel - the young Christina Crawford in the same years ' " Mommie Dearest " , Rosemary Murphy , Annie McEnroe , Bruce McGill , Charles Fleischer , Pat Corley , and Tracey Walter . Carlo Rambaldi supplies the many different hand effects , James Horner contributes a solid score from the early years of his career , and King Baggot is the excellent cinematographer . Stone has a very good crew to work with here . In contrast to the psychological aspects of the story , Stone doesn't shy away from the red stuff when it's time . The severing of the hand is a good and gruesome set piece . For the most part , though , it's a subtle piece of work . Although the final scene doesn't seem all that necessary , the picture does end on a memorable final note . The final freeze frame of Caines ' face just says it all . Overall , it's an under-rated shocker worth looking into for the curious .
A solid second season entry .	Abortion clinic employees Alex and Kim ( Mark Feuerstein , Emmanuelle Vaugier ) nearly run into panicked teenager Angelique Burcell ( Caitlin Wachs ) , and after seeing that she is pregnant , attempt to help her in any way that they can . However , chasing after the girl is her militant pro-life father Dwayne ( Ron Perlman ) , who attempts to get his daughter back . The story's biggest twist actually comes when the girl tells the doctors who the father is . Working the divisive pro-life vs . pro-choice issue into a nicely intense horror story , writers Drew McWeeney and Scott Swan ( who also wrote the first Carpenter ' Masters of Horror ' entry ' Cigarette Burns ' ) did a good job with this entertaining episode . While , to be honest , I wasn't at all scared , it was still a respectable job . It works because it appeals to both the intellect and the need for more visceral thrills . Wherever you stand on the issue , I commend this story for not painting things in black and white , making the people on both sides of the issue in this story flawed , and , well , human . Perlman is , as usual , solid and reliable , effectively underplaying a character who is willing to be ruthless in pursuit of his goal . With the exception of Wachs , who isn't very convincing ( she just didn't show enough raw emotion ) , but everybody else basically gets the job done , with none of the performances underwhelming enough to distract from the rest of the film ( although there is one obligatory jerk-type character ) . The writers may very well be fans of Carpenter's landmark creature feature " The Thing " , for there are some good visual references to that film to be seen here . Other gore effects ( and the series , in general , is never one to shy away from good , gory mayhem ) are actually kind of disappointing , sometimes laughable . The fornicating demon is fortunately not too cheesy ; it doesn't look all that bad . Carpenter's son Cody does a decent job with the music here ; it's sort of in tune with the elder Carpenter's style of composing by being a subtle , simple little keyboard score , and it works pretty well . The writing leaves a gap or two in the narrative . I would like to know just how Dwayne found out Angelique was pregnant in the first place , and how Angelique managed to get such an impressive head start on foot . Some of the lines turn out to be pretty bad : " Get it out of me ! It's EVIL ! " ( I'm paraphrasing there ) or " You beeping killed me ! " as the jerk character is gunned down and stares at his killer in disbelief . But overall , I like this episode and think that it works because it's both reasonably smart and fairly visceral . It's another impressive job for Carpenter , who is certainly one of the directors of this series to have genuinely earned the title .
Very effective documentary of the horror genre .	Director Adam Simon , whose resume includes directing such fictional movies as " Brain Dead " and " Carnosaur " for Roger Corman , is the man behind this incredibly sobering and thoughtful dissection of horror . A variety of big names in the genre - George A . Romero , Tom Savini , Tobe Hooper , Wes Craven , John Landis , David Cronenberg , and John Carpenter , as well as professors Tom Gunning , Carol Clover , and Adam Lowenstein , sit down and offer their perspectives on particular films . They discuss their reactions to having seen certain films , and the film-makers provide insight into the inspiration for their films . What makes it so sobering is seeing how powerfully real life horrors have affected past generations . In a really good touch , stock footage is interspersed with similar footage from horror films . Such historic events as the assassination of Martin Luther King , the Kent State incident , and especially the Vietnam war are discussed at length . Savini talks about how his Vietnam experience would ultimately play a part in his future career in makeup effects . The participants all give very interesting , intelligent , and entertaining interviews . One of the most fascinating aspects is getting a little bit of a glimpse into some of the film-makers ' own childhoods , and how such things as what to do in the case of an air raid siren going off would be one of their most potent memories . If you don't usually bother to check out bonus features on DVD's , a documentary such as this would be a solid alternative . It can really help one to understand where film-makers are coming from and gain a greater appreciation of their work .
A typically intense and provocative early Cronenberg chiller .	Frank Carveth ( Art Hindle ) has a real problem on his hands . His unstable wife Nola ( Samantha Eggar ) is in the care of Dr . Hal Raglan ( Oliver Reed ) , who operates an institution named Somafree . Raglan's own form of therapy is known as " Psychoplasmics " , in which his patients relieve their pent-up emotions . When Nola does this , it has a particularly disturbing physical reaction : the title creatures , the products of her rage , strike out at anyone to whom she feels animosity . Frank determines to keep their five-year-old daughter Candy ( Cindy Hinds ) away from her . Cronenberg really ratchets up the intensity in this very intimate and creepy film . It works as a commentary on the proliferation of various forms of therapy at the time this was made , and does a fine job of illustrating the danger of repressed rage in the context of a horror film . Other topics such as the cycle of child abuse and the traumas inflicted on children get worked into the screenplay . " The Brood " is a true freak show with a constant flow of nail - biting tension and particularly bizarre and scary child-size beings . The murder of Candy's sweet teacher Ruth ( Susan Hogan ) is graphic and upsetting , especially since it goes down right in front of her students . The climax is far and away the best part , with one of the craziest and most memorable money shots in a film of this kind . Reed is quietly eerie as Dr . Raglan , calmly delivering all of his dialog in a clipped , matter - of-fact fashion . Eggar herself is quite scary as the unhinged Nola , and Hindle makes for an easily sympathetic hero . Robert Silverman is enjoyable in one of his standard eccentric parts for Cronenberg ( he also appeared in " Rabid " , " Scanners " , " Naked Lunch " , and " eXistenZ " ) , and Nicholas Campbell ( who appeared in " The Dead Zone " and " Naked Lunch " ) has an early screen role as Chris . With a frightening music score by Howard Shore playing in the background , " The Brood " stands as another amazing experience in " body horror " from an always interesting film - maker .
Above all else , don't eat the fish .	After the pilots and many of the passengers on a cross-Canada flight fall victim to food poisoning , the fate of them all depends on one man : passenger Ted Stryker ( Dana Andrews ) , who flew during the war , and is attempting to reconcile with fed-up wife Ellen ( Linda Darnell ) . The only problem is that Ted can't get over a devastating incident in which he lost six of his men , and he's not sure that he's up to this challenge . It's now next to impossible for many folks like myself who happen to have seen the hilarious and memorable 1980 spoof " Airplane ! " before viewing this movie without thinking of that other one . It's incredible just how closely the Zucker-Abrahams-Zucker team followed " Zero Hour ! " - lines uttered in this movie were re-used word for word 23 years later , and even whole scenes are virtual carbon copies of what went before . This material certainly had to have been greeted with much more gravity , and certainly not seen as " camp " , back in 1957 , but now it's hard not to expect the zingers to pop up . Although a review of this movie now wouldn't quite seem complete without a reference to " Airplane ! " , I don't want mine to be just about that . I commend these film-makers ( director Hall Bartlett and producer John Champion wrote the screenplay with author Arthur Hailey ) and especially the actors for performing it with such admirable poker faces . They clearly played this like they meant it back then , right down to the melodramatic music score by Ted Dale . And the story itself is actually pretty good and compelling . Bartlett maintains a consistent pace and energy and the movie has a nicely moody , film-noir style look to it . This entertaining cast includes football legend Elroy " Crazylegs " Hirsch as the pilot , Sterling Hayden as the man required to talk Stryker through the landing , Geoffrey Toone as the doctor , Peggy King as the stewardess , Jerry Paris as Tony , and Raymond Ferrell as Joey . It's also a big bonus for a Canadian viewer like me to hear so many of our cities ( my hometown is mentioned repeatedly ) and even one of our football teams mentioned . I couldn't help but get a big kick out of that . It's fun to watch , even if seeing " Airplane ! " first will unavoidably affect the way we see it .
Well Done .	40's version of Shakespeare's classic has Laurence Olivier as the " melancholy Dane " , the prince of Denmark whose father has recently died and whose mother has re-married . . . to his father's brother , a man whom Hamlet cannot stand . Eventually the truth behind his father's death emerges , and Hamlet pretends to have lost his mind while formulating a revenge plan . I'm not really a fan of Shakespeare or the theatre , but I have to be objective and admit that this is a film of distinction , and has the utmost respect for the source material . Cast is certainly great . The night scenes are creepy , and the duelling scene is not bad . I do miss the presence of Rosencrantz and Guildenstern , who are absent from this version . . . they provided welcome comedy relief in the play . Peter Cushing , in his pre-Hammer horror days , is funny in the role of the iffeminate Osric . Good enough to rate an , I think . It is pretty long , though .
Very entertaining entry in Hammers ' Dracula series .	On her way to a teaching job , Marianne Danielle ( Yvonne Monlaur ) is persuaded to spend the night at the mansion of Baroness Meinster ( Martita Hunt ) . There she finds that the Baroness's son ( David Peel ) is kept chained up . She takes pity on him , and frees him . Little does she know what a mistake she is making . Fortunately for her , the indomitable Dr . Van Helsing ( the always wonderful Peter Cushing ) arrives on the scene . . . but will he be able to save her ? This enjoyable shocker , sandwiched in between " The Horror of Dracula " and " Dracula : Prince of Darkness " , goes to show that the Count himself need not be present for the sake of a good show . The story here is interesting in its own right , and the performances are quite good . The handsome Peel makes for a charismatic bloodsucker , the striking Freda Jackson a real scene stealer as old crone housekeeper Greta , and stalwart old genre pros such as Miles Malleson and Michael Ripper are fun as usual . It's colorful , with typically fine mood and atmosphere , a superb score by Malcolm Williamson , and efficient pacing and meticulous direction by Terence Fisher ; standout scenes include a shot of Greta on top of a grave urging the victim to rise , and especially Van Helsings ' impromptu healing of a neck wound . It all leads to a nicely rousing conclusion . Another solid outing from the fine folks at Hammer Studios .
Enjoyable B comedy .	" Police Academy " inspired movie that kick started a series ( six in total ) ; a mostly female class of vice squad hopefuls go through training . The three leads are ever delightful Linnea Quigley , sexy Karen Russell , and affable Ken Abraham as pals who need to fill a quota of arrests before graduation . Before the movie is over , they'll take on both porno movie makers and a bevy of hookers . This cheerfully silly movie is hard to resist . Writer - producer - director - editor Rick Sloane keeps it so upbeat that I can forgive just how silly it is . It delivers some good laughs and a fine assortment of attractive female cast members ( Quigley and Russell also bare their breasts as a good bonus ) . Everyone looks like they're having a good time , which definitely helps . Ginger Lynn Allen provides a good foil for Quigley as her snooty competitor ( the daughter of the police chief ) , with standout supporting turns by Jayne Hamil as the demanding instructor Miss Devonshire , a campy Jeannie Carol as the villainous Queen Bee , and Stephanie Bishop as porno director Desiree . They're each quite amusing in their own way . Overall , it's an agreeable lowbrow comedy that I had a pretty good time watching .
Required viewing for those who adore 70's trash .	In one of his flamboyant leading roles in 70's exploitation films , the marvelous , under-rated character star Andrew Prine gets a bad guy part to relish . Sporting an unkempt mop of hair , eyeglasses , and priceless Buster Brown shoes , he's indignant moralizer and sadistic nut job Clement Dunne . He's killing all of the girls who posed for a men's magazine , and is the common element in a movie that is broken down into three " stories " . The story is courtesy of Arthur Marks , director of such blaxploitation pictures as " Bucktown " and " Friday Foster " . It sets up what is basically an ideal movie for 70's exploitation fans . It's sleazy , sordid , mean-spirited , and cold . Director John Peyser truly not does hold one thing back ; he shoves all of this trash right in your face and keeps it there . Nor is there any pretense at making characters likable or sympathetic , pretty much everybody hanging around is rotten to one extent or another . It's a rare feat in such a movie when the killer is really no worse than the people around him and in fact is more engaging a character than his victims . It's rather amusing in the end just how depraved this movie is from one minute to the next . Violence and sex mingle continuously ; many of the attractive female cast members bare their flesh at some point . These ladies represent a great roll call of 70's favorites : Tiffany Bolling , Janet Wood , Teda Bracci , Tallie Cochrane , Janus Blythe , and Connie Strickland . Also making appearances are such familiar male actors as Aldo Ray , Ray Danton , Jeremy Slate , Mike Mazurki , and Dan Seymour . ( Worth noting for horror fans is that Paula Shaw , who played Mrs . Voorhees in " Freddy Vs . Jason " almost 30 years later , is cast here as Aldo's wife . ) This cast and this crew set out to give the audience exactly what they crave and then some , and this movie therefore comes highly recommended .
One of Stallone's best .	" Nighthawks " is a thoroughly decent action thriller about street cop Deke DaSilva ( Sylvester Stallone ) who , along with his partner Matthew Fox ( Billy Dee Williams ) , is assigned to a special counter-terrorism unit that's after terrorist-for-hire Wulfgar ( Rutger Hauer , in his first American film ) , who comes to NYC to prove to terrorist cells worldwide that he is still employable after some bad moves on his part . Right from the get go , " Nighthawks " proves to be a film that will waste little time . The film-makers tell the story in an efficient , very competent way , delivering good scenes of action and suspense . I would also venture to say that it's entertaining without trying to be overly flashy . The film was directed by Bruce Malmuth ( who came in to replace the original director ) , then in his forties , making a belated film-making debut but doing a credible job . He elicits believable performances from his cast - Stallone offers one of his better performances , and he and Williams are well matched . Hauer is smooth and charismatic as the dapper yet cold-blooded bad guy . It's just too bad that Lindsay Wagner's role is mostly inconsequential . It WAS nice , as always , to see Joe Spinell - who was also in the original " Rocky " with Stallone - as Stallone's and Williams's superior . Nigel Davenport did a fine job as the terrorism expert , and the late , striking Indian actress Persis Khambatta is on hand as Wulfgar's associate Shakka . The music score by Keith Emerson was okay . " Nighthawks " moves along well and is a pretty entertaining diversion .
Bava turns his attention to a new genre and does a creditable job .	Mario Bava , the late , great master of artfully done horror films , tackled a completely different genre - the crime thriller - in this incredibly gripping film . A trio of no-count hoodlums : cool , calm and collected " Doctor " ( Maurice Poli ) , and the mangy duo of Bisturi ( Aldo Capone ) and " Thirty-Two " ( Luigi Montefiori , a . k . a . George Eastman ) , pull off a violent robbery and take it on the lam . They soon have acquired themselves some hostages : Maria ( Lea Lander ) and Riccardo ( Riccardo Cucciolla ) , and force Riccardo to drive them the rest of the way to their destination . Bava proved just as adept at this sort of material as the more fantastical stuff . It's stylish and energetic , not to mention extremely grim and gritty . He and his crew were aiming for " maximum cynicism " , which they pull off in a major way . The movie , largely confined to the interior of a car , creates an overwhelmingly claustrophobic setting , with many close-ups of the actors ' intense and sweaty faces . The movie pulls none of its punches and can make a viewer feel as if they a part of the action as well ; it has that sense of immediacy . In fact , that was another aim of the film-makers : to make it appear , as much as possible , that the story was unfolding in real time . This movie moves at a true machine-gun pace ; it's established in the first few minutes and simply does not let up until the picture is well under-way . Bava was apparently quite enthused to be working on this project , which would prove to be contagious . It can quite easily make the viewer enthusiastic watching it . Adding to the entertainment factor is Stelvio Cipriani's immensely enjoyable , funky and flashy music score . It's also quite an attraction to see so much of the Italian countryside . Fans of the film and the director know the following details , but for the uninitiated I should mention that this film might not have seen the light of day . The production company went into bankruptcy before the completion of the film and it was locked away for many years until co-star Lander was instrumental in rescuing it and getting it a release . Producer Alfredo Leone and Mario's son , director Lamberto Bava ( longtime assistant to his father ) would re-edit the film , shoot new material and opening credits , and change the ending and music score , giving it the new title " Kidnapped " . The cast really gives this 100 % . Cucciolla ( who Bava had wanted for the lead from the start ) and Poli are excellent as the most controlled of the characters , with Eastman a real hoot as the deliciously unhinged " Thirty-Two " . He and Capone make for a great pair of depraved lowlifes . This film is a lot of fun , and worth catching for any Bava fans that have yet to see it .
A richly rewarding late Hammer entry .	German actor Horst Janson plays our title character , a dashing man who brandishes a mean sword and has vowed to destroy vampires everywhere . His loyal assistant is the steadfast Prof . Hieronymous Grost ( John Cater ) , who just happens to be hunchbacked . As they come to a remote village to attend to a local vampire problem , they acquire a new companion in Carla ( gorgeous horror starlet Caroline Munro ) , whom they save from a pillory . Writer , director , and co-producer Brian Clemens does an admirable job here of breathing a bit of new life into the traditional vampire story . He comes up with ingenious new spins on vampire lore . For one thing , this vampire drains not blood but the youth out of its victims , turning them into withered old crones , and as Grost explains to Dr . Marcus ( John Carson ) , an old friend of Kronos , not all vampires can be killed through the traditional method of stakes through the hearts . Grost even plants dead toads underground to track the vampires ' movements , which is a really interesting touch . This highly engaging , fanciful adventure with horror overtones , alas , never became the franchise that it was hoped it would become , which is only too bad considering how well executed it is . It's rousing , atmospheric ( no small feat considering that much of the film takes place during the daytime ) , suspenseful , and nicely plotted ( the big climactic revelation was a pleasant surprise ) . Laurie Johnson contributes a magnificent score and the fine indoor sets and outdoor locations are very well shot by Ian Wilson . Janson and Cater are definitely an enjoyable pair of heroes , with Munro quite appealing in her role , and Carson , Shane Briant , and Lois Daine offering fine support in the key supporting roles . Ian Hendry , as a trouble-making barfly , and Wanda Ventham contribute significant and entertaining cameo performances . This is an original and refreshing variation on the classic vampire story , and it's most certainly worth a look for horror fans .
My first women-in-prison flick .	Wilson ( Erica Gavin ) is nabbed by the cops and sent to prison in this slick and amusing example of prime 70's exploitation , marking the directing debut of Jonathan Demme . After writing and producing a few of mentor Roger Cormans ' New World films , Demme was afforded the opportunity to direct for the first time , and he delivers a movie that not only delivers the expected and tasty doses of nudity and violence , but has an appealing tongue-in-cheek quality to it as well ; it's often as funny as it is flashy . Standout scenes include a lewd and crude vaudeville style act performed for the prisoners , as well as a potent dream / fantasy sequence for uptight and obviously very repressed Superintendent McQueen ( horror icon Barbara Steele , doing a marvelous turn in this antagonistic role ) . I also enjoyed a bank robbery scene gone haywire and a carjacking scene that was simply uproarious . As in other movies of this kind , it's also commendable that it's as much a portrait of female empowerment as it is pure exploitation . These women are tough , they take no garbage from anybody , and they're more than capable of handling themselves . Our attractive cast here makes the most of their roles : Juanita Brown as the aggressive Maggie , Roberta Collins as the sassy Belle , Rainbeaux Smith as the cute and timid Lavelle , Gavin as the wide-eyed newcomer , and Lynda Gold ( a . k . a . Crystin Sinclaire ) in a bright appearance as an accomplice on the outside . As our climax plays out , Demme comes up with a tense " beat the clock " finish as our heroines race to save Belle from being lobotomized by predatory Dr . Randolph ( Warren Miller ) , the type of man who thinks nothing of taking advantage of women . Bouncing along to John Cales ' flavorful score , " Caged Heat " is upbeat entertainment and a guaranteed good time .
Very entertaining thriller with top-notch cast .	A hostage situation in a London townhouse is made all the worse by an unexpected element : a deadly Black Mamba , a snake with particularly lethal venom . The snake was sent to the wrong customer , wouldn't you know it , and now it has the run of the place . Brought in to replace original director Tobe Hooper ( supposedly a casualty of the ever-popular excuse " creative differences " ) , Piers Haggard stepped in and did an admirable job . The snake doesn't actually play as big a part in the proceedings as one might think ; it's simply another wrinkle in the plan of the hostage takers . The movie is full of sharp , unrelenting tension ; it starts slowly as it sets up all of the plot developments , and then unfolds at a nerve-wracking pace . The cast is far and away the best component : an international collection of professionals including a typically intense and squirrelly Klaus Kinski , an edgy Oliver Reed , a high-strung Susan George , and a tired-looking but very solid Sterling Hayden brings life to the proceedings . It's just as interesting to watch the interplay between Kinski and Reed ( apparently , they could not get on in real life as well ) in addition to the other major players . Sarah Miles , Nicol Williamson , Cornelia Sharpe , Lance Holcomb , and Michael Gough all do a good job as well . David Ball , a real life London zoo keeper brought on board for technical advice , is actually played in the film by Gough . Excellent music by Michael Kamen and polished cinematography by ace veteran Gilbert Taylor are major assets ; the snakes ' point of view camera work works well and is a nice touch . Everybody involved combines their talents to craft a riveting movie that might have descended into silly schlock in less professional hands . The London setting was a nice locale , and the film is never at any time boring . It's fun from beginning to end .
It was nice to see this finally get a DVD release .	A quintet of young men go through basic training as Marines before serving in Vietnam . Eventually , in an amusing twist , their futures lie in the outcome of a soccer game . Private Alvin Foster ( James Canning ) , determined to write about combat experiences , keeps a journal of their progress . This good , solid Vietnam War film is entertaining from start to finish . The soccer game proves to be an apt metaphor for the war , pondering the idea of whether winning is really better than living . The story is an interesting one and it's well told , but what really holds it together are the performances of the main cast members . Craig Wasson , who also composed the haunting song " Here I Am " , is the hippie who's vowed that he will not kill anyone , Michael Lembeck is the womanizer who often pays a price for his exploits , Andrew Stevens is the wholesome good old boy with a pregnant girlfriend back home , Canning is the ambitious , would-be writer , and Stan Shaw , in the best performance of the film , the hot - headed loner who comes around and learns how to work as part of a team , even developing good leadership qualities . Real-life former Drill Instructor R . Lee Ermey brings all of his authenticity to his first major film role , with Noble Willingham , James Whitmore , Jr . , and Santos Morales offering solid support . Philippines natives Ken Metcalfe and Vic Diaz have cameo roles . It's completely matter of fact in what it portrays without getting sentimental . It's also quite up front about showing the more cynical aspects of the war , and how corruption , ineptitude , and greed played a part in what went on . The young men , importantly , are likable and it's interesting to watch as their characters change as the film goes along . Washington ( Shaw ) tends to have the best moments . That said , it's always impressive to watch Ermey do his thing . His character is an interesting contrast to Hartman in " Full Metal Jacket " , in any event . The locations are well utilized , and the film looks quite good as shot in the Panavision aspect ratio . " The Boys in Company C " is worth watching and deserves to be mentioned in the same breath as more popular films about the Vietnam War .
Neat Trick With The Spoons .	Jeremy " Powder " Reed ( Sean Patrick Flanery ) is a hairless albino who's been sheltered from the outside world by his grandparents . Once they are both dead , he's forced to venture into the outside world - and deal with ignorance , bigotry and fear for the first time . He is also discovered to possess an abnormal amount of electricity in his body , and has extrasensory powers as well . This is an emotionally heavy and very affecting film that gets by on the strength of its performances . It's awfully hard not to keep from tearing up , especially with such a manipulative music score ( by Jerry Goldsmith ) . Unfortunately , writer-director Victor Salva's ( " Jeepers Creepers " 1 and 2 ) past is a little harder to ignore in this debut picture . There are scenes where his taste for young men is appallingly clear . So some people will NOT be able to tolerate it . Overall , it's earnest , ( mostly ) appealing and deeply affecting . Whatever points I may have to deduct for its flaws are more than made up for by the main actors . So I'll give it .
Something of a rarity these days : a genuinely creepy horror film .	Trish ( Gina Philips ) and Darry ( Justin Long ) Jenner are brother and sister driving a desolate stretch of rural highway on their way home from college for spring break . They are preyed upon by a mysterious figure who drives an ancient yet fortified truck and can be seen doing ominous things like dropping bloody bundles down drain pipes , and sniffing dirty laundry ! Intense and unnerving horror thriller - obviously inspired by Steven Spielberg's great TV movie ' Duel ' in some of its road scenes - with an elaborate and nifty creature . Also noteworthy is the fact that one could actually come to like the two leading characters ( believably portrayed by Philips and Long ) and sympathize with their plight . Writer / director Victor Salva attempts to develop these characters as much as he can in the short amount of time in the film NOT devoted to scares and shocks , and this works . Salva is aided by a talented team of film-makers , including director of photography Don E . Fauntleroy , production designer Steven Legler , composer Bennett Salvay , and the capable creature effects team . Patricia Belcher , as Jezelle , and veteran Eileen Brennan , as The Cat Lady , are good in support , making the most of their limited screen time . " Jeepers Creepers " really is a good film , and doesn't really lose all that much after more than one viewing . For those folks who may not approve of my praise for a film created by a convicted child molester ( an admittedly despicable , odious crime ) , please note that I am rating the film , not the filmmaker . Followed by a sequel in 2003 . Look for creature portrayer Jonathan Breck , sans creature makeup , as a bald-headed police officer visible during the climax .
A different offering for horror fans .	Jessica ( Zohra Lampert ) has been " away " for a while and as the movie opens is trying to get on with her life . As she moves with husband Duncan ( Barton Heyman ) and their good friend Woody ( Kevin O'Connor ) into a nice farmhouse near a cove , she has experiences that threaten to destabilize her , starting with the appearance of Emily ( Mariclare Costello ) , who has been squatting in the house . As Jessica strains to figure out what is reality , so will the audience . If I too were to categorize it as a vampire movie , it does not play out like any vampire movie that I've ever seen . Director John D . Hancock succeeds in maintaining a constant ambiguous tone . In addition , he and his crew craft a nicely shot ( by Robert M . Baldwin ) , atmospheric picture that may turn some viewers off by being so slow and quiet , but makes up for it by leaving the viewer affected after the closing credits are over . An odd mixture of rather beautiful piano melodies by Orville Stoeber and very odd electronic scores by Walter Sear adds to the intriguingly strange nature of the picture . The brief bursts of gory violence are all the more effective for standing out so much . Lampert does a respectable job in the starring title role ; she seems to possess a certain offbeat nature that helps the role of Jessica to be an unconventional character . Heyman , O'Connor , Costello , Gretchen Corbett as an unnamed mystery girl , and Alan Manson as the local antique dealer round out a good and believable cast . Costello in particular pulls off a memorably enigmatic pivotal role . I liked it , and recommend it to horror fans who like to look for something different .
Very enjoyable .	College student Nan Barlow ( Venetia Stevenson ) is taking a course in witchcraft taught by Prof . Driscoll ( Christopher Lee , doing a decent American accent ) and she's fascinated by the subject . So much so that she follows his advice and travels to a remote New England town named Whitewood . Back in 1692 , a witch named Elizabeth Selwyn ( Patricia Jessel ) was burned at the stake in Whitewood , so the place has a history ripe for discovery . However , just because macabre things once happened there doesn't mean they're not still happening . . . This was an early credit for director John Llewellyn Moxey , who went on to do genre efforts like " Circus of Fear " and ' The Night Stalker ' . ( It was also the first film produced by Amicus , one of the most successful rivals for Britains ' Hammer Studios in the ' 60's and ' 70's . At this time , however , they were known as " Vulcan " . ) Moxey infuses this simple , easy to follow , but effective mystery / shocker with ample atmosphere . For one thing , there's an incredible amount of fog in the rural settings . The stark black & white photography , imagery , and settings evoke a strong sense of foreboding and gloom . The plot twist about halfway through this short but sweet movie is very effective in the way that it plays with expectations . Lee is excellent as always , with the rest of the cast turning in fine performances as well . Stevenson is a perfect picture of endearing naivety , Valentine Dyall enigmatic as a mysterious hitch-hiking stranger , and Jessel impressive in a dual role . Remarkably good for low budget fare , " The City of the Dead " ( a . k . a . " Horror Hotel " ) is recommended to fans of old school horror everywhere .
Agnes , it's me , Scott , here's my review . . .	To this day , a memorable and frequently lauded horror thriller , believed by many people to be the true , pre - " Halloween " instigator of future scary movie trends , " Black Christmas " remains a fan favorite . As a sorority house in a college town quickly empties on Christmas Eve and Christmas Day , a mysterious figure identified only as ' Billy ' quietly enters the attic and , as stealthy as one could please , murders the remaining girls while continuing his already existing habit of generating what may be the most creatively obscene and freaky phone calls in cinema history - whining , screaming , and cursing in both male and female voices . Unlike some future slashers , " Black Christmas " doesn't revel in gory details . The intent here is clearly to subtly unnerve viewers while keeping them off balance . It's not quite your typical horror film , and it works remarkably well . The main source of the movie's humor is the vulgar sorority sister Barb - a pre - " Superman " Margot Kidder - who , in one highly amusing scene , makes a fool out of a dullard desk sergeant ( Doug McGrath ) . The acting is pretty good , with " 2001 " lead Keir Dullea as the unstable boyfriend of the movie's nominal lead , Jess ( Olivia Hussey ) , future comedy star Andrea Martin ( ' SCTV ' ) , playing it straight in the best friend role , and John Saxon ( " Enter the Dragon " , " A Nightmare on Elm Street " ) as a dedicated detective . This is also one of those cases where the music score becomes a big part of the effect - but it's a very subtle music score - no obvious orchestral crescendos , but a lot of low , atonal rumbling in the background . Filmed in Canada ( with a few familiar Canadian character players in smaller roles ) , and obviously in the actual wintertime . You can practically feel the cold in some of those scenes . Worth noting for its particularly chilling ending - not that I can possibly say any more than that - but let me tell you it's a good one . Trivia note : in a piece of casting that brings things full circle , Martin is playing the house mother in the soon-to-be-released remake .
" Never believe what you publish , never publish what you believe . "	Richard Dees ( expertly portrayed by Miguel Ferrer ) , the star reporter for the tabloid magazine " Inside View " , is hot on the trail of a mysterious killer with a highly unconventional modus operandi . He flies a Cessna Skymaster painted black , lands it at out-of-the-way airfields , slaughters the locals , and disappears into the night . " The Night Flier " is one of those pleasant surprises that can come by now and again . As far as adaptations of Stephen King works go , it has to rank as one of the better ones . It has an overwhelming amount of sinister atmosphere ; as the foul-mouthed , antagonistic , and incredibly cynical Dees stubbornly pursues his story , and the story progresses , it maintains an unpleasant and uneasy feeling . It really kicks into another gear for a fabulous climax and ultimate confrontation at an airport . Up until then , we've never really seen our murderer ( with the delightful moniker of " Dwight Renfield " ) ; it's been entirely the reporters ' story . And when we see him , we might very well wish we hadn't . This frightening and at the same mesmerizing villain is the flat-out ugliest vampire I've seen since Max Schreck . The talented Ferrer is highly adept at playing a character that's compelling and interesting to watch no matter how unlikable he can be . ( Kings ' loyal fans will know that the character of Dees made a brief appearance in the novel " The Dead Zone " . ) Julie Entwisle is a cute and appealing co-star as the new reporter at the mag who's all too eager to make a name for herself . Dan Monahan ( whom folks may remember from the " Porky's " comedy series of the 80's ) is very funny as the unapologetically sleazy boss at the rag , and Michael H . Moss , actually a very handsome man underneath his heavy make-up , does a bang-up job as Renfield . Director Mark Pavia , hired for this gig due to Kings ' enjoyment of his short film " Drag " , successfully drew me in and did an admirable job of slowly but deliberately edging this film along towards its dark conclusion . K . N . B . deliver some very impressive splatter , not to mention Renfields ' memorable visage . Best of all is that wonderfully nasty and creepy finale , drenched in blood , shrouded in mist , even switching to black and white at one point and taking on the true tones of a nightmare . The idea of having such an anti-heroic lead character is a good change of pace from movie conventions ; in the end , the parallel between the self-serving and heartless S . O . B . Dees and the savage and sinister Renfield becomes all too clear . It's a good , solid spook show that's worth catching .
A very nice take on werewolf tales ; gimmicky and fun .	Tom Newcliffe ( the distinguished Calvin Lockhart ) is a rich man and successful hunter who wants to bag himself the ultimate game : a werewolf . He invites several guests to his isolated mansion , which has been fitted with all manner of surveillance equipment , intending to put his guests through various tests to prove who is the werewolf . Solid entertainment benefits from a hammy but entertaining ( and certainly not dull ) performance from Lockhart , and fine work by a superior supporting cast . Genre stalwart Peter Cushing is his usual understated self as a werewolf expert ; Charles Gray ( " Diamonds Are Forever " , " The Rocky Horror Picture Show " ) , Anton Diffring , Ciaran Madden , Marlene Clark , Tom Chadbon , and a younger Michael Gambon ( who went on to replace Richard Harris as Dumbledore in the " Harry Potter " films ) each has time to make an impression . A skillful nod to the blaxploitation era ( after the success of the black-themed horror hit " Blacula " , the producers brought Lockhart in to replace original star Robert Quarry ) , with an appropriate , fantastic music score by Douglas Gamley , with a generous dose of good old-fashioned horror . In a radical departure from having human actors portray werewolves in film , the werewolf here is actually played by a made-up Alsatian dog , which makes for an interesting novelty . The movie's major draw is its " Ten Little Indians " / William Castle style gimmick of taking a thirty second " werewolf break " to allow the audience to guess for themselves who the werewolf is , based on whatever clues that they are able to gather . But this movie isn't just about a clever gimmick . It's a solid little horror film , subtle , capably paced , and reasonably suspenseful . All in all , I found it a lot of fun to watch .
" Tomorrow we're having you for lunch ! "	This film certainly makes good on the promise of its title ! Nasty alien invaders have come to Earth , and as this film opens , have already infested a small town . Their goal is to turn people into the latest intergalactic meal . But they didn't count on the rough and ready team of government agents that are out to eliminate them ! This early effort from Peter Jackson sure bends over backwards to be sick and disgusting , but because it's so absurd and over-the-top , it's downright hilarious ! I felt that it dragged a bit during the first half , but it definitely picks up for a show-stopping second half . Some of the jokes work extremely well , especially the plight of Derek as the film goes on ( poor guy just can't catch a break ) . One of the best jokes , far and away , is saved for right near the end . Seeing cardboard cutouts of the Beatles inside the car was hysterically funny ( especially the expression on Paul's face , which comes in handy after one fountain of gore ) . Jackson wore a lot of hats here : writer , producer , director , actor ( he plays both Derek and Robert ) , editor , and cinematographer , plus he did the special and makeup effects ! He and his cast of friends ( Terry Potter , Pete O'Herne , Craig Smith , and Mike Minett ) perform their material with gusto . They're all engaging , but Doug Wren is particularly enjoyable in the role of Lord Crumb , the alien leader . The makeup effects are fun , some of the camera work is very much in the style of " The Evil Dead " , and Michelle Scullion's rocking music score is a blast to listen to . Overall , " Bad Taste " sizes up as a good dose of frenzied , cartoon-like , gory mayhem .
Exciting and visually impressive 50's sci-fi .	Aliens come to Earth with the intention of taking over , trusting that humans will surrender peacefully . When they are met with the expected barrage of gunfire ( an earlier attempt at communication had been unsuccessful ) , the aliens change tactics promptly , attacking en masse . It's up to granite-jawed heroic scientist Russell Marvin ( Hugh Marlowe ) to help the military save the day . As one might expect , it's the special effects of legendary stop-motion master Ray Harryhausen that take center stage . He pulls off some great scenes here , especially the destruction of real-life monuments for the rousing finish . The nighttime sequence is also quite well done . Even working against the constraints of a low budget , Mr . Harryhausen delivers the goods . The withered , leathery look of the aliens ( we get to see one unmasked very briefly ) is another striking plus . Directed with typical efficiency by Fred F . Sears , an extremely prolific B director of the era , the movie edgily and steadily moves towards the inevitable final confrontation . There's much exposition to deliver - as was common for these movies , there's an ever-present narrator to explain everything to us , with much technical detail for us to digest . Filled with actors who were commonly seen in the 50's low-budget efforts - ever-present Morris Ankrum , Donald Curtis ( who also acted in the earlier Harryhausen - Charles H . Schneer production " It Came from Beneath the Sea " ) , Tom Browne Henry , Larry Blake , Harry Lauter , the acting in the movie is , I believe , perfectly acceptable , with the great voice-over artist Paul Frees providing the voice of the creatures ( as well as doing the narration ) . I was intrigued by the method employed by the aliens at one point : they cause an explosion on the surface of the sun , which causes extreme weather to occur back on Earth . Too bad this concept couldn't have been exploited a little more , but I understand the need to keep the pacing of the film consistent , as the movie is definitely picking up steam by this point . " Earth vs . the Flying Saucers " is an energetic and engaging movie that can easily stand alongside the earlier " War of the Worlds " as one of the more exciting sci-fi movies of the decade . It really is a great deal of fun .
An absolutely great comedy .	Sacha Baron Cohen keeps character comedy alive with this feature film vehicle for his irrepressible Kazakhstani reporter . Borat is sent to The U . S . and A . to examine its culture in the hopes of solving his own country's problems . He discovers actress Pamela Anderson through his first viewing of ' Baywatch ' , and , now obsessed with her , he travels cross country to meet her . As he travels with producer Azamat ( Ken Davitian , a great foil for the star ) , he is exposed to a wide variety of Americans , each with their own clearly defined views . It's so easy to guffaw long and hard at Cohen's flair for outrageous lowbrow humor . The fight scene is far and away the most hysterical set piece . The character of Borat is engaging and watching him stumble his way through understanding various lessons - whether he's getting coaching in humor , etiquette , or driving - is hard to resist . Cohen plays this role for all he's worth . It's also quite interesting to see a comedy that so vividly captures various prejudices and perceptions and makes them such an integral part of its presentation . It also works in the classic tradition of a foreigner struggling to come to grips with American society , in many of its variations . Borat interacts with country folk , the gay community , frat boys , and Christian churchgoers and makes these situations all rather fresh . Director Larry Charles keeps it all moving along very nicely , with a satisfying wrap-up . The documentary style approach works well , and seeing ordinary people as opposed to actors is also highly welcome . I haven't seen anything quite like this before . Unpredictable , wild , and undeniably hilarious , it's one of the best comedies that I've seen in the last several years .
" Long live the new flesh . "	James Woods plays Max Renn , a programmer of pirated cable TV that shows things ranging from soft-core porno to hard-core violence . He finds out about a bizarre piece of snuff TV called " Videodrome " that wallows in depravity by showing torture and murder non-stop . The REAL down side to this program is that it causes hallucinations , and alters human bodies in disgusting ways . An earlier David Cronenberg venture into typically creepy , intense territory , enhanced by some good performances ( especially from Woods ) and another good Howard Shore music score . It doesn't do too badly as a statement on the effect of television and other media on human lives ( going so far as to say that they actually change us in physical ways ) . Best of all are Rick Baker's eye-catching visual and makeup effects - sometimes really gruesome , but pulled off really well ( I love the pulsating TV and videotape , and the gun that fuses itself into Woods ' hand and arm . Biggest highlight is a graphic death scene ) . " Videodrome " probably won't become one of my favorite Cronenberg films , but I think that it's just fine and I had a good time watching it . Not exactly a favorite of the critics , but that's fine by me . I know what I like , and I happen to like " Videodrome " .
One Of The Better Pictures of 2000 .	Fielding Pierce ( Billy Crudup ) has dedicated his life to public service ; his biggest problem is the lingering memory of Sarah Williams ( Jennifer Connelly ) , the great love of his life , who died in a car bombing in the seventies . It is his memories of Sarah that cause him emotional torment that proves next to impossible to endure . Moving back and forth in time between the early & mid-1970's and the early 1980's , this nicely handled movie has its share of boring stretches but it is so heartbreakingly emotional that I ended up liking it . Best of all are the impassioned performances of leads Crudup and Connelly , who both get quite a showcase . ( This was easily Connelly's best pre - " A Beautiful Mind " role . ) The supporting actors are good , but their roles are mostly small ones . I do wish that Sandra Oh could have had more to do - playing Kim , the girlfriend of Fielding's brother Danny ( Paul Hipp ) , she has no more than a couple of lines . Then again , I know her character isn't integral to the main plotline . Too bad . Overall , a good job . I think I'll give this one .
I am here to critique the devil's work . . .	Original " House of 1 , 000 Corpses " characters Otis ( Bill Moseley ) and Baby ( Sheri Moon Zombie ) manage to escape when a raid is staged on their farmhouse ; they take it on the lam with Captain Spaulding ( Sid Haig ) while being pursued by Sheriff John Wydell ( William Forsythe ) , who isn't all that different from them . Foregoing the comedic , haunted house fun ride that was " House of 1 , 000 Corpses " , writer-director Rob Zombie gets ambitious here , crafting a 1970's era exploitation throwback that admittedly does get very depraved and nasty at times but delivers on more than just a visceral level . For one thing , there are no clear definitions of good and evil - Sheriff Wydell purports to be on the side of God but is willing to cross the line and not just seek justice but revenge , and the Firefly / Driftwood clan may be a savage bunch , but darn it , they genuinely love each other . Zombie peppers this thoughtful , heartfelt film that offers plenty of splatter for those who want it , but also gives us some affecting , even poetic moments , a lot of great 1970's era Southern rock , great acting by the core group of actors who easily give it 100 % , tons of nifty B-movie cameos ( for example - P . J . Soles , Deborah Van Valkenburgh , Michael Berryman , and Mary Woronov ) , and some welcome humor ( one example being Spaulding's first scene in the film ) . One other interesting note is seeing Leslie Easterbrook - previously best known for her portrayal of Callahan in the " Police Academy " comedy series - take over from Karen Black as Mother Firefly and do a creditable job . Overall , " The Devil's Rejects " is a good step up for Zombie , who shows that he does indeed have potential to be a force to be reckoned with in the horror community . A nice surprise , and an entertaining , down an ' dirty , lean an ' mean horror film . Like anyone will tell you , it's definitely not for all tastes , but those with the stomach for it may find it definitely worth catching .
An impressive entry in the " killer kid ( s ) " sub-genre of horror .	Our film here begins with an excellently staged , catastrophic van accident that sees the five juvenile passengers walk away unharmed . They make their way to the local lodge where cranky , tyrannical " Papa Doc " ( Gene Evans ) is clearly running the show . The largely unsympathetic adults are slow to realize the true nature of the nasty little brats ; by the time they do , it's definitely too late . While a little light on exploitative ingredients ( there's a cat-fight near the beginning that amusingly looks as if no-one's heart was in it , and doses of sex and nudity are brief ) , " Devil Times Five " is a low-key , character-driven , and moody little piece . It gets a lot of mileage out of the fact that adults can't often believe that children ( particularly ones as angelic looking as some of these kids are ) could turn out to be cold-blooded , calculating sociopaths . Those viewers who might be frustrated with the ambitious , nuanced approach to the material for the first two thirds are sure to find their patience rewarded with the climax as the children find creative ways to dispatch their victims . We know as soon as we see that Papa Doc has piranhas for pets ( ! ) that they're bound to turn up later , and so they do . Bear traps , axes , spears , and the proved combo of gasoline & matches will all play a part . The fact that these are children is always maintained . These aren't adults-in-kids'-clothing , they truly act their age , although one odd and interesting touch has one of the tykes always playing the part of a novice nun . Their ghoulish playfulness is underscored by the music , which takes a more upbeat approach as the film goes on . The wintry mountain setting works out well , the color red becomes something of a motif , and the acting is for the most part quite good . Evans walks away with his scenes , although Sorrell Booke ( best known for the role of Boss Hogg on ' The Dukes of Hazzard ' ) , Joan McCall ( " Grizzly " ) , and Shelley Morrison ( ' Will & Grace ' ) are also worth watching . The kids , including teen heartthrob Leif Garrett , certainly look like they're having fun . For anyone who likes " killer kid ( s ) " flicks , this one is worth checking out .
Pretty good post-apocalypse fare .	Set in a war-ravaged world of the future in which oil is a precious commodity , a savage villain named Col . Straker ( James Wainwright ) seeks to be in control . His daughter Corlie ( Annie McEnroe ) , who wants nothing to do with him , breaks free and hooks up with lone wolf Hunter ( Michael Beck ) . He brings her to a peaceful community run by Rusty ( John Ratzenberger ) , but Straker finds the place , and determined to get his daughter back , declares war on everyone that gets in his way . A low-budget " Mad Max " variation made in New Zealand , this gets off to a good , sober start punctuated by good visuals . In fact , the whole movie has a great feeling of hope in the face of despair . The material is taken very seriously ; there's not much in the way of humor at all . Chris Menges does the impressive cinematography and Kevin Peek supplies a nicely moody and downbeat music score . Co-writer / director Harley Cokliss has a nice touch with action scenes ; the movie is reasonably exciting at times . The desolate landscapes are utilized to particularly great effect . Beck is a low-key but efficient hero and McEnroe affecting ( although I think she'll struck some viewers as being pretty whiny ) as the damsel-in-distress . Good supporting performances by Ratzenberger , Bruno Lawrence , John Bach , and Randy Powell also help , but Wainwright steals the show as a psycho who never leaves you in doubt as to his sinister intent . That brings me to perhaps the true star of the movie , Strakers ' imposing " battletruck " , a very cool and memorable vehicle indeed . It figures in some great scenes including the decent climax . " Warlords of the 21st Century " is just fine of its type , and worth catching for fans of the post-apocalypse genre .
Memorable Viewing .	In one of his signature roles , Charles Bronson plays Paul Kersey , a liberal-minded man who has a major change of heart after his wife and daughter are savagely assaulted . His wife dies , and his daughter becomes a near-comatose basket case . He then feels motivated to stalk the streets of NYC looking for criminals to execute . This is a gripping and thought-provoking little piece of work , and it makes a memorable impact . Well-cast and well-acted , I think this is the picture ( although I can't presume to say for sure ) that made " Angry - Vigilante - Gets - Bloody - Revenge - For - The - Death - Of - Loved Ones " urban thrillers popular . Effectively sensational , although it is also clearly manipulative . Some of you , however , could see it as being racist , as most of Kersey's victims happen to be black . Short and sweet , the film does not overstay its welcome . At the very least , I hear that it's supposed to be a better picture than the low-grade sequels that it spawned . Spot the future star time : Jeff Goldblum , 19 or 20 years old at the time , plays one of the degenerates who attack the wife and daughter . Olympia Dukakis , Best Supporting Actress winner for " Moonstruck " , plays a cop at a precinct . Christopher Guest , the comic actor / writer / director whose credits include " This Is Spinal Tap " , " Waiting For Guffman " , " Best In Show " , and " A Mighty Wind " plays a young patrolman who appears late in the film . I liked it and I gave it .
This playfully macabre movie is a real hoot .	In this combination of old-time movie serial and Gothic horror , inspired by Poes ' " Pit and the Pendulum " , evil Count Regula ( Christopher Lee , wonderful as always ) is drawn and quartered after having murdered a dozen virgins . 35 years later , two acquaintances , Roger Mont Elise ( former Tarzan performer Lex Barker , stoic and rugged but pretty darn stiff ) and Baroness Lilian von Brabant ( ravishing Karin Dor ) are invited to the castle where Regula performed his nefarious deeds . It seems that the Count has been consumed with the idea of vengeance all of this time and has figured how to cheat death . . . and he's out to punish Roger and Lilian mightily . This is a delightfully flamboyant horror movie that works because it has a not-too-serious approach that is quite amusing ( this whole idea was reinforced for me by the music , decidedly silly at times ) . It's lively , with director Harald Reinl maintaining a consistent pace and flair and delivering a solid climax full of tense moments . It's also pretty humorous : Vladimir Medar is the broad comedy relief as Pater Fabian , although Carl Lange does even better as henchman Anathol , stealing every scene that he's in . Atmosphere is also quite respectable ; no assessment of this picture would be complete without praise for the marvelous art direction-set decoration & cinematography and use of locations ; there's a real period feel at all times . The use of color is just great and the Hieronymous Bosch paintings are impressively twisted . All in all , the whole movie is a real visual treat . Entertaining from beginning to end , this is something I wouldn't hesitate to recommend to horror buffs everywhere .
An endearing , classic example of low-budget sci-fi .	The late , iconic , and " cool " movie star Steve McQueen ( billed here as " Steven " for the only time in his career ) plays earnest lead Steve Andrews in this likable 1950's sci-fi favorite , in which a pulpy mass from outer space crashes to earth and immediately starts devouring any human it comes into contact with . It's up to Steve and girlfriend Jane ( Aneta Corseaut ) to rally the townsfolk ( starting with his good buddies Tony , Mooch , and Al ) and save the day . Performed and executed with ingratiating sincerity , " The Blob " gets off to a goofy start with the catchy opening credits ditty composed by a young Burt Bacharach . We can already tell that we're in for a good time , and that's exactly what this movie delivers . Even the obligatory scene in movies of this kind where the hero or heroes have to convince the skeptical local police force that there is a danger , it's actually amusing to watch knowing that this kind of scene certainly couldn't have been as much of a cliché back then . That's also the case with the discovery of the menace by the obligatory first victim , played here by Olin Howlin , who was at this point a veteran with many film appearances under his belt dating all the way back to the silent era . It's a pleasure to see such a great character face in a small role ; in fact , director Irvin S . Yeaworth Jr . tried to go for performers who had at least familiar faces even if they weren't " name " performers . The low , low-grade special effects , which would spell disaster for some movies , are actually part of the appeal here . The oozing , slimy , disgusting creature was original for its time - no face , no appendages , no set shape to it - and it's virtually impossible to kill - all anyone can do is contain it . It was a cool idea then and it's a cool idea now . The far more technically glossy remake of 1988 is I think a fine movie in its own right , but it does owe a lot to this movie , copying themes and images ( like that great shot of the blob preparing to engulf the theater ) with respectful devotion . The characters here are often believable and not one-dimensional , and the acting really isn't all that bad . My only regret is having been born a few decades too late ; had this movie been a part of my childhood or young adulthood , I'd probably appreciate it even more . It's a great capsule of 1950's small-town America and the comparative quaintness of the time . One of the most enjoyable aspects is the " Thing from Another World " style ending ; I'll say no more , but if you've seen that other movie , you'll know what I'm talking about . This movie for me is just plain fun . It's a must see for anyone who enjoys 1950's era genre fare .
Engrossing , solid mystery .	Harry Angel ( Mickey Rourke ) is a low-rent NYC private eye hired by mystery man Louis Cyphre ( Robert De Niro ) to locate " Johnny Favorite " , a pre-war crooner who's dropped out of sight . Harry's search will take him to various NYC and New Orleans locations , and involve the practice of voodoo . While I have to admit to the knowledge of this film's big twist prior to my viewing , it didn't really detract from my overall enjoyment of the picture . Based on the novel " Fallen Angel " by William Hjortsberg , it's a very interesting and compelling story , quite watchable throughout . Director Alan Parker creates some truly creepy imagery , as well as a potent feeling of dread . He slowly but steadily guides us on a journey where we can be sure that whatever Harry uncovers , it's not going to be pleasant . Its twists and turns are a good deal of fun , and the atmosphere of both NYC and New Orleans in 1955 is well realized on screen . In fact , the overall effect of " Angel Heart " is a rather disturbing one , considering one of the twists . There's also a very somber inevitability to the film , and a message about how we can be living a lie and not willing to admit it . Rourke is very good in his star turn , especially as the film progresses . De Niro offers a marvelously subtle , cagey portrayal of evil in human form . Lisa Bonet is quite striking in the key supporting role of Epiphany , with Charlotte Rampling equally as alluring as the black - magic obsessed Margaret . Familiar actors in small parts include Michael Higgins , Kathleen Wilhoite , Pruitt Taylor Vince , and Dann Florek of ' Law and Order : SVU ' fame . " Angel Heart " is recommended viewing for anyone who likes a good mystery .
" Who's going to believe a talking head ? Get a job in a sideshow . "	Stuart Gordon made his energetic film-making debut with this loose but wildly entertaining adaptation of the H . P . Lovecraft short story , " Herbert West : Re-Animator " . In so doing , he effectively began an impressive directing career with several more Lovecraft adaptations to come . It also marked Jeffrey Combs , in his first substantial film part , as a cult star in the making . Few films have blended graphic horror and farcical dark comedy as well as this film has . It introduces Combs as the character of West , with radical ideas and ambitions . He's developed a glowing green liquid he's dubbed " Re-Agent " that can re-animate dead bodies . He arrives at Miskatonic Medical School where he promptly becomes room-mates with Dan Cain ( Bruce Abbott , a great foil for the manic Combs ) and draws the promising young doctor into his plans . Things go awry when West makes his first experiments on humans . Pompous Dr . Carl Hill ( a wonderful David Gale ) , Meg ( luscious Barbara Crampton , who gets to show off her body on more than one occasion ) , whom Dan is dating , and Meg's father ( Robert Sampson ) , the dean of the school , all become a part of the mayhem . While I shouldn't be giving away too much so first-time viewers can properly appreciate it , this film delivers some memorable highlights . Chief among them is something so delightfully perverse ( involving a severed head ) that it becomes , far and away , the best part of the film . Gordon blends shocks and sick humor with the excellent carnage supplied by Anthony Doublin , John Naulin , and John Carl Buechler's Magical Media Industries . Richard Band's music score , if admittedly highly reminiscent of Bernard Herrmann's legendary " Psycho " soundtrack , is fun . The great art director Robert A . Burns and cinematographer Mac Ahlberg are also part of the assemblage of sterling behind-the-scenes talent . The cast is most enjoyable , with both Combs and Gale providing quite adept at dominating their scenes . Abbott does a good job of balancing the outrageousness of the story with an understandable level of disbelief and dismay . Crampton is adorable as the concerned Meg , and Sampson is incredible as he makes the transition from uptight suit while alive to mindless zombie after re-animation . Gordon's wife Carolyn makes the first of her performances in her husband's films , and other Gordon regulars like Ian Patrick Williams and Bunny Summers also appear . " Re-Animator " is terrifically entertaining and recommended viewing for horror fans . It has a grabber of an opening , and maintains a skewed sensibility until its crazed conclusion . Scripted by Gordon , Dennis Paoli , and William J . Norris , and followed by " Bride of Re - Animator " in 1990 and " Beyond Re-Animator " in
Tons of fun for the die-hard horror fan .	Reminiscent of the 1986 cult favorite " Night of the Creeps " , this lively genre flick gives us a story of a meteorite that crashes to earth outside the small town of Wheelsy . Almost immediately , it lets loose a gross little alien that makes a home inside local rich man Grant Grant ( Michael Rooker ) , who slowly metamorphoses as he feeds relentlessly on the local animal population and turns all the townsfolk into zombies . The directing debut for screenwriter James Gunn ( " Tromeo and Juliet " , " Scooby-Doo " 1 and 2 , and the " Dawn of the Dead " remake ) , " Slither " is an affectionate homage to and send-up of horror films . Written with a lot of humor by an obvious fan of the genre , us loyal horror junkies should be able to pick up on all of his in-jokes . In fact , this movie does quite a good job of balancing the shocks with the guffaws . It's even got some good suspense , to boot . The actors are most enjoyable , with two veterans standing out for me : good sport Michael Rooker , who , as the film progresses , is buried under varying stages of makeup , and Gregg Henry , in a broad , silly , laugh-out-loud performance , although top-billed Nathan Fillion is a pretty laid-back , engaging enough lead , and co-star Elizabeth Banks is both gorgeous and appealing as the victim-turned-heroine . Although the film is a little slow to start , once it kicks into gear I think it's just a total gas . The creature effects impressed me very much ; the final appearance of the Grant monster is truly a sight to behold , and the slugs are nice and slimy . In fact , this film is just bursting to the seams with ooey , gooey gore ; it's a delight to watch in that respect . Writer / director Gunn gives his old boss Lloyd Kaufman of the Troma company a cameo , and Rob Zombie can be heard in a phone conversation . Gunn also casts his wife , Jenna Fischer of the TV hit ' The Office ' , in a small role . Anything . . . and anyone . . . can be a victim in this film . It was very interesting to see such an anything-goes attitude , I must say . Any self-respecting horror fan is advised to check this out if you haven't already . Yeah , I thought it was that good .
Are Some Things Inevitable ?	This was written by an actual teacher ! Dedicated NYC teacher Trevor Garfield ( Samuel L . Jackson ) is stabbed by a student and ends up relocating to LA . However , his problems are not over ; he still has too many disruptive , hostile youngsters in his class . While he attempts a relationship with fellow teacher Ellen Henry ( Kelly Rowan ) , he is forced to confront the worst miscreants in his class ( Clifton Collins , Jr . ( aka Clifton Gonzalez Gonzalez ) , Lobo Sebastian , Jonah Rooney ) . I loved this movie ; I just thought it was so compelling . It was topical and interesting throughout . Cast is excellent , especially the always first-rate Jackson . I'd be hard-pressed to find the flaws with this film , although I must say that the switch in Garfield's personality seems sort of sudden . Talk about being typecast : Karina Arroyave , who plays Rita , was also cast in two other " Dedicated Teacher " movies - " Lean On Me " and " Dangerous Minds " - as troubled teenage girls . I also like the film for not being ENTIRELY predictable . Most of the time , it really hurts a movie if you can automatically guess what will happen at various stages in the movie . There was ONE incredibly predictable event in the movie , however , and for that I am disgusted . Overall , I think that it is quite potent ( if not original ) and excellent . My vote is for .
Rightfully regarded as a true horror masterpiece .	One of the ultimate cautionary mad scientist tales of all time , Mary Shelleys ' legendary story received this extremely memorable film adaptation in 1931 , courtesy of the highly esteemed director James Whale . Anyone familiar with this story ( and how many people are not ? ) will not need me to summarize it , but the tale of the much-too-ambitious Henry Frankenstein ( Colin Clive , in a wonderfully florid performance ) contriving his own inhuman being ( Boris Karloff in the signature role of his career ) in his windmill laboratory has proved to still have much life in it all these years later . I'm hardly qualified to go into an in-depth analysis of this cinema classic , but I'll do my best to state what I think makes it work so well . Even with the obvious absence of a music score ( it's solely confined to the opening and closing credits ) , atmosphere is established quickly ( the opening graveside sequence looks magnificent ) and maintained . Director Whales ' meticulous direction and attention to detail pay off well ; the Gothic look is impressive thanks to the art direction of Charles D . Hall and cinematography of Arthur Edeson . Overall , it's good storytelling and the images captured on film remain indelibly etched in peoples ' memories . The soft-spoken and cultured Karloff became a star due to his expressive and heartfelt performance of a misunderstood creature of no genuine ill intent ( much like another tragic monster in the form of The Wolf Man ) . Ultimately , that is a large part of why this story resonates so strongly : we pity the monster as much as we are intimidated by him . The Jack Pierce makeup also helped tremendously in giving us the definitive screen appearance of The Frankenstein Monster . American actors Mae Clarke and John Boles do fine in support , despite being rather outshone by their co-stars . Edward Van Sloan and Dwight Frye , who had just appeared in the other Universal horror classic of 1931 , " Dracula " , as Van Helsing and Renfield , make very welcome appearances as Dr . Waldman ( the moral center of the film ) and Fritz ( the scuzzy , mean-spirited hunchbacked assistant to Henry ) . While in this day and age it doesn't pack as much of a punch as it would have back in the 1930's , it's still an interesting and thoughtful story and is worthy of a great deal of respect , especially considering its continuing influence . Always worth seeing , and appreciating .
He said he'd be back .	Once again , the machines of the future are determined to get rid of their nemesis , John Connor . This time , they send a killer cyborg back to 1991 L . A . , to kill the young John . As before , the resistance is able to send a protector back in time as well . . . Doesn't have quite the same impact as the first film , but as a no-holds-barred science-fiction / action film , it's definitely above average , with great chases , an incredible amount of gunfire , a fine cast , and some very impressive special effects . Does go on pretty long ( I watched a special edition of the film that runs over two hours and a half ) but that's a minor quibble . Once again , it's a pleasure to watch the work of a film-maker who clearly knows what he's doing . Some directors are just hacks who don't have the style or talent to bring any sort of quality to their films . . . at least James Cameron isn't like that . You also get new Arnold one-liners for your amusement . . . . and hasta la vista , baby !
McDowell and Warner make for great adversaries .	Wonderful time travel story , beginning in London in 1893 , in which legendary author H . G . Wells ( Malcolm McDowell ) actually devises his own time machine . However , it's not long before one of his own colleagues , John Lesley Stevenson ( David Warner ) is revealed to be none other than Jack the Ripper himself , and just as the authorities try to apprehend Stevenson , he's used the time machine to his own advantage . He escapes into 1979 San Francisco with Wells hot on his trail . While Wells has a hard time adjusting to a world far removed from the " utopia " he had envisioned long ago , Stevenson has an all too easy time of it . This world in which violence now reigns supreme agrees with him . " 90 years ago I was a freak . . . now I'm an amateur . " he declares . Amidst his own desperate attempts to apprehend Stevenson , Wells finds the time to romance modern American woman Amy Robbins ( Mary Steenburgen ) . Part thriller , part sci-fi , part romance , and also part travelogue of San Francisco , " Time After Time " is a solidly entertaining movie , scripted by director Nicholas Meyer from a story by Karl Alexander and Steve Hayes . It's a great premise , and Meyer mines the story for all the chills , drama , and comedy that he can . Particularly funny is watching Wells try to comprehend the modern age , from ordering a meal at McDonald's to discovering television . The movie begins on an impressively ominous and atmospheric note , and in light of the breaks for the romance and the fish-out-of-water comedy and the like , the reality of the danger that Stevenson represents is still quite vivid . Meyer creates some undeniable tension and the story also allows for some neat twists . The special effects are good as well . The actors are all excellent : McDowell is splendidly endearing and sincere in one of his rare heroic roles , Warner exudes prime malevolence , and Steenburgen is very cute and appealing . ( It's worth noting that after this she and McDowell were married for about 10 years , and had two children together . ) Charles Cioffi is good in support as a detective who's of course completely dismissive of Wells ' outlandish story , with small parts played by Patti D'Arbanville , Joseph Maher , Jim Haynie , Corey Feldman , and Shelley Hack . " Time After Time " is a likable , imaginative movie and makes for ideal escapist fare .
A magical Southern fantasy .	This movie deals with characters who make a serious business of " defying the devil " , or standing up to evil in any form that it might take . One such person is John ( Hedges Capers ) , who picks up where his beloved grandpappy ( Denver Pyle ) left off . He embarks on an incredible journey full of offbeat and sometimes horrific encounters , often playing his guitar as he walks on . This was derived from a book titled " Who Fears the Devil ? " by Manly Wade Wellman , who adapted several real life folk tales that he heard . It's a highly intriguing story the likes of which I haven't quite seen on film before . It's refreshingly unpredictable from one moment to the next . It gets a lot out of its Appalachian locale ; the atmosphere is quite heavy and the settings are extremely well shot . The very colorful cast of characters are brought to life by a marvelous cast also including Severn Darden ( playing a truly interesting part ) , Harris Yulin , R . G . Armstrong , Sidney Clute , Val Avery , Percy Rodrigues , Susan Strasberg , and Sharon Henesy . Capers also composed some of the songs , as did the late , great Hoyt Axton ; these songs are spirited and infectious . The special effects are crude but tolerable , the pacing consistently slow but steady , and the movie overall rates as a uniquely strange and flavorful experience that I would say deserves its cult following . It's certainly motivated me to check out the authors ' works , which is a good thing for any adaptation .
The night has its price , alright .	A nice little vampire tale of innocent , young good ol ' boy Caleb ( Adrian Pasdar of ' Mysterious Ways ' and ' Heroes ' ) picks the wrong girl , Mae ( Jenny Wright ) , on which to get hung up . She bites him without feeding on him , thereby turning him . Caleb is then snatched by Mae's associates , most played by " Aliens " co-stars : Lance Henriksen as Jesse , Bill Paxton as Severen and Jenette Goldstein as Diamondback , and given a short amount of time to prove that he can be one of them . Caleb's problem is that , being a basically decent person , he can't bring himself to kill anyone . In her first solo directing effort ( she'd debuted as co-director of a biker flick called " The Loveless " , starring Willem Dafoe ) , Kathryn Bigelow guides the film with efficiency . " Near Dark " is stark , moody , offbeat , and stylish , with some striking shots and nice blue-hued cinematography . It refrains from most of the trappings of vampire lore , creating its own unique spin on the genre . Despite being released around the same time as " The Lost Boys " , this is more interesting overall . While I also like that other film , it does not age as well , being firmly rooted in the 1980's , MTV-friendly , and trendy . " Near Dark " proves to be the more memorable , and menacing , of the two films . Pasdar is likable in the lead , likable enough to have me caring about what happened to him . The same goes for Wright , who conveys a certain sadness about the life she is forced to lead . Henriksen projects typical effortless intensity and charisma , Goldstein is sassy and sexy , and Paxton is a nice big slice of ham . Joshua Miller is also noteworthy as an aged vampire trapped in a child's body . Marcie Leeds is cute as Caleb's younger sister , and B-movie favorite Tim Thomerson an irresistible presence as Caleb's loving dad . Familiar faces in small roles include James LeGros , Theresa Randle , and Roger Aaron Brown . The film is further enhanced by a typically haunting and melodic electronic score by the always reliable Tangerine Dream , who contributed some of the best scores of that kind for 1980's films . The special effects makeup by Gordon Smith is yet another asset . Overall , there is much to recommend about " Near Dark " . Whether you discover it for the first time or are viewing it again , the time spent watching it is time well spent .
Bob Clark did some fine work in the horror genre during the 70's .	" Deathdream " , a . k . a . " Dead of Night " , is a powerfully affecting and dramatic horror story , one of the earliest to show the effects of the Vietnam War on both the soldiers and the people back home . Charlie ( John Marley ) is a WWII veteran and he , wife Christine ( Lynn Carlin ) and daughter Cathy ( Anya Ormsby ) receive the news that loved ones of soldiers always dread the most : their son Andy ( Richard Backus ) has been killed in action . So they're understandably quite shocked when he turns up in their house , supposedly live and well . But he's a completely different person now ; Charlie realizes it , but Christine is in denial . This may be one of the most emotionally devastating zombie films ever made . Producer / director Bob Clark makes good use of the sensitive screenplay by frequent collaborator Alan Ormsby , a variation on the story of " The Monkey's Paw " . It's one of those rare horror movies that carries with it an air of sadness as palpable as its blatantly ominous mood . It gets off to a chilling start and has some genuinely scary scenes . It promises horrible things to come and delivers them with complete conviction . The scares are all enhanced by an evocatively creepy soundtrack including eerie music by Carl Zittrer . It features restrained but still effective use of gore and a neat makeup job on Andy that only slowly builds during the film . Tom Savini was the makeup artist ( with Alan Ormsby also fulfilling makeup duties , albeit uncredited ) , in one of his very first gigs , and does typically good work . Best of all , it really allows the actors a chance to shine . Marley and Carlin are both sympathetic as the father perturbed by his son's strange behavior and the mother determined to remain loving and loyal to the bitter end . Anya Ormsby is likewise endearing as the sweet sister . And Henderson Forsythe offers solid support as the concerned local doctor . " Deathdream " is the kind of film by which it's hard not to be affected . It's a heartfelt and tragic story that resonates long after it's over .
A funny and sleazy delight .	Private eye Jack Chandler ( Jay Richardson ) takes the case of a missing blonde named Samantha ( Linnea Quigley ) and runs afoul of the title characters , who prove to be just as deadly ( and campy ) as they are sexy , in this outrageously fun B gem from Fred Olen Ray . To start with , I loved the way that Ray and company spoofed film noir . Chandlers ' narration is hilarious ; Richardson is quite engaging in the role . There's an assortment of very sexy ladies on display , also including Dawn Wildsmith , Michelle Bauer , Esther Elise , and Tricia Burns . Bauer does a great striptease to an Elvis Presley tune , and Quigley performs the memorable " Virgin Dance of the Double Chainsaws " . As befitting a movie with a chainsaw theme , the presence of Gunnar Hansen as a cult leader is most appropriate . He makes for a fun villain . Overall , this shamelessly tacky ( the gore is of the very silly variety ) low-budget movie revels in low-brow , impossible to resist shenanigans . The boobs ' n ' blood formula results in 75 minutes of completely unpretentious entertainment . The movies ' heavy dose of humor shows that no-one is taking it seriously , and this ultimately plays a big part in why this movie is as much fun as it is . Cool soundtrack , too . " Hollywood Chainsaw Hookers " is a truly offbeat and disarming charmer .
An even better slice of pie .	Jim , Oz , Kev , Finch , and Stifler reunite after their first year of college , and rent a lake shore home for the summer , hoping to make it a summer that they'll never forget . Predictably outrageous things happen . I definitely liked this ; one of those rare instances where I like the sequel even more than the original . It's longer than the first one , has more of a plot , and even gets serious towards the end . What I like about it are its moments of pure , inspired insanity . I was laughing loud at some points in the film . ( Take my advice and see the unrated version if you're able . ) Seann William Scott is a riot as Stifler , and Eugene Levy is once again a scene stealer as Jim's incredibly understanding dad . And , best of all , the entire main cast from the original is brought back for this one , and they still make it work .
" You're one ugly . . . . . . . . . . . . "	Dutch Schaefer ( Arnold Schwarzenegger ) and his elite military rescue unit undertake a dangerous mission in South America and end up being pursued by a hostile , unseen enemy that is hunting and killing them purely for the sport of it . A knockout of a movie - one of AH-NULD's best . It is both an aggressively violent and genuinely tense , suspenseful combination of science-fiction and action . Entertaining throughout , with good supporting cast , great Alan Silvestri score , and a few memorable lines - especially Blain's immortal line " I ain't got time to bleed " . The alien menace itself is impressive in appearance and capably played by seven foot , two inch actor Kevin Peter Hall . The cast also includes screenwriter Shane Black as ' Hawkins ' , best known as the guy who wrote the original " Lethal Weapon " . This was Bill Duke's ( ' Mac ' ) second role opposite Arnie after " Commando " , and Jesse Ventura's ( ' Blain ' ) first before " The Running Man " . A great and invigorating warm-up by director John McTiernan to the thrills provided in his next film , the action masterpiece " Die Hard " . Filmed in Mexico .
One of the 1990's most fun pictures .	Based on Michael Crichton's best-seller , and scripted by Crichton himself and David Koepp , this movie tells the story of ultra-rich entrepreneur John Hammond ( veteran actor and director Richard Attenborough ) whose bevy of scientists discover the means to create actual dinosaurs in the modern age . Hammond contrives a theme park which will be stocked full of these dinosaurs , inviting two dinosaur experts ( Sam Neill , Laura Dern ) and a mathematician ( Jeff Goldblum ) for the weekend in the hopes that they will endorse the park . He even invites his two grandchildren ( Joseph Mazzello , Ariana Richards ) in the hopes of appealing to his target audience . However , this is a disaster movie / thriller , so as you can imagine things go horribly wrong . . . I do actually know people who believe this movie is criminally over-rated , but for me it remains a fun viewing experience that loses little after repeat viewings . The script may not be free from holes , but the movie is definitely well-made . It is intense , slick , reasonably paced , and features absolutely incredible special effects that are actually CONVINCING . The dinosaurs actually look REAL . The cast , particularly Attenborough , is enjoyable and John Williams ' music score is as always thoroughly memorable . Followed by two sequels : " The Lost World : Jurassic Park " and " Jurassic Park III " . I've heard that a possible third sequel could conceivably see the light of day . A note to Hollywood : don't overdo it . Three is enough . Four is pushing it . PLEASE don't make a fifth one . I hate it when ideas get beat to death .
When you're undead , you're family . . .	Clever , original movie from screenwriter Michael Wolk and director John Landis in which sexy French vampire Marie ( an alluring and highly appealing Anne Parillaud of " La Femme Nikita " fame ) feeds only on the scum of society . Not only that , but she always makes sure to finish her victims off so they don't become vampires themselves . However , after sinking her fangs into mob boss Sal " The Shark " Macelli ( a marvelously grandiose turn by veteran Robert Loggia ) , she fails to finish him off , and the result is uproarious , as the newly minted vampire revels in his newfound powers and ultimately turns his minions into the undead as well . Good cop Joe Gennaro ( Anthony LaPaglia , solid and likable ) , who'd been working undercover as part of Sals ' gang , tries to put a stop to things . Overlength may be the only problem with this very , very fun and engaging movie that's a lot of things rolled into one efficient package : mob movie , comedy , vampire horror , done with great style . It's full of the red stuff ( naturally ) ; it's energetic and violent and the special effects are really quite superb . Landis , who endeared himself to horror fans with his highly humorous 1981 werewolf classic , " An American Werewolf in London " , once again proves adept at balancing outright horror - delivering some great shocks - with a truly appreciable sense of humor . Landis also takes the time to occasionally slow down the action by establishing the budding relationship between Marie and Joe ; in fact , Maries ' dialog / narration and Parillauds ' performance take on a kind of poignancy . Fortunately , Landis never forgets that this is essentially a " fun " picture , and always has another great scene for us right around the corner . The stars are capably supported by a top-notch cast including David Proval , Chazz Palminteri , Don Rickles ( doing good work as Macellis ' attorney ) , Tony " Paulie Walnuts " Sirico , Luis Guzman , Angela Bassett , Leo Burmester , and Marshall Bell . Adhering to his tradition of numerous gag cameos , director Landis also dots the landscape with extremely welcome appearances by such fellow directors as Sam Raimi , Dario Argento , Michael Ritchie , and Frank Oz ( Oz's scenes as the coroner are particularly hysterical ) , as well as other fine folk as Tom Savini , Forrest J . Ackerman , and Linnea Quigley . Numerous references to vampire films of the past also make it fun - look for clips from films ranging all the way from the ' 31 " Dracula " to " Strangers on a Train " . The city of Pittsburgh makes a great setting for the film ; great wintry settings are well photographed by genre pro Mac Ahlberg . It's always a pleasure , as a horror fan , to watch a picture made by a true horror fan . It's an under-rated and over-looked picture in Landis's career .
A nice return to minimalist horror films .	At Christmastime , a girl ( Emily Blunt ) is riding home from college with a guy ( Ashton Holmes ) she met through a college ride board . As they travel through the snowy wilderness , his unthinking use of a shortcut leads to horrifying repercussions : forced into a snowbank by a near-collision with another vehicle , their car is crippled and they soon find that they have more than the extremely hazardous weather conditions to deal with . Throughout the night , they will see one bizarre and disturbing image after another . Flying in the face of more action and gore oriented modern horror movies , " Wind Chill " is a real change of pace . It's a very character-oriented piece , often confined to the claustrophobic setting of the inside of the car . Hinging a horror movie on its acting ( our two leads are most often the only ones on screen ) and atmosphere is not something that I see a lot of these days , making this a solidly refreshing experience . It would have needed two excellent actors to make it work , and Blunt and Holmes develop a strong rapport and enable us to learn as much as we can about two characters who as you can see don't even get proper names . The bleak wintry setting is another substantial plus : the locations are completely authentic and one can believe that it really is as cold as it looks on a screen . The colors are reduced to an assortment of blues , grays , blacks , and whites , rendering it almost monochromatic but rich in its atmosphere . Everything about the look feels right ; right down to the ravine and abandoned nearby house . That's not to say that there's a complete absence of effects work , but it's delivered in small doses , and never does it get too cheesy . The apparitions genuinely look spooky , and one moment involving a regurgitated eel was a good little gag . It plays out in a highly surreal fashion ; we get just as much back story and exposition as is necessary , and no more . As it progresses , it takes on the tones of a true nightmare , where nothing quite seems real . The attractive and engaging leads are ably supported by the excellent Martin Donovan as a malicious highway patrolman and Ned Bellamy as a helpful snow plow driver . Clint Mansells ' music is beautifully eerie , and overall it was a real pleasure for me to watch a horror movie that I could consider legitimately frightening . I would agree that the resolution isn't as effective as the first two thirds of the movie , but the overall effect is undeniable . I would definitely recommend it . George Clooney and Steven Soderbergh were among the executive producers .
A landmark " body count " horror movie that delivers the goods in high style .	Known by many different titles , among them " A Bay of Blood " , " Carnage " , " Twitch of the Death Nerve " , and " Last House on the Left , Part II " , this marvelously gory predecessor to slasher movies is a fine exercise in style by Italian master Mario Bava . A prime piece of bayside real estate is being coveted by some ruthless and sadistic individuals ; one body after another drops , hence the title " Reazione a catena " , translated as " chain reaction " in English . In addition to our major players , anyone else foolish enough to drop by ( including a quartet of playful youngsters ) is fair game . The film is packed with some memorably graphic mayhem ; the sickle to the face will always be my personal favorite , although there's also a nifty decapitation , and a show-stopping , prime example of coitus interruptus that was ripped off later in " Friday the 13th , Part 2 " . Carlo Rambaldi , later a creator of creature effects in such films as " King Kong " ( 1976 ) , " Alien " , " E . T . the Extra-Terrestrial " and " Cat's Eye " is the man behind the gore here , and his work is outstanding . What will give this film the edge over the many North American imitators that it inspired is the elegance and flair that Bava ( also serving as his own cinematographer here , and doing an excellent job ) brings to the proceedings . The film is beautiful to look at ; the setting is wonderful . I'll also find hard to forget the striking image of an octopus slithering over the face of one of the many victims . The film is also enhanced by the lovely music of Stelvio Cipriani , which at times involves lots of percussion and becomes heavily atmospheric . This film gets right down to business pretty quickly ; in short order two of the characters get knocked off although the first nine or so minutes , rather effectively , play out without dialog . This is a genuinely great film that deserves a certain amount of respect , both for its entertainment value and its influence . I highly recommend it .
Why isn't it on more " scariest films of all time " lists ?	Almost plot less , fairly simple mystery-horror-drama-thriller , an Italian masterpiece by one of the leading names in Italian horror - - Dario Argento . American ballet dancer Suzy Bannion ( Jessica Harper ) goes to famed German ballet school that is actually a front for a coven of witches . Within the first fifteen minutes , I was witness to one of the most shocking , graphic , and unrelenting murder scenes ever filmed . The movie continues to be harrowing and incredibly creepy from that point on ; it has an amazing amount of atmosphere - enhanced by the photography , lighting , makeup effects ( and film critics complain about American films being gory ! ) , and the music score . MY GOD , the music score . Just hearing that main theme makes me want to squirm . Ultimately , I couldn't give it because it was too potent even for my tastes . I've seen it twice and I think that that will be enough to satisfy me for a lifetime . Dialog is pretty funny - - not always in a good way , but it IS funny . Chilling and memorable ; hard to watch at times , but eerily compelling .
A grueling , gruesome , and gripping horror film certain to please gore fans .	Poor Sarah ( Alysson Paradis ) : left to raise her unborn baby by herself after an ugly traffic accident claims the life of her husband , she finds herself alone in her home on Christmas Eve , where she's tormented relentlessly by an unnamed , remarkably brutal woman ( Beatrice Dalle ) who seems out to get her personally . No matter how many people stop by who could potentially come to Sarahs ' rescue , none of them are any match for the sadistic psychopath . " Inside " begins at a slow and steady pace , keeping us with Sarah and successfully creating a sense of utter melancholy . This is ultimately part of what makes this film work so well : the ability to evoke real emotion . Sarah goes through an ordeal so horrible it would be hard not to sympathize with her , and Paradis delivers an affecting performance . In the end , though , Dalle walks away with the film with her true force-of-nature portrayal , although the big revelation about her character - the reason for her madness - isn't too hard to figure out . Watching this film is a true gut-wrenching experience . Not once do these film-makers ever shy away from any of the gory details ; the makeup effects are quite simply exceptional . One potent and nasty set piece after another is delivered . The film certainly delivers in the shock department , although it also works as a portrayal of fierce and undying devotion that defies any sort of rational thought . It ends on a positively and interestingly chilling final note . It's the kind of thing I don't soon forget , and you may not either after you view it . A fiendish , feverish bloodbath that provides a commendably high level of visceral thrills , " Inside " comes highly recommended for hardcore horror fans . Stylish , well shot , and moody , it entertained me for a solid 83 minutes .
One of Hammer's all-time best .	The beloved horror star Christopher Lee gets a rare chance to be the heroic lead in this well - done terror tale . He plays Duc de Richleau , who with his friend Rex ( Leon Greene ) seeks out their friend Simon ( Patrick Mower ) when Simon fails to attend a reunion . When they find him , the Duc realizes that Simon has become involved with a cult of Satanists . As the story progresses , it's not just Simon who must be rescued , but innocent young Tanith ( Nike Arrighi ) as well . Director Terence Fisher was at the helm of many a Hammer horror picture ; he ranks as one of the most prolific directors ever in the genre and delivered some bona fide classics . " The Devil Rides Out " rates as one of his best efforts . Scripted by author Richard Matheson from the novel by Dennis Wheatley , it's an extremely classy and very well made film . It takes the familiar , eternal battle between good and evil and develops it in interesting ways . Full of atmosphere , portents , and escalating tension , it delivers not one but two climaxes and some surprises as well . The premise is treated with the utmost seriousness , with genuinely believable and unsettling scenes of Devil worship . Lee is wonderful as the gentlemanly , dapper hero who knows what needs to be done , with Charles Gray an excellent opponent as the eerie villain Mocata . Gray's scenes are among the creepiest in the film , as he successfully manages to hypnotize and manipulate those around him . Greene lends some solid support as the loyal Rex , who finds himself falling for Tanith . Arrighi has a delightfully ethereal appeal and beauty in this role . Mower displays a strong likability as the weak Simon . In a small role , Gwen Ffrangcon Davies is remarkable as the Countess . James Bernard gives us another of his overpowering , thoroughly menacing music scores , with stylish and moody cinematography by Arthur Grant . Grant and production designer Bernard Robinson definitely help Fisher capture the ambiance of each and every scene . For good old-fashioned horror , one would be hard pressed to find as effective a picture as this . The ending is especially impressive as it utilizes a concept that's certainly not usually to be expected in this sort of fare . It's a good-looking , spooky , and tense film that wastes not a single moment .
The Force Will Be With You . . . Always .	A bona fide pop-culture phenomenon , this memorable movie remains one of the most popular movies ever made . Although it no longer enthralls me the way it used to , it still provides solid entertainment . Mark Hamill plays Luke Skywalker , a restless and ambitious youth who yearns to join Rebel forces that are trying to rise up against the evil " Galactic Empire . " Chief among his allies are his aged mentor Obi-Wan Kenobi ( Sir Alec Guinness ) , cocky and macho spaceship pilot Han Solo ( Harrison Ford ) , Solo's hairy co-pilot Chewbacca ( Peter Mayhew ) , and the droids C-3P0 ( Anthony Daniels ) and R2-D2 ( Kenny Baker ) , as he races to rescue Princess Leia ( Carrie Fisher ) , the kidnapped daughter of a royal family . Featuring special effects that broke new ground back in the 1970's , an unforgettable , catchy score by John Williams , great sets , locations , and characters , I think it may be a hard movie to hate . I would recommend that most people see it at least once . I agree with something said in another user comment . I would be more than happy to erase all my memories of the film and be experiencing it again for the first time . There was something special about the initial trilogy , something that is , I think , unfortunately missing from this current crop of films . I'm only speaking for myself , of course , but I must say that they're just not the same . Part of it may be the fact that these new movies were a long time in coming , and the wonderment and fascination I felt as a child is now replaced by a seen-a-lot ( if not all ) sort of complacency . It's still fun to watch , and if I were asked , I would say that any of the scenes on Tatooine would be my favorites from the film - including the attack of the Sand People , and that memorable trip to the Cantina - with all those weird and wacky alien creatures . ( Trivia note : Rick Baker was one of the makeup artists . ) British veterans Guinness and Peter Cushing ( best known for his legacy of Hammer horror films ) are excellent choices for Kenobi and Grand Moff Tarkin , and the Hamill-Ford-Fisher team works well together . If you're savvy enough about the making of this film , you may know that its casting was happening about the same time as the casting for the movie " Carrie " , and that William Katt - a . k . a . " Tommy Ross " - was up for the role of Luke Skywalker here . I've even read that Christopher Walken ( it's true ) was a contender for the role of Han Solo . If you read the trivia page for this film , you'll find lots of interesting little tidbits of information . I give it nine out of 10 ; this is only because , like I said , it doesn't quite do for me what it used to . But I could never get sick of it ! I heartily recommend it .
Appealing combination of drama and comedy ; a real find .	American icon Henry Fonda portrays " Elegant " John Howard , an aging trucker who has had his beloved big rig " Eleanor " repossessed after a lengthy hospital stay has forced him to miss his payments . Deciding that he would like to make just one more perfect run , he breaks out of the hospital , steals back Eleanor , and hooks up with old friend Penelope Pearson ( Eileen Brennan ) , who is in need of relocating her troupe of prostitutes . Fondas ' wonderful performance is a natural anchor for a film that tugs at the heartstrings as effectively as it tickles the funny bone in the more comedic scenes . A superb cast including Robert Englund , as a reluctant young sidekick , Susan Sarandon ( who also gets co-producer credit ) , and Dub Taylor ( a delightful ham , as always , in the most blatantly comedic portion of the picture ) helps immeasurably . The ultimately life-affirming nature of the picture and the poignancy of the journey carry incredible weight ; this is a picture , that provided you get into it , you can remember long after it's over . The promise of the open road is vividly displayed here ; the countryside just looks beautiful . Set to Craig Safans ' wonderful music score , it's a remarkable picture in terms of aesthetics . It loses a little something in its final act ( the characters played by John Byner and Austin Pendleton are little more than intrusions ) , but it still maintains its good vibes thanks to the appeal of its central characters . Not at all the exploitation / drive-in schlock picture one might expect from the title ( especially its alternate title , " The Great Smokey Roadblock " ) , it's a rewarding movie experience that I can recommend without qualms .
Delightfully raucous sports comedy .	Very entertaining from start to finish , this sports comedy classic features Paul Newman in a great role : Reggie Dunlop , player / coach of a minor league hockey team , the Charlestown Chiefs . The team isn't having much success as of late and its days look like they're numbered . Inspiration sets in when Reggie decides to rile up his teammates and get them to play dirty . Then their fortunes change and they end up with a shot at a championship . " Slap Shot " is highly engaging entertainment . It's definitely got a lot to say about the appetite for violence in sports . The fans eat it up and it's clear how things can turn into a circus if the participants aren't held in check . It's also a good look at how people seek escape in the wake of a depressed economy ( making aspects of this film relevant in our current time and climate ) ; the film is set in a small town ( the film certainly has great small town atmosphere ) where a mill is set to close and many jobs will be lost . And of course it's an energetic , exciting film with good rink action and plenty of visceral appeal . The script by Nancy Dowd is absolutely hilarious , with lots of cynicism and liberal use of gut-busting profanity . The cast gives it 100 % percent , with Newman in a superb star turn . Stand-out supporting characters include the Hanson triplets , all too eager to engage in rough play , local sports broadcaster Jim Carr ( Andrew Duncan ) , conniving general manager Joe McGrath ( Strother Martin , wonderful as always ) , and especially the pathologically lecherous Wanchuk ( Brad Sullivan ) . Granted , it gets bogged down a little at times detailing the romantic issues of Reggie and star player Ned Braden ( Michael Ontkean ) , but never strays too far off course . This is far and away one of the most entertaining sports movies that I've ever watched .
Fun horror movie ; well worth catching .	In the 1930's , gangster Nicky ( Sal Vecchio ) is betrayed by his own gang and rubbed out , with his mistress Ruby ( Piper Laurie ) witnessing . We move forward to the 1950's , and Ruby is now a faded starlet running a drive-in movie theater ( specializing in films like " Attack of the 50 Ft . Woman " ) with the members of the gang on the staff . Shortly , the gang members are violently taken out one at a time , while Ruby's mute daughter ( Janit Baldwin ) seems to be taking on the personality of her late father . As my introduction to the low-budget suspense films of B-movie expert Curtis Harrington ( who sadly passed away just months ago ) , " Ruby " was a lot of fun and a good primer for me . Harrington is one of those film-makers who can make the most out of a low budget ; this is well-directed and has atmosphere to spare . It's a creepy , chilly shocker with some good death sequences ; one that involves a cold-drink machine is particularly memorable . The music by Don Ellis was wonderful and also added immeasurably to the mood . Laurie's follow up vehicle to her memorable comeback performance as the obsessed , heartless mother in " Carrie " provides her with another good showcase ; here she's often just as flamboyant and scene-stealing , but at least this time she gets to play a character more sympathetic . Stuart Whitman and Roger Davis are good in support , with special mention going to Baldwin , who is a striking , wide-eyed presence who commands a certain amount of attention without the benefit of dialog . The only debit for me was an abrupt , silly ending , although that is not the fault of the director ; he intended for something more poetic , but the producer intervened and stuck us with what we now have . I really loved " Ruby " , flaws and all . I'm sure it made for a great drive-in B picture itself back in its day ; although it still works fairly well on a small screen . I easily recommend this one .
One of the all-time great cop thrillers .	Steve McQueen plays dedicated police detective Frank Bullitt , who takes the assignment of guarding a government witness . However , the witness gets blown away on the first night , and the circumstances tell Bullitt that something strange is going on . He gets a lot of flak from the grandstanding , ambitious D . A . Chalmers ( McQueen's " Magnificent Seven " co-star Robert Vaughn ) , but does have the support of his superior , Captain Bennet ( Simon Oakland ) and help of his partner Delgetti ( Don Gordon ) . For the most part , this classic cop thriller has a refreshingly unhurried pace . Nothing about this movie is overblown or melodramatic ; director Peter Yates and company adhere to a realism and believability that very well suits the material ( it's based on a novel called " Mute Witness " by Robert L . Pike ) . It pre-dates " Dirty Harry " by a few years , sharing similarities such as the San Francisco location and the maverick " hero " with a steadfast commitment to his job . It's even got a jazzy score by Lalo Schifrin , who went on to score four of the " Dirty Harry " series entries . It gets off to an impressive start with some stylized opening credits and gives us as viewers enough time to digest each scene and appreciate it , rather than racing to get to the next set piece . The undeniable highlight is the climactic , much-heralded car chase , one of the best ever committed to celluloid . The climax set at the airport is equally impressive . The role of the taciturn Bullitt is ideal for McQueen , who receives strong assistance from his supporting cast , also including Jacqueline Bisset as his girlfriend , Robert Duvall as a helpful cabbie , Norman Fell as Captain Baker , Georg Stanford Brown as Dr . Willard , Carl Reindel as Stanton , and Felice Orlandi as the witness . ( Vic Tayback can be seen at the outset , as well . ) " Bullitt " is a movie that continues to hold up well over 40 years later . It's a real gem of its type , with a good script , sharp dialog , excellent editing and location work , and a solid , understated presentation . I would not call it an action picture per se ; as has already been said , it's far more about telling a story and the relentless drive to solve a crime then indulging in gunfire and explosions for the sake of satiation . It's a movie worth discovering or re-visiting .
Even better the second time around .	Sidney Prescott ( Neve Campbell ) is a university student a few years after the events of the original movie . As could be expected , a movie titled " Stab " , based on the events of the original film , is being released . Also , as could be expected , a copycat killer is on the loose , savagely killing everybody in sight , intent on creating a " real-life " sequel of sorts . I like " Scream 2 " even better than the first movie . I think it gave me even more for my money . More killings , more bloodshed . . . and more chase / suspense scenes . It goes on pretty long for a horror / thriller ( those kinds of films generally aren't much longer than an hour and a half , while this one runs about two hours long ) but it provides good entertainment throughout . The gimmick is that now the film-makers are attempting to poke fun at horror movie sequels , where the rules tend to change a little bit . Best of all , the movie has one smart African-American character who's actually smarter than most of the panic-stricken white folk in the film . You don't see that too often in horror movies . And one spectacular death scene for one extremely unfortunate police detective . OUCH ! Some folks may think that this is formula-driven stuff itself that has already become derivative . But at least for me , it's still exciting to watch . ; sometimes sequels really do deliver the goods .
Excellent !	John Book ( Harrison Ford ) is a good , honest Philadelphia cop who is forced to hide out on an Amish farm while pursuing some corrupt cops . In the midst of this culture clash , he finds himself increasingly attracted to young widow Rachel ( Kelly McGillis ) who's the mother of a juvenile murder witness ( Lukas Haas ) . This movie is a genuinely affecting combination of several themes - a cop movie , a forbidden romance , and an exploration of a very " plain " culture . It is serious and thoughtfully handled , and cast to perfection . Ford gives one of his very best performances , in fact . I really enjoyed the music score , too . The script isn't infallible , I did have some questions after watching some scenes . However , I still consider it to be really good and entertaining film-making . While you watch , keep an eye out for Viggo Mortensen , in his film debut .
" Hey , we're on an outing , here . "	It may have been inevitable that with the onslaught of " slasher " movies in the early 1980's , that a few good ones might slip through the cracks . This is a great " rare " film from Jeff Lieberman , who insured his cult status with his memorable 1970's films " Squirm " and " Blue Sunshine " . Five young people head into the Oregon mountains ( this movie was actually shot on location ) to do some camping and check out the deed to some land that one of them has acquired . Before long , they will predictably be terrorized by a bulky killer with an incredibly creepy wheezing laugh . " Just Before Dawn " is noticeably more ambitious , " arty " , and intelligent than some slasher films . Lieberman actually fleshes out the characters - well , two of them , anyway - as much as a 90-minute-long film will allow him . The film has genuine moments of suspense and tension , and actually refrains from graphic gore , save for one killing right at the beginning . There is an above-average cast here , including Oscar winner George Kennedy , as a forest ranger who's understandably gone a little flaky from having been alone in the wilderness for too long . Jack Lemmon's son Chris , future Brian De Palma regular Gregg Henry , blonde lead Deborah Benson ( it's too bad she hasn't become a more well-known performer , judging by her work here ) , Ralph Seymour ( " Ghoulies " ) , Mike Kellin ( " Sleepaway Camp " ) , and Jamie Rose ( " Chopper Chicks in Zombietown " ) round out the cast . Some of the shots are interesting , and the early music score by Brad Feidel ( now best known for his " Terminator " theme ) is haunting and atmospheric . This is worth catching for the important plot twist at about the one hour mark , although a moment at about 75 minutes in involving the heroine and a tree and the killer is almost comical ; it may actually remind a viewer of a cartoon ! One of the most clever touches is the final dispatching of the killer , which I'd never seen before in a horror film and probably won't see again . I didn't give it because I can't honestly that I was that frightened . Still , it's an interesting slasher that is worthy of re-discovery . " That deed don't mean nothing , son . Those mountains can't read . "
Liar , Lawyer . . . They're The Same Thing .	Jim Carrey plays Fletcher Reede , a successful attorney who has a genuine talent for lying and exaggerating . Unfortunately , he breaks his promises to his son Max ( Justin Cooper ) - breaking Max's heart in the process - once too often , and Max wishes over his fifth birthday cake that Fletcher will be unable to tell any lies for a twenty-four hour period . Of course , the wish comes true , spawning outrageous , hilarious results as Fletcher is saddled with a case where he has to lie in order to win . VERY funny movie that stays on track for about an hour , until it starts getting too sentimental ; also , that finale is too ridiculous for words . I still enjoy it whenever I see it , though ; it's quite a good vehicle for Carrey , and he's well supported by the other actors , all of whom basically play the " straight man " while Carrey does his thing . I've often thought , that if I were a comedic actor , this is the kind of script I would like . It seems to leave room for a fair bit of improvisation . There are outtakes shown during the closing credits that are pretty good , too . ( Can somebody let me know if there are any additional outtakes on the DVD ? I'm curious . ) I give it . It's a near-perfect film for Jim Carrey fans .
This top-notch underwater saga is one of my favorite films .	Epic-scale , intensely emotional science-fiction / drama / thriller in which an underwater drilling crew , led by Virgil " Bud " Brigman ( Ed Harris ) is recruited by the Navy to assist in a dangerous rescue mission . Eventually they all discover they are not alone deep down there in the water . . . I love this movie , what more can I say ? Many underwater movies have got nothing on it . The only problem is the running time : 145 minutes , extended to 171 minutes for the special edition . Some people may therefore have a hard time sticking with it , especially those who can't stand material that they deem " sappy " . It is in any event an impressive , major undertaking for writer / director James Cameron that provides acting showcases not just for the leads ( Harris , Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio , Michael Biehn ) but a fine supporting cast filled with good character actors . I think it is a very slick , professionally handled movie with stunning special effects that had to have been state-of-the-art at the time . The drama is compelling ( there is no shortage of crises to overcome ) and the dialog is often good . I sure have to admire Cameron for having a successful track record . All of his movies have been good ( not to mention big money-makers ) , with the possible exception of his directing debut " Piranha Part II : The Spawning " , which I still haven't seen . And once again , an excellent score by Alan Silvestri .
A true laugh-out-loud comedy .	Spoiled-rotten , young jerk actor Ricky Coogin ( Alex Winter ) allows himself to be bought out by an unscrupulous company hawking a way-too-obviously dangerous chemical . Traveling to South America with friend Ernie ( Michael Stoyanov ) and hooking up with protester Julie ( Megan Ward ) , he makes the mistake of stopping to check out the amusement park of one Elijah C . Skuggs ( a marvelous Randy Quaid ) . Skuggs then proceeds to turn them into his newest attractions . Winter , best known for playing Bill in the " Bill & Ted " comedies , co-wrote and co-directed with Tom Stern ( the two were the brains behind an MTV series called ' The Idiot Box ' ) and they provide the viewer with some great gags . ( I liked the one with the multiple milkmen . ) It was a pleasure to watch a comedy that had me laughing as often as this one did . I can believe that most of the budget went into the makeup effects . The truly outlandish and impressive freak makeup ( by Tony Gardners ' , Steve Johnsons ' , and Screaming Mad Georges ' teams ) emerges as a major asset of this in-your-face and stylish , twisted comedy , as well as nice stop motion animation by David Allen . The casting director must have had a ball with this one . The performances are highly spirited and exaggerated . Mr . T ( as the bearded lady ! ) , Bobcat Goldthwait ( voice only ) , Morgan Fairchild , and Brooke Shields all make appearances , with Winters ' old " Bill & Ted " co-star Keanu Reeves offering one of his most fun performances ever , uncredited , as Ortiz the Dog Boy . Look also for a cameo from the late Calvert DeForest , a . k . a . Larry " Bud " Melman of numerous appearances on David Lettermans ' TV talk show . The always welcome William Sadler , who of course was Death in " Bill & Ted's Bogus Journey " turns up here and is lots of fun . One other great thing about this film were the excellent sets , both indoors and out ; production designer Catherine Hardwicke and her team succeed in giving the film a South American look although it was filmed in California . Finally , I couldn't let a review of this film go by without a word of approval for the entertaining soundtrack , a great accompaniment to the crazy happenings on screen . It's a short and sweet ( only 80 minutes , although 11 minutes were cut prior to release ) riot of a film from beginning to end .
A superb work of macabre art .	Adapting his own novel " Cabal " for the screen , author / screenwriter / director Clive Barker fashioned this marvelous story of outré horror and fantasy . Craig Sheffer plays Boone , a young man who becomes suspected of being a serial killer . The cops gun him down in front of Midian , on the surface a cemetery but which is actually a haven for monsters that have been shunned by society . When they lay claim to Boone and make him one of their own , this causes repercussions for everybody , including Boone's sweet girlfriend ( the very cute Anne Bobby ) and dubious psychiatrist ( a most enjoyable David Cronenberg ) . " Nightbreed " displays the kind of wild and twisted imagination that I don't see in movies all that often . For one thing , Ralph McQuarrie , an old hand at conceptual art having worked on such films as the initial three " Star Wars " entries , helps Barker to create excellent visuals for " Nightbreed " , starting right away with the opening credit sequence . The visual and makeup effects are elaborate , and production design and cinematography quite impressive . Barker and crew do a wonderful job at creating this whole other world with compelling characters . It's colorful and flamboyant entertainment and is a pleasure to take in . And of course there's the strong sense of social commentary regarding intolerance and bigotry , not to mention the heavy consequences that can result from a person's actions . Great supporting performances add to the fun . Cronenberg oozes lots of malevolent intent and is a real gas as the bad doctor , while Charles Haid is a fine love-to-hate-him type of antagonist , a rather nasty police captain . Doug " Pinhead " Bradley once again gets buried under heavy makeup as the weary Lylesberg , and is solid as a rock . Hugh Ross is great fun as Narcisse , as is Catherine Chevalier as Rachel ( as an added bonus , she bares her breasts in one sequence ) . Simon Bamford , who played the " Butterball Cenobite " in the first two " Hellraiser " pictures , turns up here as well . There's even a cool cameo by 50's and 60's sci-fi star John Agar . Danny Elfman supplies another of his fantastic scores , and Barker leads us steadily through the intriguing story towards a terrific apocalyptic showdown . " Nightbreed " is an excellent genre film worth checking out for anybody who hasn't seen it . I give it a hearty recommendation .
" You can't tame what's meant to be wild , Doc . It ain't natural . "	The werewolf genre had been dormant for a while , to be revived quite impressively in 1981 by Joe Dante's " The Howling " and John Landis's " An American Werewolf in London " . This still stands tall as a fine horror film with many elements coming together to create one of the best films of its kind . Officially basing their script on Gary Brandner's novel , credited screenwriters John Sayles and Terrence H . Winkless came up with a plot of TV anchorwoman Karen White ( Dee Wallace , lovable as always ) , who helps the cops to nab ultra-creepy killer Eddie Quist ( Robert Picardo , soon to become a fixture in Dante's films ) , but is severely traumatized by the event . To help her come to grips with her experience , eminent psychiatrist Dr . George Waggner ( Patrick Macnee ) invites her to his experimental encounter-group community " The Colony " , located deep in the California woods . What Karen doesn't know is that the entire population is made up of werewolves - very frightening and vicious ones at that . For me , this highly entertaining fright flick continues to hold up . It's all done with lots of wit and style . It's filled with a delightful array of wolf-related in-jokes : a copy of Allen Ginsburg's " Howl " , a tin of Wolf Chili , footage taken from the 1941 werewolf classic " The Wolf Man " , and several of the main characters are named after men who directed werewolf films ( George Waggner , Terry ( Terence ) Fisher , ( Roy ) William Neill , Charles Barton , etc . ) . It's fun to take all of it in . But even with a strong and appreciable sense of humor , it works as a genuinely scary horror movie , with impressive bipedal werewolves that , unlike , past cinematic interpretations of the creatures , are much more wolf than man . Rob Bottin made a real name for himself with his eye-popping makeup effects and transformations ; Picardo's effectively drawn-out metamorphosis is an undeniable highlight . Night scenes are creepy and suspenseful , and the film delivers some good jolts as well . The cast is excellent right down the line . Dennis Dugan , Kevin McCarthy , lovely Belinda Balaski , alluring Elisabeth Brooks , James Murtaugh , Noble Willingham , Kenneth Tobey , ever affable Slim Pickens , a typically extravagant John Carradine , and Meshach Taylor all do fine supporting work . But the show is stolen by Dante regular Dick Miller ( re-using his old character name Walter Paisley once again ) as a bookstore owner and Sayles himself as a morgue attendant ; these are both wonderful cameo performances . Sayles did a fine job of putting a new spin on werewolf tales . While many past leads of werewolf films were tragic victims , the werewolves in this film rather enjoy themselves and more than anything would rather be adhering to werewolf tradition and feeding on their human counterparts . The script even takes time to gently poke fun at the various therapy crazes of the time period . Art director Robert A . Burns of " Texas Chain Saw Massacre " fame does typically impressive work , Pino Donaggio contributes another of his eerie music scores , and the film ends on a very amusing final note . Followed by six sequels .
A very effective thriller ; graphic and gripping .	Based on their nine minute short subject from 2003 , then-newcomers Leigh Whannell and James Wan concocted this dark and oppressive movie about a successful surgeon ( Cary Elwes ) and a younger man ( Whannell ) chained up inside an extremely filthy washroom . It turns out that they are the prisoners of a madman who desires that they participate in a game of survival . Now successful enough to have spawned an ongoing franchise , the fourth part of the series comes out later this year . It's a very affecting experience - just as visceral as one could expect , but not a true no-brainer either . The villain , Jigsaws ' , mission is to make his victims learn to appreciate life , so there's a little bit of moralizing here . It also worked for me by presenting me with the intriguing type of scenario where I'm compelled to consider what I would do in the exact same situation . Although some of the emoting here isn't too convincing , the acting is mostly good ; Elwes and Whannell do a good job of drawing me into their predicament , and the supporting cast is quite efficient : Danny Glover , Ken Leung , and Dina Meyer as investigating detectives , Monica Potter as the surgeons ' wife , Shawnee Smith as a former victim , and , best of all , character veteran Tobin Bell , who after a number of years in the business , finally became a star - at least in the horror genre - thanks to his convincing performance as the icy and sadistic Jigsaw . It does go without saying that this isn't for everybody ; the squeamish and faint of heart should already know that this wouldn't be their idea of a good time . However , while there is some very bloody mayhem to behold here , I would say that there's more to this than just torture for tortures ' sake . The movie still works even in the non-bloody scenes ; it was riveting for me from beginning to end . Regardless of how much or how little sympathy one has for the victims , I think it would be hard to not feel some degree of concern for their ordeal . The story was filled with an enjoyable series of twists and turns , also helping to prevent it from ever being dull . It had a very good revelation in the end ; I did not see it coming , and it ended the picture on an effectively bleak note . It's one of the more potent pictures that I've seen lately .
" You're a dead man MacReady ! Or a dead whatever the hl you are ! "	This ultra-slick and satisfying monster movie is the re-imagining of the classic short story " Who Goes There ? " by John W . Campbell , Jr . The 1951 movie " The Thing From Another World " used Campbell's story for inspiration without following it very closely ; this movie takes the story's central concept and runs with it all the way . The scientists , mechanics , and pilots at an isolated Antarctica research station are thrust into a nightmare - right at the beginning of winter - when some very distraught Norwegians pursue a seemingly harmless husky into the camp . Why are the Norwegians determined to kill this poor animal ? That's what we are going to find out . . . " The Thing " is a very tense , unsettling , creepy , and downbeat creature feature with so many things going for it : gory and impressively imaginative creature effects ( this is precisely what turns off many of the movie's detractors ) , stylish direction that keeps me on edge , excellent performances by the character-actor cast ( led by frequent John Carpenter actor Kurt Russell ) , a low-key and effective Ennio Morricone music score , and a decent script . Those creature effects really are something else , aren't they ? In the current era of special effects where CGI and computer animation are running rampant , it's nice to see effects that one can believe were occupying the same frame as the actors . I must say this : Leonard Maltin may complain and say the gore is non-stop , but that's not true . The movie has some effects-oriented highlights that simply come along at select intervals . I do have to say one other thing : I am simply too familiar with the effects now to be scared ( I used to watch the movie through my fingers ) and actually find more terror now in the scenes of straight suspense . " The Thing " works both as simple entertainment and as studies in both ISOLATION and PARANOIA . When we learn that the monster in the movie clones itself by forming a perfect imitation of a life form , the movie becomes nuts as the characters and the audience try to figure out which guys in the camp are no longer human beings . One of Carpenter's very best movies , and of my personal favorites .
A supremely engaging 1970's exploitation classic .	Angie Dickinson is a delightful combination of gutsy determination and femininity in this raucous , sleazy good time from producer Roger Corman . She plays Wilma McClatchie , a mother of two teenage daughters during the Depression who makes up her mind that the three of them will survive despite the odds , and no matter what they have to do . They take to the road in a series of daring robberies , hooking up with hot-tempered bank robber Fred Diller ( a gloriously blustery Tom Skerritt ) and the more refined William J . Baxter ( William Shatner , as always a real hoot ) . Pursuing them the entire time are two constantly bumbling federal agents played for maximum silliness by Dick Miller and Tom Signorelli . This is one of those movies that has it both ways - it's exploitation and empowerment at the same time - and does it well . It's a bouncy , breezy , fast paced , action-packed film with not one dull moment . The entertaining script , credited to both William Norton and Frances Doel , gives Dickinson some great lines , and successfully balances hearty laughs with genuinely poignant moments . Director Steve Carver , who'd go on to do other fine action films as " Eye for an Eye " and " Lone Wolf McQuade " with Chuck Norris , handles it all in high style . Of course , no assessment of this film would be complete without words of appreciation for Dickinson's nude scenes ; she's simply exquisite . Susan Sennett ( " The Candy Snatchers " ) and Robbie Lee ( " Switchblade Sisters " ) add a lot of appeal as the wildly contrasting daughters ; Billy Jean ( Sennett ) is a free spirit and truly her mother's daughter , and Polly ( Lee ) is endearingly sweet , naive , and childish . The supporting cast plays it all with an equally impressive amount of gusto : Noble Willingham as the ill-fated " Uncle " Barney , Royal Dano as a flummoxed preacher , sexy Joan Prather as spoiled rich brat Jane Kingston , Sally Kirkland as Barney's woman , and Michael Talbott as the sheriff's son . Be sure to watch for the uncredited bit appearance by Paul Bartel , who was second unit director on this film . David Grisman's country-flavored music score is fantastic , and Carver and crew get pretty good production values out of their small budget . The use of old scene transitions such as " wipes " and " iris shots " just add to the sense of fun . The final shot of the film - at the conclusion of the end credits - is one of the brightest and funniest that I've ever seen . " Big Bad Mama " is one hell of a fine B-movie , and eventually got itself a sequel 13 years later . Two trivia notes : 1 . Bill Paxton was set dresser on this film , and 2 . Shatner , Skerritt , and Prather were all in the film " The Devil's Rain " a year later .
" I see dead people ! "	Cole Sear ( Haley Joel Osment , in his breakthrough performance ) is a VERY troubled child who is surrounded by ghosts - actual ghosts - day in and day out . Into this mess steps acclaimed child psychiatrist Malcolm Crowe ( Bruce Willis ) who makes it his life's mission to help Cole come to terms with this existence . What else can I say but FANTASTIC ? I'm not surprised this would end up on a top 250 list . This is an intelligent , brilliantly subtle piece of work that demands more than one viewing ( for some people , anyway ) . It's spooky without resorting to special effects for its impact , and the four ( five , actually - don't forget Donnie Wahlberg's compelling and upsetting cameo ) lead performances are top-notch . Osment is particularly noteworthy , delivering quite a mature performance for a child his age . If you're like me , you'll want to watch it again just to note the clues left throughout the film that indicate what the film's ultimate surprise will be ( I wouldn't DREAM of giving it away - I'm not stupid ! ) . Writer-director M . Night Shyamalan certainly succeeded in his goal - he did create a " cultural phenomenon " that does " get under the skin " . This is the kind of film I think people would definitely remember . Worthy of a rating . ( If you like this film , I would also recommend Stir of Echoes ( starring Kevin Bacon ) , which does share some similarities in plot . )
Great predecessor to 1994's " SPEED " !	Oscar " Manny " Manheim ( Jon Voight ) , a brutal lifelong criminal , escapes from a remote Alaskan prison with an annoying , talkative tag-along ( Eric Roberts ) and hops a train that goes on a long , dangerous , out-of-control ride when the engineer drops dead of a heart attack and falls off the train . Rebecca De Mornay plays a young train employee who shares their hopeless situation ( she was asleep on the train when the heart attack happened ) and John P . Ryan is the associate warden of the prison who is deadly determined to bring Manny down - no matter what he has to do . One of the best action thrillers that I've ever seen ! This is a gripping and compelling and , yes , thrilling movie that never lets up . It has all these nail-biting scenes and a superb performance by Voight . It has good photography and a good script ( to that end , it is a refreshing change of pace from action movies that revel in their stupidity ) . You can't really go wrong with this movie - it even has a good villain , well performed by Ryan . Ranken ( Ryan ) and Manny really do make for good adversaries . It is a long movie but it did manage to hold my attention . Features a memorable scene where Ranken forces railroad employee Frank Barstow's ( Kyle T . Heffner ) head into a toilet bowl AFTER HE HAS JUST PEED IN IT . How humiliating is that ! The screenplay was co-written by real-life criminal-turned-author Edward Bunker ( based on a screenplay by legendary Japanese film-maker Akira Kurosawa ) , who appears in the movie as " Jonah " . Look for future film tough guys Danny Trejo ( whom I know best from his roles in Robert Rodriguez movies ) and Tommy " Tiny " Lister Jr . in their film debuts . ! !
Wonderful perennial holiday movie .	Most people know this story by now , but I'll just sum it up briefly here : it's a story of one old man's redemption on Christmas eve in 19th century London , thanks to the intervention of several ghostly visitors . Intelligent , emotionally rewarding picture with nothing but the utmost respect for the source material . Every role receives a worthy performance , with leading actor Alastair Sim in the role he'll probably always be most remembered for . " A Christmas Carol " ( or " Scrooge " , as it is also known ) is subtle and has atmosphere to spare . It's hard to watch and not be entertained , although I appreciated the subtitle option on my DVD because sometimes I couldn't understand what the actors were saying . Perhaps most indicative of this picture's simple ability to tell a good story and hold viewer interest is that it holds up after repeat viewings . I must confess , I only just watched it in its entirety for the first time tonight , but I enjoyed the heck out of it . Perfect if you want to get your family together for a quiet evening of holiday movie viewing . Over a half century later , " A Christmas Carol " is still working its little magic .
One of Douglas's and Duvall's finest hours .	Bill Foster ( Michael Douglas ) , a . k . a . " D-Fens " , the moniker on his personalized license plate , is a seriously stressed out individual who simply snaps one morning and wanders all over L . A . , striking out at the people who infuriate him the most . Meanwhile , Martin Prendergast ( Robert Duvall ) , who is just about to retire from the robbery division of the L . A . P . D . , picks up his trail . Despite the more disturbing aspects of Douglas's incendiary character , the key to my thorough involvement in this motion picture was a fundamental ability to relate to him on some level . Who among us has NOT had a day where we ready to just explode and take out our anger on the dozens of things that anger us each and every day ? Douglas creates one of his more interesting film characters , portraying him believably , not as a raving lunatic , but as a genuinely repressed human being that has merely been pushed to the breaking point . The film belongs just as much to Duvall , who can pretty much own any part that he plays - here he is just as believable as Douglas as an ordinary Joe type cop who has had to deal with his wife's ( Tuesday Weld ) instability for quite some time . Rachel Ticotin is appealing in a supporting role as Prendergast's loyal colleague , and Frederic Forrest thoroughly repugnant as a bigoted Neo-Nazi surplus store owner who is due for a comeuppance . Other familiar faces can be seen in brief but vivid turns . Despite the film's length , director Joel Schumacher actually keeps things pretty taut , with no intrusive subplots or digressions . The film is compelling throughout , with a slow and uneasy start and a good finale . Written by character actor Ebbe Roe Smith , who appears as the irate motorist on the freeway .
I loved it !	Unrepentant , foul , sleazy grind-house filth from the 1980's has Linda Blair as a high school student , Brenda , leader of a tight-knit group of friends . They tangle with a truly repulsive gang of male toughs and in retaliation , they target her innocent , deaf-mute sister Heather ( an adorable Linnea Quigley ) and gang-rape her . After Heather is hospitalized , Brenda vows to get even . Now this is trash , and trash of the highest order . It's so true to itself and so unabashedly wallows in sleaze to rate as a must-see for exploitation fans . Director Danny Steinmann delivers first-rate sordid thrills ; it's so visceral and intense and involving that it had me simply riveted to the screen . Ample female nudity is a highlight ( check out Blairs ' bathtub scene ) , as is the raw and unflinching violence . The loud rock soundtrack is perfect accompaniment . It's even rather funny at times ; the doodling on the anatomical chart was hysterical . It's so much fun to watch Blair strut her stuff . The repugnant , monstrous male gang members - Sal Landi , Scott Mayer , Johnny Venocur as the only one with something resembling a conscience , and especially Robert Dryer as seedy psychotic Jake - make for deliciously heinous villains . John Vernons ' role as the ( surprise , surprise ) grouchy , take no B . S . from anybody principal is disappointingly small , but at least it's amusing to watch him lecture Blair and then make lewd comments about her attractiveness . The best part is the inevitable revenge spree , as Blair doles out sadistic justice to the creeps , with Jake naturally saved for last . This is one of the best films of its kind that I've seen ; it's quite nice that it's now gotten a heck of a DVD presentation .
Early Sam Peckinpah film is a real delight .	This superb Western stars two legendary icons of the genre in Randolph Scott and Joel McCrea . McCrea is Steve Judd , aging former lawman who agrees to take a job transporting gold from a mining community to a small town . He acquires two traveling partners , first his old friend Gil Westrum ( Scott ) , who brings along brash youth Heck Longtree ( Ron Starr ) . Along the way , they meet young bride-to-be Elsa Knudsen ( Mariette Hartley ) , who runs away from overbearing , deeply religious father Joshua ( R . G . Armstrong ) . This second feature from Peckinpah is an elegant , methodically paced film . The script , credited to N . B . Stone , Jr . , is at once wistful ( Steve and Gil often reminisce about days gone by ) , humorous ( McCrea rides into town as a carnival gets under way , and acts as if the crowd has gathered for him ) , sentimental , and poetic , with some wonderful lines . It shares the theme of The Old West giving way to the new ( with Steve and Gil representing a sense of wisdom and experience , and Heck representing naive recklessness ) with other Westerns from the period , and comes across as a completely genuine , heartfelt ode to that era . It also explores that timeless subject of whether people can be truly either good or evil , and the fact that in general they fall somewhere in between . And , ultimately , it's a very nice tale of re-affirming one's basic sense of decency and honor . Lucien Ballards ' cinematography of the California wilderness is majestic , as is George Bassman's music . The two aged stars absolutely shine in superior roles ( sadly , this was Scott's final film ) with Starr and Hartley doing fine in representing the younger generation . Edgar Buchanan has a real standout scene as a judge , who despite his drunkenness , manages to deliver a very good speech about marriage and human nature . Armstrong is excellent as always . The antagonistic Hammond brothers are played by a great bunch of performers , including James Drury , John Davis Chandler , John Anderson , and future Peckinpah repertory players Warren Oates ( who's particularly funny as the comedy relief among them ) and L . Q . Jones . " Ride the High Country " tells a moving and effective tale in a fairly compact running time of 94 minutes . It's now motivated me to watch the other films in its celebrated director's repertoire as soon as possible .
A lot of fun .	Although not all feature film versions of classic TV series have worked out , this enjoyable dark comedy from 1991 is one of the rare few to really entertain . Gomez ( Raul Julia ) and Morticia ( Anjelica Huston ) are the parental units of a macabre and twisted yet ultimately loving family that also includes their children Wednesday ( Christina Ricci , in one of her earliest roles ) and Pugsley ( Jimmy Workman - whatever happened to him ? ) , Granny ( Judith Malina ) and their associates Lurch ( Carel Struycken ) and Thing ( Christopher Hart's hand ) . Their slimy attorney Tully ( a well-cast Dan Hedaya ) makes the acquaintance of Gordon ( Christopher Lloyd ) , the brutish son of the harridan ( Elizabeth Wilson ) to whom Tully is in debt . Tully , after noticing the remarkable resemblance Gordon has to the Addams ' long-lost Uncle Fester , plants him in the household so that Gordon can attempt to plunder their fortune . This simple plot actually leads to a reasonably well-written movie with impressive design and effects , and lots of good laughs . The actors play their parts so well I can't help but be impressed . Although the world of the Addams family is the brainchild of Charles Addams , I also find it reminiscent of a Tim Burton-type imagination as well . One sequence that works quite well is when the Addams are forced from their home and forced to live in " the real world " . Thing even gets a job as a courier for Fed Ex ! I think that it's very entertaining and I don't think I'd notice the flaws if I placed it under a microscope . Good job , all around . " Are your girl scout cookies made from real girl scouts ? "
A low-key but tense Western-mystery .	Screen legend Spencer Tracy plays a veteran named John J . MacReedy , who no longer has the use of his left arm , and arrives in a tiny town named Black Rock months after World War II has ended . His business will take him no longer than 24 hours , but the locals still regard him with unbridled suspicion and hostility . Local character Reno Smith ( Robert Ryan ) , with the help of thugs like Hector ( Lee Marvin ) and Coley ( Ernest Borgnine ) , seems to be the one running things , and he's no help , although Doc Velie ( Walter Brennan ) provides at least one reasonable voice to the proceedings . A phenomenal cast delivers the goods in this effective little movie . It's a very well shot ( in CinemaScope by William C . Mellor ) and polished major studio ( in this case MGM ) movie done in an efficient B movie style , with an attention-grabbing title and tight and trim running time . It's not exactly hard to figure out the mystery , but director John Sturges still keeps the level of tension high as MacReedy encounters problems every step of the way . The remote setting works in ensuring MacReedy no place to run or hide . Marvin and Borgnine are excellent as the heavies ; the almost all-male cast are a fine bunch of rugged , virile men unencumbered by any sort of familial responsibilities . The lovely Anne Francis is the sole female presence , and doesn't play a very big part in the plot . Dazzling opening titles , Andre Previns ' music score , and an intelligent script ( Howard Breslins ' story " Bad Day at Hondo " was adapted by Don McGuire and written by Millard Kaufman ) are all assets . It deals with the need to overcome apathy and ultimately do the right thing , and is an effective condemnation of the racism of the times as well . This is a marvelous film worth seeking out .
A powerful and emotionally charged story .	Richard Beck ( Richard Crenna ) is a veteran police detective who has become hardened and cynical after his years of experience . One thing he particularly likes to do is go on " safaris " , or in other words hunting for criminals , even if he's technically off duty . During one of these safaris , he chases two criminals who end up getting the drop on him . The vicious thugs proceed to delight in humiliating him , and ultimately , sodomizing him . This is an eye-opener for Beck , who had himself never had much sympathy for rape victims . I'm not surprised to learn that Crenna won an Emmy for this performance . His work is exceptional , as he struggles to retain his dignity , and tries to uphold some macho ideal of being a man , especially a man who's a cop . Learning what rape victims go through forces him to get in touch with his emotions , and eventually develop a long-lost sense of compassion . Although handled with discretion , the shocking subject matter and matter-of-fact approach hit a nerve . Beck is spared nothing on the emotional journey that he will have to take , right down to the scorn expressed by his own father ( Pat Hingle ) for not putting up more of a fight . Crenna is incredibly well supported by Meredith Baxter Birney , Joanna Kerns ( interesting to see two of the more popular 80's TV moms in the same project ) , George Dzundza , and Jason Bernard . Nicholas Worth and M . C . Gainey are truly scary and repugnant as the villains . " The Rape of Richard Beck " ( available on DVD under the title " Deadly Justice " ) is an excellent film and is well worth seeking out .
" When are you going to let me out of this box ? "	Dr . Alex Harris ( Fritz Weaver ) has developed a creative artificial brain dubbed Proteus IV which can do its own thinking . Ultimately , it decides to trap Harris's poor wife Susan ( Julie Christie ) in their own home because Proteus has determined that she can give it what it desires most . This knockout 1977 science-fiction thriller is almost a two-character story , a battle of wills between the frightened and angry Susan and the coldly determined Proteus IV ( whose voice is provided by an uncredited Robert Vaughn ) . It's a strange , disquieting , fascinating little movie with a thoroughly engaging performance by Christie , exploring not only the idea of entrusting our lives to computers , but of also what it means to be human . The music and special effects are good , and the dialog is interesting . The screenplay is by Robert Jaffe and Roger O . Hirson , based on an early Dean Koontz novel , and the direction by Donald Cammell , who is sadly no longer with us . Weaver is good in his role , and it's cool to have Gerrit Graham ( " Phantom of the Paradise " , " Used Cars " , " C . H . U . D . II - Bud the Chud " ) on hand as Christie's would-be rescuer , but this is essentially Julie's show , and a good showcase for her indeed .
Delicious blend of humor and horror .	Gas from an ancient Army canister leaks into a medical supply warehouse and a nearby cemetery and unleashes a legion of living-dead ghouls . Originally conceived as a straight sequel to George Romero's original zombie movies , then re-worked with more humor , " The Return of the Living Dead " is great entertainment for the die-hard horror fan . It has an infectious , ghoulish spirit . An interesting cast is called upon to portray a variety of characters - more than the typical garden-variety teenage morons common to the 1980's horror film . The intriguing trio of reliable veterans in the three leads - Clu Gulager , James Karen , and Don Calfa - under-rated actors , all three of them - and the amusing young troupe of actors playing the fringe-dwelling punks / victims all work well together . The late Mark Venturini - as the character " Suicide " has a funny moment where he defends his get-up ( " This isn't a costume . It's a way of life . " ) Departing from usual zombie clichés , the creatures in this movie don't awkwardly lumber along - they run , they work together , and they ambush their victims . This makes for a more threatening situation for our heroes . " The Return of the Living Dead " is pure escapism and often hysterical farce . Watch as three characters try to dispatch a troublesome " yellow man " corpse . Whacking it in the head with a pick-ax doesn't work . Sawing off its head doesn't work . Cutting the rest of the body into pieces doesn't work . It's truly funny to watch this troupe of characters try to deal with a situation that ultimately snowballs way out of control . We even get a scene where a conversation with a zombie torso takes place . Yes , the zombie actually talks . This puts another new spin on the same old zombie formula . We actually find out why the zombies are so compelled to eat human brains . My favorite zombie of the movie is the foul , dripping " Tar Man " . Played by a performer named Allan Trautman , this thing is both hideous and hilarious . He walks ( or should I say shambles ) away with all of his scenes . This stylish and funny spoof is rollicking and entertaining throughout , although it does after a while start taking itself seriously instead of keeping up the jokes . I still love it - there are truly inspired moments , and it's a worthy addition to your DVD library if you enjoy zombie pictures . All in all , it's a fun picture to watch if you've got the stomach for this sort of movie . Interestingly enough , this was the film-making debut for top science-fiction screenwriter Dan O'Bannon ( of " Alien " fame ) , although he wouldn't direct again until 1992's " The Resurrected " .
My first Russ Meyer flick .	" Russ Meyer's ode to the violence in women " is a great camp and trash flick that posits the idea that sexual liberation and female empowerment does not always change women for the better . Our three antagonists - Varla ( Tura Satana ) , Rosie ( Haji ) , and Billie ( Lori Williams ) are go-go girls , hedonistic free spirits out for kicks . When Varla murders a young man , the three of them abduct his distraught girlfriend ( Sue Bernard ) . They then come to a remote homestead presided over by a lecherous father figure ( Stuart Lancaster ) with an animosity towards women . Varla's learned that he's got money stashed away somewhere , and is determined to get her hands on it . Sometimes comedic , sometimes melodramatic , the movie features three well-endowed main characters , especially Satana , who's practically busting out the entire time . These fine ladies sink their teeth into these juicy parts with reckless abandon . Satana dominates the entire film like a true force of nature . The film pounds along to an overbearing music score ( not to mention a groovy theme song ) ; it's flashy , trashy and at the least is certainly never boring . Highlights include the old man's brawny , mentally challenged son ( Dennis Busch ) , who's credited as " The Vegetable " , believe it or not , pinned against a wall by a car and successfully managing to keep it from crushing him ! It's as much a good story of male weakness as it is female aggression ; the old man is a great case in point as is his supposedly heroic son Kirk ( Paul Trinka ) ; even he is not immune to the wiles of the domineering Varla . It all takes place in some impressively desolate landscapes , with a strong sense of flair to the proceedings . It gets pretty brutal , too . It's full of some cool and memorable quotes . In addition to the leads , Bernard is especially enticing as the young , imperiled cutie who looks great in a bikini , and Lancaster is a hoot as the randy old man . " Faster , Pussycat ! Kill ! Kill ! " is a fun flick that serves up prime titillation and exploitation for 84 minutes of straight-up fun .
A potent , gripping , and ultimately powerful Western .	In this epic length and action packed Western from director Sam Peckinpah , a group of outlaws in the year 1913 realizes that a new world is arriving , one for which they won't really be suited . They decide upon a final heist before packing it in for good , while being determinedly tailed by hired guns representing a railroad . The notorious scenes of violence are impressive for any day and age , I feel , even if it can be said that films have gotten even more violent in the years since . It's all brilliantly edited for maximum impact ; the film's opening and climactic gunfights are some of the best that I've seen for any genre . The characters were a colorful bunch , and the lineup of actors - William Holden , Ernest Borgnine , Robert Ryan , Edmond O'Brien , Warren Oates , Ben Johnson , Strother Martin , L . Q . Jones , Albert Dekker , Jaime Sanchez , Bo Hopkins , Emilio Fernandez , Alfonso Arau , and Dub Taylor - is quite impressive to take in . They're all excellent . The main characters may not be sympathetic for the most part , but they're not dishonest about it , either . They still have a code and will stand by it . What I liked were the two pairings - Oates and Johnson as the Gorch brothers and Martin and Jones as Coffer and T . C . It's as if the casting directors had a feel for how well they would work together , often as comedy relief . Ryan , I felt , was a real standout as the conflicted Thornton , forced into performing a task he's not looking forward to in order to maintain his freedom . Peckinpah certainly knows how to deliver action scenes , and is good with suspense as well . One of the most amusing touches was having an otherwise extremely tense scene thrown off kilter by singing in the street . The director takes his time telling the story , and it's always compelling . When the bunch see a car for the first time and hear talk of airplanes ( of course , they don't refer to them as such ) , they know they will have to say goodbye to the life they knew . The dialog is full of some sharp and memorable lines . An example I'll pick is : " Your word isn't important ! It's who you give it to that matters ! " . It's a great looking , flamboyant , and majestic film ; it just goes to show everyone , that if you're going to go down ( this can apply to the Old West as well as the men who inhabited it ) , why not go down in a blaze of glory ? Highly recommended .
" Here's to a new world of Gods and Monsters . "	This sequel to the original legendary Frankenstein film of 1931 begins with a prologue featuring Mary Shelley , Lord Byron , and Percy Shelley in which Byron marvels at how a person such as Mary could have conceived such a horrifying story as " Frankenstein " . Shortly , she informs them that the whole story doesn't end with the conclusion to the novel , and proceeds to bring them up to speed . . . Dr . Henry Frankenstein ( Colin Clive reprises the role ) now wants to leave his past behind him , but an old associate , the maniacal Dr . Pretorious ( delightfully extravagant Ernest Thesiger ) needs his help in realizing his own dream : the creation of a companion for the original Frankenstein monster , once again played by Boris Karloff for the maximum amount of both chills and sympathy . " Bride " works even better than the first movie because it's a real case of everything coming together in such a memorable fashion . Director James Whale was loathe to repeat himself but eventually caved in to the pressure of delivering a sequel ( as the first film had been a substantial enough financial success ) . However , he determined to do it on his terms . The film works so well for me because of its ability to balance scares and laughter . Sometimes the humor is wonderfully understated , as when Henry finds out that the Monster can now speak , and Pretorious utters , " There have been developments since he came to see me . " Sometimes the humor and horror go hand in hand , as when the Monster surprises the housekeeper Minnie ( Una O'Connor , in a scenery-chewing performance ) . The scene with blind hermit O . P . Heggie is absolutely wonderful . It switches from being funny to being very touching ( two lonely individuals finding each other and making a connection ) and back . Both Heggie and Karloff shine in this scene , and it's here that the Monster first starts to utter several words of dialog . The final creation scene is also quite memorable , with off-kilter camera angles and a nice reveal of the title character ( Elsa Lanchester plays both this role and Mary in the prologue ) . Franz Waxman delivers the highly effective music score with individual music themes for each character . Art director Charles D . Hall and cinematographer John Mescall both do excellent work in giving the film an eerie look . Thesiger actually manages to upstage Clive in creating a truly unforgettable movie madman . Valerie Hobson ( only 17 at the time ! ) is a lovely Elizabeth ( replacing Mae Clarke in the role ) , and other fine supporting performers include E . E . Clive and the inimitable Dwight Frye ( whose role would be scaled down before the final cut ) . Future stars Walter Brennan and John Carradine have uncredited bit parts ( as they'd done in " The Invisible Man " for director Whale ) . Although the Bride ultimately does not end up with a lot of screen time , she is now as indelibly etched in our minds as any of the male horror movie monsters of this period . This is a true classic and a recommended viewing for any fans of the genre .
Superb sci-fi .	Prominent 1950's sci-fi director Jack Arnold scores a bull's eye with this existential classic . Richard Matheson scripts , from his own novel , a plot about an ordinary man , Scott Carey ( Grant Williams ) who has not just his world but his whole perspective changed . He's on vacation on a boat when a strange mist drifts across the water and envelops him . When he gets back home , he finds that he is now decreasing in size . Williams ' odyssey is stunning . The film has special effects that are generally quite good and Arnold crafts a genuinely tense little thriller that remains riveting as it follows one lonely character across a basement that has now become a vast and forbidding landscape . The well-orchestrated thrills include a skirmish with the now giant house cat and a persistent spider . Scott has to now display a resourcefulness and resolve to adjust to his new existence . Scaling steps is now a major undertaking , for one thing . Another important highlight has Scott forming a bond with a gorgeous , kind-hearted midget ( April Kent ) who helps him to see things in a different way than before . The film displays a similar sensitivity throughout and a heavily philosophical bent . Ultimately , Scott's dilemma helps him to really be at one with the universe for once , and to no longer take for granted his position in it . Williams does a solid job in the lead , veering from despondency to resignation to determination and finally acceptance . He makes Scott's plight truly sympathetic and meaningful . Offering solid support are Randy Stuart and Paul Langton as his distraught wife and brother , and Raymond Bailey and William Schallert as concerned doctors . " The Incredible Shrinking Man " is one of those films that works because it's both smart and fun at the same time . Arnold balances those two elements very well and crafts a film that creates a feeling of hope and peace rather than despair . It would be hard to come away from this film unaffected . It's certainly one of the best films of Arnold's career .
An all-time horror classic .	In this legendary 1931 picture , the immortal Count Dracula ( played by the equally immortal Bela Lugosi ) travels to London to lease Carfax Abbey , right next to the insane asylum run by Dr . Seward ( Herbert Bunston ) . In short order , he is haunting his new neighbors and biting the pretty young female ones on the neck . It is a pleasure to watch this horror film - it is spooky for one major reason : it has tons of atmosphere , which is further enhanced by the Philip Glass music score , newly added to the film after over 60 years . Just check out the shots where Dracula's face is in shadows and light is only falling on his eyes . Lugosi , at the peak of his career and years away from the tailspin it would ultimately take , plays the role with subtle charm and menace . Dwight Frye , as his human puppet Renfield , is also very entertaining . That look of goofy madness on Frye's face is priceless ! I often burst out laughing when he came on screen . Furthermore , a good showcase for Edward Van Sloan , as well , as the cool , calm and collected Professor Van Helsing , who is on to Dracula before anybody else in the film . If there is a weak leak in this chain of actors , I would have to say it is David Manners as John Harker - he's simply dull . Once seen , never forgotten .
Warriors , come out to play-ay . . . . .	Sometimes breathless , heavily stylized , and technically well-made memorable cult film from veteran screenwriter and director Walter Hill , in which a street gang is accused of the murder of a prominent gang leader and have to fight their way back to their home turf . " The Warriors " is a consistently entertaining film that was notorious in its day for drawing real-life gangs into the theaters to watch it who would then inexorably tangle with each other . " The Warriors " was unique for the way it depicted street gangs with very flamboyant and colorful gimmicks , including baseball bat wielding thugs wearing clown makeup ! This film is brought to life by a believable cast , including top-billed Michael Beck ( who has regrettably never become a big star ) , Deborah Van Valkenburgh , and prominent character actors James Remar and David Patrick Kelly , who would both work with Hill in future projects . The small , wiry , and nutty-looking Kelly is spot-on as the kind of weaselly little bad guy that I just love to hate , and which has sort of become his trademark . Look for early roles for people like the late Lynne Thigpen , as the deejay who acts as kind of a narrator , beefy former porn actor Sonny Landham , in what seems to be his first mainstream film ( he'd go on to play a variety of heavies in action movies in the 80's ) , cult actor Irwin Keyes ( " House of 1 , 000 Corpses " ) , the late martial artist and action movie actor Steve James , and future Oscar winner Mercedes Ruehl , in a memorable bit as the lady cop in the park who gets the drop on Remar . A rather remarkable little film that deserves more than one viewing , " The Warriors " , as many people know by now , is due to be remade for release next year . Note to the unaware : on the trivia page , it says that co-star Thomas G . Waites ( whom I know best as " Windows " from " The Thing " ) was dissatisfied with the script and requested that his name be removed from the credits - resulting in Hill changing the script to incorporate a nasty demise for Waites's character !
Just wonderful .	This enduring Christmas special for the always delightful Peanuts gang was very much a part of my childhood , and still resonates today . The saga of Charlie Brown despairing over the crass commercialization of the holidays and yearning to find the deeper meaning behind them makes for a great merging of wholesome , charming entertainment for the whole family and an always important message . 43 years later , this special has lost none of its appeal . The characters are as endearing as they ever were . Frequent breaks for comedy relief are still hilarious . The scenes of the kids dancing continue to crack me up , and Snoopy remains hilarious . Especially when he's mimicking Lucy . Vince Guaraldi's memorable jazzy score is supplemented by great songs like " Christmastime is Here " . And the story of Charlie Brown's chosen tree ( I loved how it magically grew once it was adorned with ornaments ) is just too cute . Best of all is of course Linus's monologue about the origin of the Christmas holiday . It's utterly unforgettable and I would be happy to share this with my niece and nephew and introduce them to one of the best animated seasonal classics ever made .
An intelligent and spooky sci-fi classic .	A very well done drama about aliens who crash to Earth in the California desert . Sensing that the local human population is not to be trusted , these creatures hit upon the idea of abducting some of the locals and then assuming their identities so they can move about in town and obtain whatever they need in order to repair their ship . Writer and amateur astronomer John Putnam ( Richard Carlson ) is the hero and voice of reason in dealing with the creatures , who actually wish to avoid confrontation at all costs but will strike back with a vengeance if they are attacked . The picture hits the ground running in a big way : the spaceship hurtles right down towards the camera in a blaze of light , and the title comes up ( with all of the credits saved for the end ) . This sets up a chilling , moody , and atmospheric tale that makes good use of its rural locations . Directed with his typical efficiency by Jack Arnold , who of course went on to do other classics of the period like " Creature from the Black Lagoon " and " Tarantula " , the pictures ' plot is intriguing and is developed in a compelling way . The picture comments on the nature of people to fear and distrust anything that they don't understand , an always timely and relevant topic . The interesting look of these somewhat hideous monsters was kept under close wraps , and shots of them are used in a reasonably sparing manner , which was , I think , the right way to go . Monsters should never get too much screen time or they lose their effectiveness . The other interesting idea is to employ several creature P . O . V . shots , which wasn't as common a device then as it is now . Carlson , who would work with Arnold again on " Lagoon " , is a sympathetic and likable lead , with beautiful Barbara Rush as his love interest , Charles Drake as a typically skeptical and cynical lawman , and Joe Sawyer and Russell Johnson as victimized locals . Wonderfully creepy theremin-oriented music by an uncredited Henry Mancini , too . A solid , understated , and effective movie , " It Came from Outer Space " is among the best of its kind . Followed by the made-for-TV " It Came from Outer Space II " in the 90's , that was actually more of a remake , and apparently not a very good one at that . This version gets a from me .
Amazing , vivid film deserving of its loyal following .	Writer / director Matthew Bright does a fine job of giving the classic children's tale of " Little Red Riding Hood " a superbly gritty , unflinching , fascinatingly ugly modern rendering . Reese Witherspoon offers a remarkable performance as a far-from-innocent teen named Vanessa who's grown up under highly unappealing circumstances . Her mom ( Amanda Plummer ) is a hooker and her lecherous stepfather ( Michael T . Weiss ) couldn't care less . When these two extremely unappealing " guardians " are carted off to jail , Vanessa heads out on her own ( there is no way she's going in to one more foster home ) and ends up hitching a ride with Bob Wolverton ( an excellent Kiefer Sutherland ) , a professional man ( he's a child psychiatrist ) whose calm and reasonable demeanor masks a truly monstrous nature . Full of brilliant pitch black comedy , " Freeway " offers an extremely effective commentary on the dark side of life as it satirizes one uncomfortable topic - child prostitution , serial killers , pedophilia , et al - after another . It's one of those rare gems that actually manages to be both smart and visceral at the same time . Twisted yet highly provocative , it lets its blood and its profanity flow freely . It's refreshingly unpredictable ( offering an amusing twist on prison break sequences in movies , for one thing ) as it caroms from one incredible scene to another . It starts off great ( the opening credits sequence is ingenious ) and remains riveting all the way . It's rather a shame that Witherspoon doesn't get ( or take ) more roles like this . She creates a character who is compelling and who reveals a basic desire for stability and normalcy even after having been corrupted by the events of her life . She and Sutherland get a very energetic and toxic sort of chemistry going as their car ride progresses . The fine supporting cast , including Wolfgang Bodison and Dan Hedaya as the investigating detectives , Conchata Ferrell as Vanessa's parole officer , Alanna Ubach as fiery fellow prisoner Mesquita , Brooke Shields as Bob's oblivious wife , and Brittany Murphy as the mousy Rhonda , also helps quite a bit . Oliver Stone was one of the executive producers , with Danny Elfman supplying an appropriately off-kilter music score . It's an altogether gripping film with not one dull moment .
Truly memorable and moving science-fiction .	Friendly and timid alien botanist is stranded on planet Earth and is befriended by ten-year-old boy ( Henry Thomas ) who becomes so attached to the visitor that he begins to feel everything that the creature is feeling . While the alien is being sought out by stereotypically ignorant government agents , Elliott ( Thomas ) helps the little guy out by setting up an improvised communication device in the forest that will send a distress signal to his home planet . There's a reason why this movie is so enduringly popular and successful : you would have to be a very hard , unemotional person not to feel SOMETHING watching this movie . It tugs at the heartstrings effectively without doing so in an overly saccharine manner . Endearing and sympathetic performances by everybody , including E . T . " himself " . John Williams offers up yet another of his immediately unforgettable scores , and the creature effects team bring E . T . to convincing " life " . ( Incredibly enough , I've heard for the longest time that actress Debra Winger contributed to E . T . ' s vocal performance . ) Followed by an unnecessary re-release twenty years later with improved effects , additional scenes , and altered footage . I for one was impressed with the film as it was and didn't think it needed any re-tooling . Oh well , I guess you're always going to have instances where directors feel the need to " improve " their films , or turn it more into the kind of film they initially wanted to make . Universal released this around the same time that they released John Carpenter's " The Thing " and it's apparent from " E . T . " ' s success and " The Thing " ' s failure that audiences at the time preferred to see a family film with a friendly alien than an adult film with a hostile alien . This is definitely one blockbuster of a movie that DESERVED to be a blockbuster .
Very engaging cult comedy .	Paul and Mary Bland ( Paul Bartel and Mary Woronov ) are an uptight couple who need money - a lot of it - in order to finance their dream restaurant . They finally hit upon inspiration - after Paul accidentally kills an aggressively horny " swinger " who attempts to force himself on Mary , they take his money . They then realize that they can both rid the world of sexual degenerates and make money at the same time . They concoct a scam where they lure sexual deviants to their apartment with the promise of allowing them to live out their fetishes , then knocking them off in short order . Young punk Raoul ( Robert Beltran ) finds out what they're up to , and insinuates himself into their schemes , becoming determined to claim Mary for himself . The late Bartel and Woronov had been staples in New World pictures of the 70's - " Death Race 2000 " , " Cannonball ! " , " Rock ' n ' Roll High School " - and continue a solid working relationship here , maintaining an easy chemistry and delivering funny and likable performances . Bartel , also directing and co-writing ( with Richard Blackburn , creator of the early 70's horror film " Lemora : A Child's Tale of the Supernatural " , and who also co-stars here as James ) , serves up a very sly satirical skewering of sexual liberation , making fun of various sexual fetishes and fantasies - one customer ( Allan Rich ) dresses up as a Nazi , another ( Ed Begley , Jr . ) is a hippie , and another ( Dan Barrows ) gets off on acting like a child - and so on . It's also fun to see Woronovs ' natural sex appeal utilized as her character gets more in touch with that heretofore repressed aspect of her own personality . Beltran , in a breakthrough role , is equally animated and definitely holds his own against his more experienced co-stars . Other familiar faces in small roles include Buck Henry ( as the lecherous loan officer appropriately named " Mr . Leech " ) , Edie McClurg ( as the fur-wearing swinger ) , Hamilton Camp ( as the wine thief ) , and Billy Curtis ( as one of the Blands ' clients ) . John Paragon is particularly funny as the loudmouthed , aggressive sexshop owner . This picture is quite fun and amusing and ends on a deliciously dark-humored note , perfect punctuation on an offbeat little gem perfectly embodying Bartels ' own unique style . It definitely gets my recommendation . Be sure to look out for a brief John Landis walk-on .
It's got me thinking about candy , candy , candy , candy . . .	A great Garfield holiday celebration in which the beloved fat orange cat decides to go trick or treating with his dumb but good-hearted canine companion Odie . They end up far from their home and are pursued by pirates that have returned from the grave . Endearing as always , with funny moments and even spooky ones . . . it might be too spooky for the smaller children , but it is entertaining and it has some catchy songs . One funny moment is when Jon is carving up a pumpkin , Garfield comes up behind him , shocks him , and the pumpkin flies up in the air and lands on Jon's head . Binky the clown is also hilariously annoying ( the same actor did the voices of Jon and Binky ) . As a longtime fan of the strip , this is probably my second favorite of the TV specials , close behind the classic " A Garfield Christmas " . I recommend it to all Garfield fans !
Can you imagine not having any privacy at all ?	Will Smith plays Robert Dean , a successful Washington , D . C . attorney who is passed a tape by an old friend ( Jason Lee ) on the run ; it turns out that the tape secretly recorded a politically motivated murder and now the psychos who committed the crime start methodically ruining Dean's life in an effort to discredit him should he come forward with the evidence . Dean is ultimately forced to team up with Brill ( Gene Hackman ) , a lone-wolf operative who's helped him with some of his cases in the past . I love this movie , for one main reason : Once it gets going , it moves a mile a minute , with truly breathtaking chase scenes . It's reasonably intelligent , well-cast ( and well-acted , needless to say ) , and the central dilemma of the film - the complete invasion of our privacy by the government jerks who are supposed to be protecting us - is too scary to ignore . Try it and see if you like it ! It's a long movie , but it was made by skilled veterans who know how to create big-budget thrills and therefore doesn't seem as long as it is .
" Do you leave a light on after bedtime ? "	Nursing home resident Paul Edgecomb ( Dabbs Greer ) catches " Top Hat " , a 1930's musical with Fred Astaire , on TV and is overcome with emotion . Afterward , he explains himself to friend Elaine ( Eve Brent ) : he was a death row supervisor ( Tom Hanks ) in 1930's Louisiana , and made the acquaintance of a new prisoner , an enormous yet childlike man named John Coffey ( Michael Clarke Duncan ) who turns out to possess uncanny special powers . Powerful and genuinely affecting drama , a period prison piece like writer / director Frank Darabont's previous Stephen King adaptation , " The Shawshank Redemption " , but with a supernatural angle . It's an extremely respectful film version of the King novel , rich in emotion and very well made . The sets look great , the music score is wonderful , and the film holds my attention . That is no easy feat for such an incredibly long movie ( Three hours , nine minutes ) but these characters and their situations are so vivid that I don't really notice the time going by . Any examination I made of this movie would not be complete without a round of praise for a superior ensemble cast . Although Hanks is clearly the star , and does a typically solid job , everybody else gets to make an impression of their own . Duncan is absolutely heartfelt as Coffey , and Doug Hutchison and Sam Rockwell are noteworthy as the film's antagonists . Heck , even those mice used to play Mr . Jingles are very well trained ! As emotional as this film is , there's very welcome humor in some places , which certainly helps to give the tear ducts a rest . I liked the moonpie gag and Toot-Toot's ( Harry Dean Stanton ) line during an execution rehearsal when he's sitting in the chair . Some scenes may make some viewers squirm or object , like Del's ( Michael Jeter's ) execution gone awry , or the horrible fate of those two adorable little girls . That's just a little warning for the unfamiliar that this film does get intense at times . I have seen this before and it still affects me . Just speaking for myself , I think it's an incredible piece of work made with real vision and passion . Kudos to Mr . Darabont and I hope he maintains this level of quality in his work .
An absolutely fine and worthy horror film .	This 44 minute long movie is a respectful and remarkable H . P . Lovecraft adaptation . It centers on a Dr . Munoz ( veteran actor Jack Donner , in a tour-de-force performance ) , who is befriended by struggling writer Randolph Carter ( played by director Bryan Moore ) . Munoz , a gentle and wise type , has a tragedy in his past weighing heavily on his present and also a terminal affliction kept secret until the shattering conclusion . Moore went through a major struggle of his own getting his film made ( in time for an H . P . Lovecraft festival held in Portland ) but the end result is worth it . It's well realized on film : it's a somber and heartfelt tale and a worthwhile meditation on the human will to live . Its faithfulness to its source material is also well worth noting . Shot in grainy black and white ( which does suit the material ) and enhanced by excellent music , it's riveting throughout . It's also effectively restrained ; Lovecraft left the visuals to our imagination and the film-makers largely do the same here . I give this my strongest recommendation .
A winner of a movie , in every way .	Excellent thriller from 1974 about an incredibly prepared quartet of criminals , led by ' Mr . Blue ' ( Robert Shaw ) , who hijack a subway train and hold its conductor and 17 passengers hostage for $1 million in ransom money - to be delivered in just one hour . A phenomenal cast delivers the goods in a witty , clever , and thoroughly pumped up movie that never lets up . The pace is consistently intense , and the action is often loud and furious . Walter Matthau , as the heroic Lt . Garber , and Shaw as Blue , make for a classy and compulsively watchable pair of adversaries . Shaw's Mr . Blue is the kind of movie villain who always seems to have the upper hand , having thought everything out so well beforehand , and he's also the kind of guy who never is seen to lose his cool . Mr . Green's cohorts are played by the superb veterans Martin Balsam ( the ill-fated private detective from the original " Psycho " ) and Hector Elizondo . Earl Hindman , who would 17 years later catch my attention as the quirky yet wise neighbor Wilson on ' Home Improvement ' , is the fourth and youngest member of the team . An absolutely incredible lineup of familiar faces fills out the other roles : James Broderick ( Matthew's father ) as the motorman Doyle , Dick O'Neill as the hostile Frank Correll , as well as Jerry Stiller , Doris Roberts , Julius Harris , Tony Roberts , Lee Wallace , and Kenneth McMillan . In the tradition of other 1970's classics like " Serpico " and " Taxi Driver " , the movie captures the ambiance of 1970's era NYC very well . You just can't beat authentic location filming for this kind of story . Highlighted by an especially amusing ending , which ultimately pays off a running gag , present throughout , regarding one of the crooks . Exciting and well-made ; one of the high points of veteran director Joseph Sargent's career . Followed by a made-for-TV remake 24 years later .
Wholly deserving of its classic status .	A genuine item of pop culture if ever there was one , " Deliverance " is one of those films that continues to be effective to this day . Its influence and resonance are undeniable . With such highlights as the " Duelling Banjos " and " squeal like a pig " scenes , it's not something a viewer can easily forget . Its story ( based on the novel by James Dickey , who adapted it for the screen and also plays the role of Sheriff Bullard ) of four very urban types from Atlanta who embark on a canoe trip is the set-up for a thriller that is often harrowing , shocking , suspenseful , and even plausible . The four leads - Jon Voight , Burt Reynolds , and in their first film roles , Ned Beatty and Ronny Cox , excel as the men out of their element . Bill McKinney and Herbert " Cowboy " Coward , in now notorious roles , firmly cemented the common stereotype of degenerate backwoods creeps . They make for truly repellent screen villains . I was very impressed by the level of tension . Will the men be able to brave the rapids ? Will Ed ( Voight ) be able to scale that cliff wall ? And will the local authorities accept the survivors ' version of the truth ? Director John Boorman is always masterful at keeping the audience on the edge of their seats . It's overall a great achievement for everyone involved . Director Boormans ' son Charley ( later co-star of his dads ' film " The Emerald Forest " ) appears briefly as Voights ' son at the end of the film .
Thank God for movies like this . . .	Sometimes a really good movie can actually come out of Hollywood . . . Young lawyer Gavin Banek ( Ben Affleck ) and insurance agent Doyle Gipson ( Samuel L . Jackson ) have a traffic accident on a rainy day . Both men are in a tremendous hurry but only Doyle wants to handle things the proper , official way . Gavin gives him a blank cheque and drives off , but leaves a file crucial to a case of his in Doyle's possession . As the day progresses , the two men strike at each other , each one attempting to destroy the other guy's life . But these two are not self-serving villains - they are ordinary , troubled guys dealing with their own moral issues . Intelligent and provocative drama with a script that is actually interesting and excellent performances right across the board - yes , even Affleck ; I was really impressed with the guy for once ( of course , Jackson can do no wrong ) . This is a movie not about empty-headed thrills , but actual character development and story . The characters are compelling - not just the two main ones , but the others as well . I enjoyed " Changing Lanes " and will actually remember it - maybe not years from now , but certainly for a while . Written by Chap Taylor and Michael Tolkin , based on Taylor's story .
Classic 1960's horror movie !	Due to the radioactive fallout from a returning space probe , dead bodies are returning to " life " and stalking human prey , eating their victims once they catch up to them . A group of disparate people barricade themselves inside a farmhouse hoping to be rescued from these beings . I'm sure that at the time of its release , this classic , influential movie shocked and repulsed viewers . Time , and countless pale imitations , have taken some of its impact away , but it's still great viewing . The budget - which I can believe was very low - only serves to gives the movie an almost realistic feel . Acting is very sharp , especially from top-billed Duane Jones , cast in what must have been the first ( or one of the first ) instances of a horror movie having an African-American hero . The only sour note may be that the leading female character , played by Judith O'Dea , is unfortunately one-note - wimpy and useless . This movie is actually more genuinely spooky than many of the more glossier and explicit horror movies released since . In fact , in a similar fashion to Tobe Hooper's " The Texas Chain Saw Massacre " , the movie makes quite a good use out of a low budget , and it's entertaining throughout . Co-writer / director George A . Romero and co-writer John Russo have bit parts ; co-stars Karl Hardman ( who plays ' Harry Cooper ' ) and Russell Streiner ( who appears uncredited as ' Johnny ' ) were the movie's producers . Remade by Romero in 1990 ; followed by " Dawn of the Dead " in 1978 and " Day of the Dead " in 1985 and then a slew of " Return of the Living Dead " features !
A wonderfully visceral and gripping cult flick .	" Class of 1984 " is a highly memorable melodrama depicting a high school of the " future " overridden by violence and crime . Sadly , this premise , while far-out at the time , turned out to be all too prophetic . Perry King plays Andy Norris , the new music teacher at this high school . He's replacing a man named Goldstein who supposedly had an " accident " . Almost immediately , Andy is butting heads with the kingpin of this school , a snot-nosed and deranged under-age creep named Peter Stegman ( Timothy Van Patten ) . Andy refuses to be bullied by the young psychopath , and their war of wills reaches an inevitable breaking point when Stegman and his gang target Andy's pregnant wife ( Merrie Lynn Ross ) . Van Patten creates a very vivid villain who I had a lot of fun hating , but the real star of this movie is , for me , veteran Roddy McDowall . The " Planet of the Apes " series star is biology teacher Terry Corrigan , an embittered alcoholic despondent over the fact that he can't get his students to want to learn anything , and who is clearly just one step from a nervous breakdown . His highlight scene is the said breakdown , where he forces his students to answer biology questions at gunpoint . Canadian legend Al Waxman pops in from time to time as the detective who is basically powerless to appropriately punish these young miscreants . And Michael J . Fox ( billed here without the middle initial ) makes an early screen appearance as a dorky little wise-guy . Yes , this film is undeniably lurid and perverse trash . But it WORKS . The struggle between Andy and Stegman is too compelling to ignore , and the ultra-violent final battle had me on the edge of my seat , cheering on Andy as he handles things the Charles Bronson way . Co-star Ross has little to do . Essentially , she seems to function more as a plot device than as a character - as in the plot device that will conclusively drive Andy over the edge . The film is co-written with future film director Tom Holland , and features a song contribution by Alice Cooper ( " I Am The Future " ) . " Class of 1984 " is a great dose of 1980's trash with a nice side dish of social comment ; it's one of the finest films of its kind that I've ever seen . Note that if you check out the external reviews link , even Roger Ebert had to admit that he enjoyed it ! I certainly give it a hearty endorsement myself .
Superb period chiller .	Based on the novel " The Turn of the Screw " by Henry James ( and adapted for the screen by William Archibald and Truman Capote ) , " The Innocents " tells the story of Miss Giddens ( Deborah Kerr ) , the new governess at a country mansion , there to look after orphaned children Miles ( Martin Stephens ) and Flora ( Pamela Franklin ) . As Miss Giddens begins seeing mysterious apparitions , and puzzles over the increasingly bizarre behavior of the children , she tries to piece together this mystery while making sure that no harm comes to her young charges . An excellent example of a bygone era of film-making when terror could be derived from suggestion rather than anything implicit , " The Innocents " is a powerfully stark and forbidding movie . Director Jack Clayton and cinematographer Freddie Francis capture some great images on screen that go well with the ominous mood of the story . It might not appeal to some viewers with its steady and methodical pace , but it still has the ability to maintain a constant sense of unease and trepidation at what secrets may be revealed . Kerr sells it as well as anything else in the film . She delivers a wholly believable performance as a concerned and caring individual struggling to come to grips with inexplicable events , and definitely , successfully conveys a strong feeling of fear . Megs Jenkins is solid in support as the cagey housekeeper Ms . Grose , with Franklin and Stephens doing highly creditable work ( particularly for child actors ) as children who may not be as " innocent " as they certainly appear . There's also a very enjoyable cameo by Michael Redgrave at the outset as the uncle who freely admits to being too selfish to fulfill any sort of familial duties . Georges Aurics ' eerie music is used sparingly ; the soundtrack works just as well without music in creating tension . The house and countryside also convey a strong sense of keeping some sort of secret hidden . An emotionally effective character study as well as interesting psychological horror , " The Innocents " creeps along towards a memorable ending . It's the kind of film that gets under the skin and stays there .
Heartwarming tale from the inestimable Rankin-Bass team .	Re-telling of the origin of Christmas , from the perspective of an ostracized donkey named Nestor with abnormally long ears upon which he always trips . Cast out into the harsh winter one night , he makes the acquaintance of a cherub named Tilly who gives him the will to go on as well as making him aware of his destiny . Sweet , sentimental , simple little tale tugs at the heart strings so well it's hard to get through this without blubbering like a baby . But it's impossible to resist . The title character is endearing and the rich assortment of songs are quite catchy . It gets off to a heart breaking start but wraps things up perfectly with an upbeat , feel-good ending . As usual , the stop-motion animation is very cute and very well done . Narrated by singer Roger Miller , who gives voice to the character of Speiltoe . Brenda Vaccaro offers a cute vocal performance as Tilly , and legendary voice-over artist Paul Frees gets a chance to strut his stuff as the voices of Olaf and an unnamed , sleazy donkey trader . Somehow I'd never seen this particular Christmas special until now , but I think that it makes for perfect holiday viewing . It's nice that it remembers the true origin of the celebration of Christmas , and its messages of self-esteem and finding ones ' place in the world just enhance its appeal .
One fantastic movie !	H . I . " Hi " McDonnough ( Nicolas Cage ) is a repeat offender ( his favorite thing to do is rob convenience stores ) who falls in love with Edwina ( Holly Hunter ) , the cop who always takes his mug shots . He swears off his criminal ways , proposes , and they spend some happy time together before they realize that they can't have a child of their own . Hearing that " unpainted furniture " kingpin Nathan Arizona , Sr . ( Trey Wilson ) has just become father to a set of quintuplets , they figure to take one of the children and raise it as their own . What the heck , he's got more kids than he can handle , right ? " Raising Arizona " is an endearing , loopy , sometimes wild and frenetic oddball movie with entertaining and likable characters . The chase scenes are absolutely breathtaking . Watch them for those incredible camera movements ! The dialog is pretty funny at times , especially as spoken by this eclectic cast , also including John Goodman , William Forsythe , Sam McMurray , Frances McDormand , and Randall " Tex " Cobb as a repugnant motorcycle-riding bounty hunter . M . Emmet Walsh has an amusingly obnoxious cameo as a guy who won't shut up . This does have a little bit of everything : comedy , drama ( yes , this is also a movie with real heart , in spite of the film's generally offbeat approach ) , action , crime , and farce , all blended together to make a satisfying whole by film-making brothers Joel and Ethan Coen , a worthy follow-up to their memorable film noir tribute ( and debut ) , " Blood Simple " . " Raising Arizona " is an enjoyable experience all the way through . Highly recommended . Sadly , co-star Wilson only made a few more films before passing away in 1989 . His rants are among the funniest comedy moments in the film .
Troubling but very effective .	One of the better movies to come out of the 1980's , this based-on-fact movie tells the story of a disturbed high school student who murders his girlfriend , leaves her naked body on a river bank , and brags about it later to his friends . What is just as bad is their inability to FEEL anything about it . Disturbing but incredibly compelling look at aimless and apathetic kids who have no respect for their parents or any sort of authority , who seem almost doomed to live lives of rebellion and recklessness . This drama hits hard and is impossible to forget . The young cast does a creditable job - even Keanu Reeves , in one of his earliest roles , is better than usual . Of course , there's no reason for the character of Layne ( Crispin Glover ) to be as crazed and off-the-wall as he is , but that's just Glover being himself . Veteran Dennis Hopper has an especially good role as a loner who despite his own sordid past is saddened by the attitudes of this group of kids . I would like to point out the chilling performance by Daniel Roebuck as the young murderer ; he's an under-rated actor and aside from Hopper , his is probably the best performance in the film . I saw " River's Edge " for the first time a long time ago when it first started being shown on cable TV movie channels ; however , I didn't catch all of it ; I saw it in its entirety for the first time a number of years later , and now I've seen it again for what is probably the definitive time . Some potently affecting moments include Madeleine's ( Constance Forslund ) breakdown where she wails that maybe she should leave her children just like their worthless father did . I also liked the scenes where Matt ( Reeves ) faces off with his disturbed younger brother ( Joshua Miller ) and when the teacher , Mr . Burkewaite ( Jim Metzler ) deplores the fact that the girl has died and that none of his students seem to care . I will never forget this film , not as long as I live . It's too saddening for that .
A great film from the late director Robert Aldrich .	Both intelligent and gripping , this period action adventure ( it's set during the Great Depression ) stars two legendary Hollywood tough guys in roles that are perfect for them . Lee Marvin is solid as weary hobo A No . 1 , the object of much admiration from other hobos . He's pitted against nasty , maniacal train conductor Shack ( Ernest Borgnine ) , who's committed to prevent any hobo from ever hitching a ride on his train . A No . 1 determines that he will succeed where others have failed , but acquires an unwanted companion in Cigaret ( Keith Carradine ) , a cocky young upstart . Filmed in the wilds of Oregon , with lots of great scenery captured on film , the movie is a great ode to , as the theme song puts it , men and their machines . It's very much a man's world , and it's also a world where characters are known by nicknames and reputations . The ambitious script by Christopher Knopf incorporates such elements as the struggle of an outsider ( Marvin ) to stand tall against an establishment type ( Borgnine ) , as well as the action of the wiser old generation attempting to pass the torch to the next one . If only Cigaret weren't so brash ; the script also does a fine job of portraying the reckless naivety of youth . You'll notice that while watching , Aldrich and company are even paying tribute to the old days of Hollywood film-making , particularly silent comedy in the way that characters move . There's amusing use of old scene transitions such as the " wipe " . Marvin and Borgnine make for absolutely magnificent opponents ; Marvin's cunning is pitted against Borgnine's ferocity and they are both a great deal of fun to watch . Carradine holds his own against Marvin , believable every step of the way as he has to make the transition from cockiness to learning humility . But the two veteran stars make their antagonistic relationship pay off in a no-holds-barred brawl on the train that truly does look like the real thing . Frank DeVol contributes a marvelous score that is a great accompaniment to the majestic images on screen . And the exemplary supporting cast makes it even better : Charles Tyner , Malcolm Atterbury , Harry Caesar , Simon Oakland , Hal Baylor , Matt Clark , Elisha Cook Jr . , Liam Dunn , Sid Haig , John Steadman , and Vic Tayback . There's even an uncredited early career bit part for future star Lance Henriksen . It's a forceful , sinewy , and ultimately very rousing bit of entertainment . It makes its statements while also providing the audience with no-fooling-around , slam-bang entertainment . Even at two hours long , it never drags and is commanding from beginning to end .
A film that , for me , genuinely lived up to its reputation .	William Peter Blatty's classic story , written for the screen and produced by Blatty himself , in which average young girl Regan ( Linda Blair ) , daughter of movie actress Chris ( Ellen Burstyn ) , is possessed by The Devil . Father Karras ( Jason Miller ) , plagued with guilt over being absent at the time of his mother's death and suffering from a crisis of faith , joins with Father Merrin ( Max von Sydow ) to perform the exorcism . " The Exorcist " does succeed at one of director William Friedkin's intentions : it isn't just another horror film . Despite my knowledge of key scenes prior to actually , finally watching the film in its entirety , its ability to shock and disturb is still undeniable . I found it positively gut-wrenching , upsetting , and riveting every step of the way . The acting is impeccable in the major roles ; I thought both Burstyn and Miller did exceptional jobs . Blair is remarkable in a marvel of a breakthrough performance , particularly for a child . And von Sydow is so professional , so dignified , and so steadfast that one can see that his character really is the right man for this job . I've seen subsequent films where a character was dealing with demons both internal and external , but I've never seen it done so well and so memorably . I love the atmosphere of this piece , the convincing gross-out makeup effects ( as well as the quite believable aging makeup on von Sydow ) , the chilling music score , and that iconic image utilized for the poster . It's touching : although not a parent myself , I was very moved by Burstyn's believable performance as a mother afraid of losing her daughter and the seeming inability of anybody to do anything for her . That can be compared to Karras's own despondency over his feeling that he wasn't able to do anything for his mother . The approach to the story is quite realistic , too ; only after all other avenues have been exhausted does anybody permit the ideas of possession and exorcism to be considered . And Karras himself is naturally skeptical at first , until the evidence becomes too strong to deny . The film definitely begins with that feeling of the epic battle between good and evil , and is superb at placing it in a completely ordinary setting . It takes time telling the story and creates living , breathing , human characters that are innately compelling . Horror films really don't come any better than this .
" I don't know . . . I'm making this up as I go . "	A leading candidate for the best adventure movie of all time . Harrison Ford plays Indiana Jones , a professor of archaeology and treasure hunter who is hired by the United States government in the 1930's to find and retrieve the mythical " Ark of the Covenant " before the Nazis do . " Raiders of the Lost Ark " offers an almost non-stop variety of thrills and is able to sustain itself for its entire 116-minute running time . There's so much to make note of here - the flawless cast , the flashy special effects , the incredible sets , the efficient pacing of the film , the memorable scenes like the chamber full of snakes and the truck chase , etc . I won't go into great detail in describing it but suffice it to say that if you enjoy adventure movies you're advised to catch this 1980's blockbuster at least once . It's a great dose of escapist fun that still entertains almost thirty years later . This was one of my favorite movies growing up and is still a favorite today . It certainly made the combination of a fedora and a whip quite iconic . Followed by " Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom " , " Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade " , the TV series " The Young Indiana Jones Chronicles " , and " Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull " . Conceived by George Lucas and Steven Spielberg ( official story credit goes to Lucas and Philip Kaufman ) and scripted by Lawrence Kasdan .
A genuinely good time .	Entertaining mix of laughs and scares in this memorable hit from the 1980's that became an addition to pop culture in the process . Three scientists / researchers ( Bill Murray , Dan Aykroyd , Harold Ramis ) are kicked out of a university and decide to start their own business : catching and incarcerating a variety of ghosts and demons that are haunting NYC . It doesn't get better than this , folks . It has all the right ingredients : good laughs ( many of them deadpan one-liners spoken by Murray ) , good cast , good special effects , and a good pace . Maybe not totally politically correct in its inclusion of a " token black Ghostbuster " ( Ernie Hudson ) , although the sequel is actually more politically incorrect - - watch the scene ( in the sequel ) with Winston ( Hudson ) and the phantom subway train and you'll see what I mean . Also launched veteran actor William Atherton on a long , endless streak of playing pompous , vain , white-collar jerks ; his character , EPA rep Walter Peck , has got to be the first instance of an environmentalist being portrayed as a villain that I've seen . One of the 1980's best comedies ; I give it .
Good work !	In this intense thriller inspired by a non-fiction book by Wade Davis , Bill Pullman plays Dr . Dennis Alan , who travels to Haiti in search of a mysterious white powder that is supposed to have powers of resurrection . While there , he hooks up with attractive local doctor Marielle Duchamp ( Cathy Tyson ) and locks horns with nasty , psychotic villain Dargent Peytraud ( Zakes Mokae ) . For me , " The Serpent and the Rainbow " is one of those rare scary movies that thoroughly engrossed me . It's a heart-pounding , solidly acted ( particularly by Mokae ) , elaborate movie with lots of local flavor since the film-makers had the good sense to film it on location in Haiti . The atmosphere is so heavy that it's palpable . I would consider it to be one of the better Wes Craven pictures which I have seen . It's probably not one of his better known films - I think that most of them get kind of over-shadowed by the original " Nightmare on Elm Street " and the " Scream " trilogy . But I would suggest that interested viewers seek it out . It takes Dr . Alan and the viewer on an interesting if morbid journey .
Deserving of its status as a Christmas perennial .	Young Ralphie ( Peter Billingsley ) wants for Christmas nothing more than a Red Ryder 200-shot air rifle , and will resort to any means to get one . In between tussles with neighborhood bullies , trips to the department store to visit Santa , and interactions with his irascible but lovable Old Man ( Darren McGavin ) and warm , kindly Mother ( Melinda Dillon ) , he plots strategy to obtain the ultimate Christmas gift . Incredibly sweet yuletide story based on the writings of Jean Shepherd , who also provides delightfully flamboyant narration ( as the adult incarnation of the Ralphie character ) . Billingsley is memorably endearing as young Ralphie , enabling us to see the holiday season through an average childs ' eyes and hopefully bringing back a part of our own childhoods . Making a sharp detour from his much more chilling and ominous seasonal horror flick " Black Christmas " and the gleeful raunchiness of his hit comedy " Porky's " , director Bob Clark , co-writing the screenplay , takes us back to a highly impressive evocation of 1940's Midwest America . Chock full of wonderful humor ( adorable younger brother Randy ( Ian Petrella ) has some great moments , as does old pro McGavin ) and such delightful highlights as a triple dog dare gone wrong , the nasty neighborhood thug finally getting his comeuppance , the fight between the parents over a supposedly sexy but really rather tacky lamp , the uproarious visit to see Santa , and the discovery of " Chinese turkey " all help the film to find a permanent place in my heart . An ultimately warm and upbeat little winner , I first discovered this in a school class , not much longer after it had come out , and have remained a fan ever since . Its ability to tap into the magic of the holidays and the travails of childhood is something that I have never forgotten . The cast is superb right down the line and the film itself a true gem of its kind . Recommended family / holiday viewing .
A riveting horror classic .	Edward Parker ( Richard Arlen ) , the sole survivor of a shipwreck , ends up stuck on an uncharted , unnamed island that is the domain of one Dr . Moreau ( Charles Laughton ) . With the reluctant assistance of lackey Montgomery ( Arthur Hohl ) , Moreau has been playing God in the classic tradition of mad scientists everywhere : he is turning animals into humans , keeping his creations in check with a " House of Pain " and a strict set of laws . The 1930's horror era may have been mostly ruled by Universal , but this offering from Paramount , the first of a few screen adaptations of the H . G . Wells novel , is a most noteworthy exception . It retains a power to chill and captivate viewers all these years later . The overall effect of seeing these botched experiments , whom it is hard not to feel pity for , is a disturbing one indeed . Calling to my mind the later " King Kong " , the island setting offers a stark and foreboding atmosphere . Laughton , whose offbeat appearance he claims to have been inspired by his own dentist ( ! ) , dominates the proceedings with a flamboyantly wicked performance . Arlen is a little bland in comparison but it is all too easy to share his characters ' indignation at what he is witnessing . Hohl is solid in support as the weary Montgomery , with co-star Bela Lugosi completely unrecognizable ( save for that distinctive voice ) under heavy makeup as the " Sayer of the Law " , making the most of what is not really a very big part . Debuting Kathleen Burke , as Lota the Panther Woman , is quite striking . The grim and nasty finale must have indeed been very daring for the time in which this was made ; although nothing is technically shown , the fact of what is suggested makes for a memorable demise for our misguided antagonist . Not without some humor , " Island of Lost Souls " is still first and foremost a potent and eerie shocker that's still got plenty of juice 76 years after its theatrical release . Featuring makeup effects that are simply excellent , the feelings that this movie leaves me with are too powerful to ignore . One final word : this needs a DVD release , much sooner than later .
Wonderfully , gleefully outrageous horror comedy .	As great a depiction of unrelenting sleaze , squalor and gore as I've ever seen , " Street Trash " by writer / producer Roy Frumkes and director Jim Muro is delightfully wild stuff . A liquor store owner breaks through his wall and finds a box of decades-old booze ( dubbed " Tenafly Viper " ) . He puts it on his counter and sells it for $1 a bottle . Too bad he never checked the bottle for a warning : anyone who drinks this swill abruptly starts exploding into rainbow-colored muck . Among the many characters caught up in the hilarity that ensues are two drifter brothers , Fred ( Mike Lackey , also a makeup effects artist on the show ) and Kevin ( Mark Sferrazza ) who live in a tire hut at the back of an auto junkyard . Kevin's lusting after Wendy ( sexy Jane Arakawa , blessed with a great pair of legs ) , secretary to obese lowlife Frank ( Pat Ryan ) . Bad - beep detective Bill ( Bill Chepil ) is on the case and out to get wild-eyed psycho kingpin Bronson ( Vic Noto ) . Even a gangster , Nick Duran ( Tony Darrow ) and his smart-mouthed doorman ( James Lorinz ) end up getting involved before the movie's over . This movie definitely features the kind of stuff that you just can't get in mainstream cinema . This independent production has energy and flair and an attitude of just - go-for-it that is hard to resist . Its approach is seemingly to be as politically incorrect as possible , and on this level it's hysterical . The humor is incredibly dark and sick . One scene of sexual assault is played for laughs , but the major set piece , far and away , is the lowbrow farce of a poor sap's manhood getting away from him and his desperate attempts to retrieve it . Some of the camera work is reminiscent of " The Evil Dead " , and one gag that had me laughing out loud was placing a pair of glasses on the lens as an unlucky bespectacled victim gets manhandled . Great use of locations as well as stunning art direction-set decoration are impressive ; the multi-hued gore is tons of fun as well . The dialog is often priceless . And any film that incorporates elements such as necrophilia and gang rape truly is going all out . Standing out among the cast are Chepil , Ryan , Noto , and the incredible Nicole Potter ( she's so primitive and deranged it's hard not to watch everything she does ) . But Darrow and Lorinz get a good chemistry in their scenes together and are very funny . Darrow even sings the profanity-laced end credits ditty that seems like a takeoff on " My Way " . If you're intrigued instead of repulsed by all of this , then I'm sure you'll have a grand old time . " Street Trash " really lives up to its name .
Probably one of the best movies that I've seen lately .	This sad , potent movie tells the story of one Leland Fitzgerald ( Ryan Gosling ) , a genuinely depressed , introspective 15-year-old who commits a horrible crime that stuns everybody around him and which even Leland can't explain . Pearl Madison ( Don Cheadle ) , the teacher at his detention centre , finds him fascinating and attempts to reach out to him , although at first his motive is purely self-gain - to write a book about Leland and his life that Pearl hopes will get himself noticed . Nothing is clear-cut in this intelligent , passionate film from writer / director Matthew Ryan Hoge with no one-dimensional heroes or villains . These are real people with very real flaws , and a viewer may feel like they are really getting to know them . The cast is absolutely flawless , led by Gosling ( this is bound to be a performance that will really get him noticed ) and Cheadle . Even Chris Klein contributes substantially , and in time , he might even live down " Rollerball " if he gives more performances like the one he gives in this film . Guaranteed to move some viewers to tears , with effective rock soundtrack . I can't remember the last film I watched that was so attentive to the feelings and motivations of its characters , and which was just so well thought-out . Sherilyn Fenn is barely in this but her character does at least serve the purpose of giving Leland something to ponder throughout the movie . " You have to believe that life is more than the sum of its parts , kiddo . " Leland comes off as being sympathetic ( a tough thing to accomplish for a person who does , after all , kill a disadvantaged teen in cold blood ) and definitely wise beyond his years . He senses sadness all around him that other people seem to overlook . Hopefully , this film is a sign of great things to come from Hoge . And this was only his second film !
Manages to be very entertaining despite its flaws .	After years of searching , musician Harry Washello ( Anthony Edwards ) thinks he's found his dream girl in waitress Julie Peters ( Mare Winningham ) . However , one night he arrives at her diner at four in the morning after missing a date , and decides to pick up a ringing pay phone and hears a frightened rant by a hysterical missile silo worker who says that nuclear war has begun . As time runs out , and the streets fill up with insane , panicky mobs , Harry races to find Julie and get the hell out of L . A . While this movie gets a little too silly at times ( at one point Harry just walks into the street just randomly searching for a helicopter pilot ) I found " Miracle Mile " to be a harrowing , chilling , and at the same time fairly poignant ( in terms of the love story ) tale . I thought that it was well made and involving and I genuinely liked some of those performances ( Edwards and Winningham make for an appealing couple ) . One sequence that is particularly distressing is when Wilson ( Mykel T . Williamson ) , a young man who Harry runs into , sprays some cops with gasoline in order to make a getaway . . . and the female cop actually FIRES HER GUN , setting herself on fire - and then her partner , when he jumps on her in a misguided attempt to save her . Now that's bleak . Then again , the whole film is bleak . Like I said in my summary , there are some flaws , but I was so entertained that I felt I couldn't miss a second of it . Definitely compelling . Kelly Minter gets prominent billing in the opening credits but she's actually barely in the film , leading me to think that if she shot any other scenes than the ones seen in the film then they must have been scrapped . Same goes for her " role " in " The Lost Boys " : she's listed in the opening credits but never shows up on screen ( at least , not that I noticed ) . Film has a nice role for B-movie veteran John Agar , as Julie's grandfather . Lots of familiar faces in the supporting cast , including Denise Crosby , Kurt Fuller , Robert DoQui , Brian Thompson , Jenette Goldstein , Earl Boen , Alan Rosenberg , etc . Look quickly for Peter Berg as a musician in a concert scene .
An exciting and involving thriller from Don Coscarelli .	Sandwiched among his " Phantasm " series as well as " The Beastmaster " , Don Coscarelli crafted this nice little surprise that's worthy of either discovery or re-discovery . Six disparate people , either trying to better themselves or prove something to themselves , have signed up for a wilderness survival course taught by Hank ( Lance Henriksen , in a truly wonderful performance ) . At the same time , however , a different sort of survival school - leaning in a more militant direction - is underway , taught by gung-ho Jake ( Henriksens ' " Aliens " co-star Mark Rolston , well cast in his role and convincing ) . As Hanks ' students , including well-off bride-to-be Olivia ( Traci Lin ) , macho Jeff ( Dominic Hoffman ) , middle-aged Hal ( Ben Hammer ) , divorcée Cheryl ( Catherine Keener ) , comic relief Joey ( comedian Paul Provenza ) , and convict Gray ( Dermot Mulroney ) , trudge through the forest , they learn to rely on and respect one another , as they also learn to face and conquer their fears . Ultimately , the students in the other class take things too far and Hanks ' students have to face the most harrowing challenge of all . This is a stirring , involving , and exciting movie with characters one can actually like and root for . The actors are all believable and deliver very engaging performances . ( Even the antagonists in this movie are not merely one-dimensional , which I appreciated . ) The movie is well directed and has some fine sequences ; the scenes on the river are particularly well done . The scenery is beautiful and photographed very well , and the music by Fred Myrow and Christopher L . Stone is very effective . The movie takes time building but at no time is it ever less than interesting . I liked it a lot and I would definitely recommend it to others .
A fitting tribute to an under-appreciated talent .	This biography of the late , great character actor Joe Spinell - included as an extra on the DVD of " Maniac " - fills us in on the life of a remarkable individual . We don't get a lot of detail on his early years , but his career is given a respectable overview . Many interviewees - William Lustig , Robert Forster , Jason Miller , Frank Pesce , Richard Lynch , and Caroline Munro among them - share candid reminiscences about the man , who could be a gregarious , generous sweetheart at times and utterly confounding and frustrating at others . The interviewees have plenty of telling anecdotes to share with us , and it's all very interesting stuff . Most important about this piece is that it's a true warts-and-all documentary , and the events that led to his decline - drug and alcohol addiction , the devastating loss of his mother , whom he dearly loved - are not shied away from . Much vintage behind-the-scenes footage of Spinell is utilized to great effect , and the many shots of posters of films that he appeared in reminds us how extensive his career was . Special mention is made , naturally enough , of " Maniac " , what with Spinells ' incredible dedication to the project and memorable portrayal of its disturbed antagonist Frank Zito . Rest in peace , Joe Spinell , your contributions to film will never be forgotten - not by me .
Top-notch and memorable road movie .	Car delivery man Kowalski ( Barry Newman ) gets an assignment to drive a Dodge Challenger ( as much a star of this movie as the leading man ) from Denver to San Francisco . Kowalski makes a bet that he can do it in a mere 15 hours . As you can expect , despite the fact that he is in fact a good driver , the cops start taking after him . Kowalski does have a guide of sorts showing him the way - a blind DJ named Super Soul ( Cleavon Little ) . Now considered a cult classic , this relatively low-budget feature from 20th Century Fox was a big drive-in hit in its day , and resonates strongly because in addition to very competently staged vehicle stunts and pulse-pounding action scenes , it's clearly got something on its mind other than just entertaining the viewer . Kowalski the character is quite the curiosity . We get glimpses of his past in a number of brief flashback scenes , but the man himself is simply enigmatic . We can't be completely certain why he's doing this , although it's been surmised that he's seeking a sense of freedom , inner peace , and some sense of accomplishment . Barry Newman delivers a decent performance although I can't help but wonder what might have been had director Richard Sarafian been allowed to cast his own choice for the role - Gene Hackman . The little slices of rural Americana throughout the film allow for some very nice vignettes . Kowalski comes across several distinct personalities during his journey : old prospector Dean Jagger , nude motorcyclist Gilda Texter , helpful biker Timothy Scott , gay male hitch-hikers / hold-up men Anthony James and Arthur Malet , and most significantly , Super Soul ( Little delivers a flamboyant and memorable debut film appearance ) . One particularly striking sequence - which you have to watch the UK cut of the film in order to see - features British beauty Charlotte Rampling as an alluring female hitch-hiker who's as much of an enigma as Kowalski himself . The cast is solid right down the line , also including Paul Koslo and Robert Donner as persistent cops , and Severn Darden as J . Hovah . The surreal touches of the film are augmented by John Alonzos ' breathtaking cinematography of the various landscapes , and the lively rock soundtrack provides a perfect accompaniment . As a side note , Super Souls ' dialog has proved to be quotable enough that Axl Rose recited the DJ's one big speech in the song " Breakdown " on the GNR album " Use Your Illusion II " .
One of the all-time best adventures that Hollywood ever made .	Aggressive movie producer Carl Denham ( Robert Armstrong ) gets together a ship and crew to take him to an obscure island , bringing along his just-discovered leading lady , Ann Darrow ( Fay Wray ) . Intrigued by a legend known as " Kong " , Denham believes that he will come back with an experience for all time . And he finds his ticket to the big time with the discovery of the title creature , residing on the island with all manner of prehistoric reptiles . When he successfully manages to take Kong down , he brings him back to NYC for public display , leading to a fateful rampage and showdown atop the Empire State Building . Although other users have undoubtedly submitted more eloquent and detailed analyses of this classic film , I'll try my best to describe what makes it work so well . First off , it was clearly not like anything seen in film before . Willis O'Briens ' now legendary stop motion animation brings Kong to life ; considering that this was made three quarters of a century ago , the effects are quite simply remarkable . A nonstop spirit of high adventure and mythic quality pervades " King Kong " . Many memorable sequences , both on Skull Island and in Manhattan , make it a one-of-a-kind experience . The jungle atmosphere is incredibly strong and the picture truly takes me back to another time and place at all times . Wray makes for an incredibly appealing and alluring Ann Darrow ; in addition to being an impressive screamer , she certainly looks dazzling in that shredded dress . Armstrong is the true showman , a fast talker and grandiose pitchman with plenty of energy and ambition to go around . And Bruce Cabot , as Jack Driscoll , is a great macho man hero who discovers a softer side that he never knew he had when he falls in love with Ann . Frank Reicher is also absolutely solid as the ships ' captain . Well made in every respect , with Max Steiners ' wonderful music providing the perfect accompaniment , this is a movie milestone that demands at least one viewing . I can't possibly recommend it more .
Yes , I agree , it belongs in the top 100 !	Emotional and poignant Stephen King adaptation - one of the most respectful and memorable films of its kind - about four pre-teen boys who set off on their town to view the body of a boy killed in the country , many miles away . Allegorical story with an incredibly poised cast of youths ( Wil Wheaton , Corey Feldman , Jerry O'Connell , and the late , great River Phoenix ) who perfectly fit their characters and deliver remarkable performances . " Stand By Me " is alternately heartbreaking and hilarious , even sort of poetic at times . I can't watch this and not be affected by it - if you are like me , it may make you regret your own lost youth , as well . Although the settings are mostly rural , it does a decent job of taking the viewer back to a simpler , more innocent time . Kiefer Sutherland is effective as the town bully - King fans will know that his character turns up as an adult in another King novel , " Needful Things " . Well-selected rock songs of the period , and Jack Nitzsche's music score , work as well . The film doesn't meander at all , and for me , every scene worked . " Stand By Me " is simply a good , solid little drama . One major difference is that this film places King's fictional town of Castle Rock in Oregon instead of Maine .
An excellent drive-in classic .	Affable , easy-going brothers Wayne and Chris ( played by real-life brothers Jesse and Alan Vint , who display a natural chemistry ) are out to just enjoy life a little before enlisting in the army in this period thriller taking place in Louisiana in 1954 . They arrive in the town of Macon at the same time as deadly drifters Elisha ( James Gammon ) and Lon ( Timothy Scott ) . The two lowlifes murder the wife of local deputy Reed Morgan ( Max Baer , Jr . ) , but due to an unfortunate coincidence , Reed assumes Wayne and Chris to be guilty , and consumed with rage , immediately starts pursuing them . " Macon County Line " was a very big hit at drive-ins back in its day , and I can see why . It's a nice evocation of the South in the ' 50's , and director Richard Compton and crew keep it involving every step of the way . While there's time for some engaging humor ( Wayne and Chris are a genuinely likable pair of protagonists ) , they basically take their material seriously , not being afraid to make the film as dark ( in more than one way ) as possible . The chase finale in particular is very harrowing . It's very well photographed by Daniel Lacambre ; those opening titles appear over some gorgeous shots . Two delightful songs add to the mix : " Keep on Keepin ' On " and the wistful " Another Place , Another Time " . It was written by co-star Baer , Jr . as a means of distancing himself from his signature role as Jethro on ' The Beverly Hillbillies ' , and he does a creditable job in a multi-dimensional role . ( The " based on a true story " aspect was concocted to help draw in audiences , and it really worked . ) Cheryl Waters is appealing as Jenny , who joins Wayne and Chris on their ride , Gammon and Scott nicely intense and squirrelly as the criminals , and Geoffrey Lewis amusing as always in the role of Hamp . Leif Garrett ( as Baer , Jr . ' s son ) , Doodles Weaver , Sam Gilman , Joan Blackman , and Emile Meyer also appear . The success of " Macon County Line " ( filmed for about $225 , 000 , and grossing about $35 , 000 , 000 ) would inspire a raft of similar films , and it remains enjoyable today . It was followed by the sequel " Return to Macon County " ( featuring Nick Nolte in his first major role ) the following year .
Stupidity DOES have a habit of getting its way .	The small town of Lawrence , Kansas suffers the horrifying effects of a full-on nuclear strike in this landmark made-for-television movie . " The Day After " is very matter-of-fact : this is a glimpse of just what life might be like as people suffer the effects of nuclear fallout . The movie is grim , graphic , and disturbing . Many of the performances are thoughtful and compelling - even Steve Guttenberg shows us that he can deliver a fine performance if he is given a good role and a good script . The Cold War may be a thing of the past , but the simple message of this story is still timely . The first half moves rather slowly : characters are introduced and voice-overs tell us the events leading to the nuclear war . Then , just before the halfway point , the strike occurs , and for the rest of its running time we see the characters slowly getting sicker and sicker . I won't forget " The Day After " any time soon - and I will be hoping for the rest of my life that this day never , ever comes .
I had a blast watching this movie !	Stu Shepard ( Colin Farrell ) is a flashy , hotshot publicist who is pinned inside a public phone booth by a sniper ( voice of Kiefer Sutherland ) who's determined to teach Stu a lesson in decency . . . and honesty . I agree , this is one of the best thrillers to come out of Hollywood in a while . With this movie and " Tigerland " , director Joel Schumacher proves he can make more than flashy , empty entertainment ( " Batman & Robin " , anyone ? ) . Well-crafted , well-acted , even reasonably well-written , this movie moves at a good clip and actually held my attention . I didn't want to miss a thing . I only checked my watch once , and that was near the end . Short and sweet as well ( note the short running time ) , the film-makers wisely did not stretch this out any longer than it needed to be . Maybe not prime viewing for those who like their thrillers to be more action-oriented , but I loved it . I gave it a !
Excellent PG-rated horror thriller .	Young family in cozy suburban neighborhood is suddenly besieged by a hostile , dastardly spirit that drags the adorable youngest child into the netherworld . They call upon a para-psychological team , then a genuinely gifted clairvoyant , to help them get back the little girl . Admittedly , this ghost story may be technically directed by Tobe Hooper , but is clearly filtered through the sensibilities of writer / producer Steven Spielberg , making this more family friendly than it might have been otherwise . " Poltergeist " is a slick , mainstream movie with a heavy accent on flashy special effects , but it also presents us with a reasonably likable and sympathetic family . It's a long film but doesn't feel as long as it is , with segments that are consistent in holding my attention . Young Heather O'Rourke was a real find as the angelic little girl , and it's saddening to think that both she and co-star Dominique Dunne ( who plays the eldest child ) were lost at such young ages . The cast is very good , with standout work by JoBeth Williams as the wife and mother , Beatrice Straight as the head of the research team , and , of course , the one-of-a-kind Zelda Rubinstein as the clairvoyant . I'll also watch almost anything with James Karen in it - he's simply a great character actor . " Poltergeist " is decent entertainment that save for one ghoulish nightmare sequence should be acceptable fare for older children . I really liked it ; good work by all concerned .
" Huh , huh , huh , you said ' butt ' . . . "	Feature-length expansion of the popular 1990's animated MTV series . Beavis and Butt-head ( both voiced by series creator Mike Judge ) are two intelligence-impaired , hormone-crazed teenagers who embark on a cross-country trek after their beloved television set is stolen . They end up being hired by grubby criminal Muddy ( voice of Bruce Willis ) , who wants them to " do " his wife Dallas ( voice of Demi Moore ) . They accept , after misinterpreting the word " do " . This is a fine viewing experience for anybody who is already a B & B fan ( like me ) . Lots of laughs throughout , with inspired casting of legendary television lawman Robert Stack as ' Agent Flemming ' , who is determined to catch Beavis and Butt-head , thinking they are notorious criminals ( and who is also obsessed with body cavity searches ) . I love it , and I give it .
A very enjoyable film noir gem .	Gravel-voiced tough guy Charles McGraw plays Det . Sgt . Walter Brown , assigned to escort a gangsters ' widow , Mrs . Neall ( the striking Marie Windsor ) on a train ride to the trial in which she will testify against a crime ring . They don't even get to the train before hit men start stalking them . The train ride itself proves to be very eventful as Brown has to keep dodging the killers . The picture gets off to a truly great start indicative of the noir style , with very stylish and sinister use of shadow . It's therefore too bad that the rest of the picture is rather brightly lit , but the picture still succeeds admirably due to snappy dialog , bright repartee , and a full-steam-ahead pace . The movie clocks in at a tight and breezy running time of 72 minutes ; there's no filler and the tension is undeniable . The train makes for a nicely claustrophobic setting . McGraw makes for a great " hard boiled " and edgy hero , and it's hard to take ones ' eyes off the gorgeous Windsor . Fine support is provided by David Clarke , Gordon Gebert , Jacqueline White , Queenie Leonard , Peter Virgo , Don Beddoe , Paul Maxey , and Peter Brocco . Attention-getting and riveting from the start , this little movie is quite simply a great deal of fun .
This is my favorite Eddie Murphy movie .	Axel Foley ( Eddie Murphy ) is a sassy , streetwise Detroit detective who travels to Beverly Hills to track down the men who murdered his old friend ( James Russo ) . That's the simple setup for the most entertaining movie Eddie has ever done ( in my opinion ) . This is a rather easy picture to review because it's so successful it would be hard to find its flaws . It works in many areas : laughs , action , casting , chemistry between the actors , music , and execution . Axel Foley was truly one of the best roles Eddie's ever had , and the comic is at the top of his game , indulging in a little improvisation as Axel manufactures scams in order to manipulate the people around him and get what he needs . It truly is a pleasure to watch these performers work together . Harold Faltermeyer's electronic pop score is instantly catchy , and the songs are good too . Some bits , notably the ' bananas in the tailpipe ' , and the ' supercops ' story , are inspired . It's also worth it to see future comedy stars like Paul Reiser ( as an amusingly annoying colleague of Axel's ) , Bronson Pinchot ( stealing his two scenes as the art gallery employee Serge ) , and Damon Wayans ( with hair ! ) as the young guy who gives Axel the bananas . Why can't Eddie make movies like this nowadays ? For every good movie that he does ( the " Dr . Dolittle " movies , " Daddy Day Care " ) , his failures ( " Showtime " , " Pluto Nash " , " I Spy " ) set him back . To date , his first three movies ( " 48 HRS . " , " Trading Places " , and this one ) remain his best . Now that I've seen the special edition version of the videotape , I've learned that for a while the movie was intended to be a serious , non-jokey cop movie starring Sylvester Stallone ! How fortunate that it ended up the way that it did . If you want to see Eddie Murphy at his best , watch this and the other two movies that I mentioned . They are SO worth it .
Far and away one of the grandest adventures I've ever seen .	Incredible adaptation of the Jules Verne novel in which three heroes , roguish sailor Ned Land ( Kirk Douglas ) , professor Pierre Arronax ( Paul Lukas ) and Arronax's assistant Conseil ( Peter Lorre ) make the acquaintance of Captain Nemo ( James Mason ) , who has crafted a revolutionary submarine dubbed " The Nautilus " . Nemo has shunned conventional society to forge a life under the sea ; while Arronax is fascinated , Ned believes nothing good can come of this and plots escape . The very first fully live-action film from the Walt Disney empire , and one of the very first motion pictures to be shot in the then-innovative CinemaScope aspect ratio , which was much wider than it was tall , this has gone on to become a true classic of its type . So many fine elements combine to make it worthy : the exceptional cast , the impressive production design by Harper Goff and Roland E . Hill , the grandiose music score by Paul Smith , the intelligent script with its fair share of humorous as well as dramatic moments , and the memorable special effects ( both the special effects and art direction earned Oscars ) . Not only does Kirk Douglas have a whale of a time as the macho , fun-loving Ned , his " Whale of a Tale " musical number is a real show-stopper . It's quite the catchy tune . Mason is positively mesmerizing as the bitter and ambitious Nemo . Lukas is solid as Arronax , and Lorre endearing as Conseil . Esmeralda the seal is also hard to resist . Lavish , epic , and very rousing at times , what many people consider to be the highlight of the film - the attack of a giant squid during a raging storm - is my favorite sequence in the film as well . A career high point for director Richard Fleischer - incidentally , the son of cartoon pioneer Max Fleischer , who was at the time Mr . Disneys ' biggest rival - it has plenty to recommend it . It holds up very well today , and will always stand as one of my all-time favorite cinematic adventures . Be sure to watch for a very young Charles Grodin , in his film debut , as a drummer .
Chilling and un-nerving from beginning to end .	Cornelia Hilyard ( Olivia de Havilland ) , incapacitated by a broken hip , has an elevator installed in her house to get her from floor to floor . One day , the electricity fails , and she's stuck between floors , with just enough of a drop below her to be scary . Unfortunately , her incessant ringing of her alarm bell brings not help , but horror instead ; first , a wino drops by , stopping by later to bring along his lady friend , then a trio of young punks follow the wino back to the house and start terrorizing everybody else . A grim and intense shocker with something to say about the downward spiral of society , and the descent into apathy . It's a stagy yet undeniably gripping , suspenseful , and gut-wrenching tale with star de Havilland and then newcomer James Caan dominating the proceedings , although the cast is uniformly excellent ; actor and acting teacher Jeff Corey is appropriately pathetic and ultimately sympathetic as the decrepit wino who gets in over his head by attracting the attention of the three hedonistic young creeps . Ann Sothern , a great portrait of faded glamor in this as well as her role in Curtis Harringtons ' " The Killing Kind " also is noteworthy as a self-described " hustler " who pays a price for her participation in the lurid events . After a very striking title sequence , the mood is set for this tale right up front with the unappealing sight of a dead dog in the street right across from de Havillands ' home . The feeling of claustrophobia is well maintained by director Walter Grauman ; the elevator , with its bars across the front , does in fact take on the appearance of a cage . This must have been quite the revelation back in 1964 for a major release , from a major studio , that takes such a brutal , unflinching approach to such subject matter . In any event , it's a compelling story with an ultimately downbeat turn of events , as de Havilland is forced to consider the less appealing aspects of her own nature , and the implications of her actions . It's a thoroughly disconcerting movie that actually hits you across the face with a little bit of gore right at the end ( and that also must have shocked viewers back in 1964 ) . Look for Scatman Crothers and Richard Kiel in small roles .
This film belongs 100 % to Jodie Foster .	Innately compelling story , inspired by a real-life event , in which Sarah Tobias ( Jodie Foster ) is brutally - and I mean brutally - gang-raped in the game room of a bar . The deputy district attorney assigned to the case , Kathryn Murphy ( Kelly McGillis ) grudgingly agrees to have the scum who did it plead to a lesser charge when Sarah's character is called into question . Feeling betrayed , Sarah eventually convinces Kathryn to go further and prosecute the monsters in the bar who were actually cheering on the rapists . Disturbing and provocative movie with just the right ingredients to hit it out of the park . It's not purely manipulative and gets so much mileage out of Foster's Oscar-winning , sympathetic performance . I was rooting so much for Sarah that it hurt . In fact , she's so good that she makes most of her co-stars pale in comparison - including McGillis , although reliable character actor Leo Rossi is competently despicable as the primary instigator of the rape . I do give you fair warning : the climactic re-enactment of the actual rape is bound to disturb / disgust some people . It's also interesting to see Canadian TV personality Terry David Mulligan in a supporting performance as the detective who investigates the case . Films like this that can stimulate our emotions without being shameless about it are truly something we can all appreciate .
" Mops ? Must be a political statement . "	A defining picture for the notorious Troma studio , which has always specialized in tacky and schlocky B pictures , " The Toxic Avenger " is a fun and hysterical superhero spoof . In Tromaville , the toxic waste dumping capital of the nation , geeky simpleton Melvin ( Mark Torgl , also the movies ' script supervisor ) is the mop boy at a health club . After suffering through a humiliation prank , he dives out a window and lands right in a barrel of toxic waste , transforming him into the title character ( Mitchell Cohen ) , who has a compulsion to do good deeds and punish bad people . I had not seen this movie for a long time , but I never forgot it . It's the kind of picture I just don't forget . It's refreshing how the film-makers don't let anything like political correctness or good taste stop them from having a good time . It's a wild , nasty ride of a movie with splatter that is , if cheaply done , still pretty effective . Its sense of humor is positively great , too ; things are often exaggerated for comedic effect ( Gary Schneider is completely over-the-top and hilarious as Bozo ) , and the results are lots of good laughs . With an entertaining supporting performance by Pat Ryan , Jr . , as the corrupt mayor , lots of very cheesy and infectious pop tunes , and a brisk pace that holds up until the end , " The Toxic Avenger " rates as great entertainment . As cheap ' n ' cheesy B cinema goes , it's one of the most engaging pictures that I've ever seen . Followed by three sequels .
My first dose of Nazisploitation .	Ilsa ( Dyanne Thorne , in a deliciously wicked performance ) is the Kommandant at a concentration camp during WWII . She holds dominion over both male and female prisoners alike . Mostly , what she does is put them through torture - especially the females ; she aims to prove that females have a higher threshold for pain and will go to extreme lengths to prove her theory . Recommended to me as one of the defining movies of its genre , " Ilsa , She Wolf of the SS " is only for those who like their entertainment as vile and tasteless as ( in ) humanly possible . This movie wallows in sleaze , depravity and kinkiness for a hearty and hellish 96 minutes . It offers a non-stop and loving display of the female anatomy and liberal doses of sex are likewise included . The methods of torture are insidious and leave quite the impression . ( Joe Blasco contributes the very effective gore . ) A deeply committed cast plays this sadistic and nasty trash for all it's worth . The buxom Ms . Thorne makes for a memorable villainess , with able support from Gregory Knoph as Wolfe , the male prisoner who turns Ilsa on , Tony Mumolo as Mario , George " Buck " Flower ( billed as C . D . Lafleuer ) as Binz , and Richard Kennedy ( billed as Wolfgang Roehm ) as the visiting general whom , in an inspired bit of filth , is urinated on by Ilsa . With the generous servings of sex , violence , and general all-around brutality that it offers , this rates as one hell of an exploitation flick . I now pass on the recommendation for it to anyone with a healthy appetite for sleaze . It remains true to itself throughout and is a completely unpretentious good time , leading up to a reasonably rousing climax and a downbeat conclusion .
Gory and lively and just plain fun .	The patrons at the showing of a new horror film are in for a shock when some of them start metamorphosing into crazed , ugly demons . Could it be the influence of the movie , or the influence of the theatre itself , as theorized by a blind man ? Whatever the cause , the demons continue to increase in number , reducing the amount of potential survivors a bit at a time . Director Lamberto Bava had to inherit some of his legendary father Mario Bavas ' style ; here he shows that by crafting this in-your-face shocker with a steadily frenetic pace ( once it gets going ) , plenty of delicious , over-the-top gore , and some enjoyably silly acting . To that end , Tony the Pimp ( Bobby Rhodes ) takes top honors ; the guy is a riot . Very striking in a supporting role is the luscious Nicoletta Elmi as the usherette . The production design is impressive ; the same goes for the lighting , which is similar to the style of Dario Argento , not surprising since Argento was a writer and producer on this one . Future director Michele Soavi can be seen on screen as the silent man in black and as one of the characters in the film-within-the-film ; he was also the assistant director . Supplementing the excellent electronic score by Claudio Simonetti are an assortment of rock and pop songs by the likes of Rick Springfield , Motley Crue , Billy Idol , and Accept . This movie is a wild and rollicking ride ; it's fine entertainment of its kind , with a particularly amusing conclusion . Horror fans everywhere are sure to get a kick out of it . I know it left me with a smile on my face .
I like it just as much as the original .	Pretty faithful remake ( written by original NOTLD co-creator George A . Romero ) of the zombie classic in which seven people are trapped inside a farmhouse while a plague of the flesh-eating undead beings roam rural Pennsylvania . In updating this story , some changes are inevitably made : it's now in color , and the violence is more graphic and explicit . However , I actually enjoyed this a lot more than I would have expected to , given that remakes usually don't cut the mustard - especially when the original was just fine to begin with . Makeup effects veteran Tom Savini , making his directorial debut , does a respectable job . The movie moves at a decent pace and it's effectively gut-wrenching . The best change is that the heroine , played by stuntwoman / actress Patricia Tallman , becomes much tougher this time around . And genre superstar Tony Todd , who soon after was cast as " Candyman " , is super in the lead . Actually , this cast has no slackers . Harry Cooper may be as much of a worthless jerk as he was in the original , but actor Tom Towles is completely successful at making him a one-dimensional character instantly deserving of our ire . And because of an obviously bigger budget for improved makeup effects , the zombies look even better .
Classic vanguard film noir picture with wonderfully iconic performances .	Famed author Dashiell Hammett , a Pinkerton detective at one time , decided to try his hand at writing , and was clearly a believer in the phrase " write what you know " . His memorable hard-boiled detective story helped to bring in a new age , where mystery stories were gritty rather than sophisticated . Humphrey Bogart , after several years of supporting parts , many villainous , was catapulted to stardom in the role of the antiheroic private detective Samuel Spade . His latest client is Brigid O'Shaughnessy ( classy and lovely Mary Astor ) , who hires Spade and partner Miles Archer ( Jerome Cowan ) to tail an associate of hers . When Miles gets shot later that night , it starts a chain of events in which various characters start popping up , including Joel Cairo ( Peter Lorre , delightful as always ) and Kasper " The Fat Man " Gutman ( Sydney Greenstreet , who fills the screen in more ways than one ) , intending to obtain a valuable black statue of a falcon . Marking an incredible film-making debut for the young John Huston ( this project was suggested to him by none other than Howard Hawks ) , " The Maltese Falcon " of course would ultimately kick start the film noir genre in a major way . The dialog is quite rapid fire ( Bogart very much had a knack for delivering it in such a fashion ) , and with so much important information relayed throughout , it definitely requires a viewer to pay close attention . With the plot being so elaborate , it would need interesting and striking characters to deliver exposition without it getting boring , which the actors accomplish in grand style . Bogart , with his unmistakable voice and appearance , plays the part of Spade perfectly . He creates a complex character that may be flawed in some ways but still has a code of his own to live by and is not without some sense of self-regret . Lorre and Greenstreet are superb as the antagonists , with Astor playing her juicy part ( this lady really knows how to make a scene ) for all it's worth . Elisha Cook Jr . is also memorable as the put-upon hired gun , and Ward Bond , Barton MacLane , Gladys George , Lee Patrick comprise a solid supporting cast , with Huston's actor father Walter in a brief cameo as Capt . Jacobi . An absolute must for fans of the star , director , and genre , " The Maltese Falcon " is an enjoyable story of greed and duplicity . It's tough , stylish , and great fun .
Priceless !	Provided it takes a lot to offend you , you may get a real kick out of this delightfully ribald parody song / commercial . It's sung to the tune of the jingle for Slinky toys that many of us are familiar with . The family friendly lyrics , of course , are now replaced with some really choice , hilarious off-color lyrics that rhyme quite nicely . Viewable in both black & white and color , the video features this upbeat lady named Koralee Nickarz who really sells the whole thing quite well . It comes complete with the standard spoofing of those disclaimers common to so many commercials , spoken at a rapid-fire pace . It made me laugh heartily and does indeed have a high rewatchability factor . And the tune is as catchy as ever and may have a viewer humming it in their heads long after it's over . And hey , they're not just for women anymore .
Superbly eerie and intelligent sci-fi / horror .	Based on Jack Finney's serialized novel , this much lauded classic contains themes that can still carry into today . Even if the subtext read into it is centered on the political / social turmoil of the times , the ideas of xenophobia , paranoia , and a low-key evil that gets under your skin as it tries to eliminate your free will can always be powerful . The loss of our individuality , in essence our souls , is maybe one of the scariest things that we can imagine , as each of us becomes just one part of a mass collective . Dr . Miles Bennell ( Kevin McCarthy ) returns to his small California town of Santa Mira and finds out that various citizens are complaining that their loved ones are no longer themselves . But this is just the beginning . Miles and his sweetheart Becky ( Dana Wynter ) become witness to carbon copies of their own bodies materializing ( and conveniently disappearing ) . Eventually , Miles finds out that " seed pods " are hatching these copies of the locals while they sleep . More and more of the locals succumb until Miles and Becky are running for their lives , hoping to make it out of town and warn the rest of the world . There are scenes in this movie that can indelibly etch themselves in viewers ' minds . Who that has ever seen Kevin McCarthy frantically standing among busy traffic and screaming , " They're here already ! YOU'RE NEXT ! " will ever forget this ? The scene in the town square is also positively chilling as it illustrates a multitude of citizens quietly coming together . The seed pods are also a memorable plot point . This was an interesting contrast to alien invasion stories of the time ; there's no spaceships coming down to Earth in this one . This time , the menace is already taking place . The effects are nicely done without us having to see all the details . Don Siegel offers very efficient , taut , no-nonsense direction , working from a script by Daniel Mainwaring . Carmen Dragon's score is very ominous and the use of the locations is impeccable . The actors all do a tremendous job of selling the material . McCarthy and Wynter are great leads , with fine support by Larry Gates , King Donovan , and Carolyn Jones and good contributions in small parts by Virginia Christine , Jean Willes , Ralph Dumke , and Dabbs Greer . Be sure to look out for future director Sam Peckinpah ( dialog director on this picture ) , as Charlie the gas man . The picture loses just a little something in its longer cut ; Allied Artists didn't like the overall bleakness of the picture , and insisted on adding a prologue and epilogue featuring Whit Bissell and Richard Deacon as doctors trying to assess Bennell . This is an attempt to inject some sort of hope for the outcome , and while the picture still works very well , this addition takes away some of the chilling impact . This cut would get nine out of 10 from me . But no matter what , this movie is a true classic that genre fans ought to catch at least once . Remade in 1978 , in 1993 ( as " Body Snatchers " ) , and 2007 ( as " The Invasion " ) .
Once you see this , you may never forget it .	Ruggero Deodatos ' infamous film , quite possibly the most heavily banned film of all time , tells the story of Professor Harold Monroe ( Robert Kerman ) , who goes searching for some missing documentarians who disappeared in a forbidding section of the Amazonian forest called " The Green Inferno " . It goes without saying that this won't be for everybody . It's the kind of film experience that's so potent , so gut-wrenching , so visceral , and so upsetting that it works wonders on human emotions . Never before have I seen a film with such a raw , primal power . Played with an unflinching penchant for realism , it hits a nerve and keeps hitting it . As the plot progress and we learn that the documentarians were hardly innocent victims , we get a taste of commentary here , condemning the sensational side of journalism . The idea of " Who are the true savages ? " is brutally presented here ; this line is even paraphrased by Monroe at the end of the film . In fact , this portion of the film is definitely more compelling than the first , as we are obliged to watch the documentary footage shot , and get the whole story . As a study in human atrocity and ignorance , " Cannibal Holocaust " may present its statements in the most exploitative manner possible , but it's impossible to deny its effectiveness . One touch Deodato employs is to have Riz Ortolanis ' lovely theme music recur throughout the film , even during some of the nastiest moments , creating a very disconcerting effect . As is so often brought up , one major factor that will undoubtedly drive some viewers away are the actual animal deaths captured on film . It could easily be argued that Deodato went too far in this regard , but in any event it fits in with the nature of the rest of the film . In the end , " Cannibal Holocaust " is an exceptional example of shock cinema , and while it's always going to be much too hard for some people to stomach , there's no denying that it stands head and shoulders above many other films of its type . Filmed on location in Colombia and NYC , with interiors shot in Italy .
" Hail to the king , baby ! "	Ash ( Bruce Campbell ) , the main character from the two " Evil Dead " movies , has ended up in medieval times where he ends up on a quest to find the Book of the Dead ( a . k . a . ' Necronomicon ' ) . He's so dense he only remembers two of the three words that he has to say before grabbing the book , and he ultimately resurrects a legion of skeletal warriors , led by an ' evil ' version of himself . " Army of Darkness " is not as rooted in the horror genre as its predecessors - although it has its horrific elements - but it seems to be first and foremost a comedy - with lots of one-liners and slapstick . It's kind of a delirious combination of horror , comedy , fantasy , action , and adventure . Campbell is hilarious as Ash , firing off his one-liners as obnoxiously as possible and dominating the screen . Embeth Davidtz makes an appealing movie debut as ' Sheila ' , and several of co-writer / director Sam Raimi's colleagues ( including his brothers Theodore and Ivan ) have roles . " Army of Darkness " is for the most part very well paced and does not take many breathers . It relies on special effects a lot , but the effects are often entertaining . It is a slick major studio effort from Raimi that concludes this trilogy on a high note . Incidentally , just how many times has this been released and re-released on DVD ? ! ?
I love this movie !	Cheerful , mildly corrupt New Orleans detective Remy McSwain ( Dennis Quaid ) butts heads with uptight prosecutor Anne Osbourne ( Ellen Barkin ) while they both get involved in the case of two warring criminal families . Even though they have conflicting views of the law , they can't ignore the passion that they develop for each other . Stylish , steamy , sexy , suspenseful ( how's that for alliteration ? ) thriller with an irresistible cast ( Quaid is charm personified ) and some really great New Orleans flavor . . . the Cajun music is non-stop and helps immensely . This is a film that I watched a couple of times many years ago and while I watched it tonight it all came back to me . Even back then , I guess I recognized a good film when I saw one . The impressive supporting cast includes John Goodman , Lisa Jane Persky ( who did some other films for director Jim McBride ) , Charles Ludlam , Grace Zabriskie , Solomon Burke , Gailard Sartain , Marc Lawrence , and Judge Jim Garrison ( whose story was told in the movie " JFK " ) as himself . For me , it works on every level . If there are flaws to be found in this film , I didn't notice them .
